I want to add my remarks to those of previous speakers and congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your elevation to the Chair. I trust that you treat that honour as highly as I do the honour of being elected to this Parliament. It is an honour indeed for me to rise and speak tonight for the first time as the member for the electorate of Bendigo, particularly in the knowledge that I am the first Liberal Party member to be elected to represent it. I take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the people in my electorate who gave me their support and confidence. 
The electorate of Bendigo, with a population of about 52,000 and of which the city of Bendigo is the major centre, covers a large area of central Victoria. It includes the city of Castlemaine and towns such as Seymour, Kilmore, Gisborne and Heathcote, to name but a few. It is an area steeped in the history of this country, being famous initially for its gold fields. In fact, in view of the current price of gold, we may yet see another gold rush in Bendigo. At the present time the electorate of Bendigo is noted for its primary industry, its retail centres, its education centres and its tourist attractions. It also has a number of progressive secondary industries. For the interest of honourable members 1 point out that one of those secondary industries - a joinery firm from Bendigo - is pro viding the joinery for the new sections of Parliament House. Another firm, which is perhaps the most decentralised industry in Australia, is in fact competing with the big guns of air-conditioning in this country and providing a lot of the air-conditioning lor the large buildings being erected in the Australian Capital Territory. The city of Bendigo is also one of the cities that was selected by the Victorian Government for accelerated development. 
Among Bendigo's many notable features is the service it provides to the aged and infirm. It is to the problems facing this section that I wish to draw the attention of honourable members tonight. The services provided to the aged and the infirm are generally divided into 3 sections, namely, homes classed as incorporated registered and subsidised institutes, homes classed as registered homes and homes known as rest houses or homes or registered boarding houses for the frail aged. The problems I am about to direct to the attention of honourable members are, of course, related to all similar institutions throughout the country. Therefore the total problem is that much greater. 
Under the classification of registered incorporated and subsidised homes I shall refer for the point of discussion specifically to the home in Bendigo known as the Bendigo Home and Hospital for the Aged. This home, which is known throughout Victoria for the magnificent services it provides to the aged and the infirm in the area, is suffering an economic crisis, as are other homes under the categories I mentioned previously. This home has some 360 beds catering for 120 intensive care . patients and 240 infirm or ordinary patients. It also provides a day hospital service and a domiciliary patient service. At present this home receives an income from its 360 bed patients on the following basis: For the 120 intensive care patients it receives $82.90 a week each, which is made up of $15 a week from patients' pensions, $24.50 a week from the nursing home benefit, the $21 a week extra benefit provided for intensive care patients and the $22.40 a week new benefit that has been payable as from 1st January 1973; and for the 240 ordinary or infirm patients it receives $61.90 a week, which is made up of $15 a week from patients' pensions, $24.50 a week from the nursing home benefit and the $22.40 a week new benefit that has been payable as from 1st January 1973. Averaged over the total of 360 patients this means the home receives $69 a week a bed. 
The new benefit that has been applicable as from 1st January 1973 is, of course, the grant provided by the previous Government in the last Budget. It was designed to assist in meeting the difference between the income received per bed as against the actual cost per bed patient. As at 31st December 1972 the cost of providing beds was $75.30 a week. However, the home was able to meet the difference between the $69 average and this amount from the grants it received from the State Government and from the various funds raised by charitable organisations and auxiliaries. This situation applies throughout the Commonwealth and not just in Bendigo. 
Then came the crunch. Equal pay was granted to employees at the home. As a result of that decision the cost of providing a bed has now risen to $86.20 a week. The wages bill alone at the home will increase by $127,000 in a full year. To add to the problem the State grants which provided for the ancillary services, such as the day nursing homes and the domiciliary nursing services as well as some of the relief between the cost of the bed and the amount received, have been cut this year by $110,000. That is equal to $6 a week, which is the amount that actually made up most of the difference between the $69 a week and the $75 at that time. The home needs a further grant of at least $20 a week per bed to enable it to cover not only the cost per bed but to allow for the further added costs which must surely eventuate within the next few months. This home alone will need an extra $360,000 a year to keep up with present costs. It is going to cost millions of dollars for the Government to keep the homes throughout the country for the elderly, aged and infirm in a viable position. However, unless prompt action is taken by the Government, it will be economically impossible for these homes to continue to provide the service for the aged at its present level. 
Secondly, I refer to those homes classed as registered homes. Again for the point of discussion I shall refer specifically to the Bethlehem Home for the Aged in Bendigo. The Bethlehem Home provides accommodation and services for: both infirm and ambulant aged persons. It has. facilities for 124 patients; of which 27 are intensive care patients, 14 infirmary or ordinary patients and: the balance of 83 what are called ambulant patients. The home is subject to subsidy as a nursing home for the 41 intensive care and. infirmary patients only, but receives absolutely no subsidy for the ambulant patients. Certainly it is, as a registered home, entitled, to charge for these patients, but, like so many other homes, it can charge only a very reasonable or modest fee and many of its patients are in fact pensioners who can pay only the . maximum of $15 a week. As with the other type of homes, many of the patients who are listed as ambulant are in fact infirm or require intensive care. It is these patients to whom, I now refer. 
The subsidy the home receives for its intensive care and infirmary patients is the same as that provided to the Bendigo Home and Hospital for the Aged and similar- institutions. However, due to its receiving a subsidy for only one-third of its patients, it obviously has to rely very heavily on auxiliaries and public appeals from within the district to help offset the deficit which is incurred in providing this service to aged persons. The equal pay award has meant an increase of $1,000 a week in the wages bill of this home. Consequently the cost per bed has risen in proportion. As from 1st March the new domiciliary benefit will come into effect. This involves the payment of an amount of $14 a week to relatives for the care of a patient in the home of the relatives. It is another of the positive measures provided for the aged and the infirm by the previous Government. I am aware that this benefit will be payable only on the production of a certificate from a doctor and nurse. 
As I have mentioned previously, many patients classed as ambulant in registered homes are in fact incapable of providing for themselves and require constant medical and nursing care. Despite this the homes cannot claim a benefit of any sort I strongly urge the Government to consider this problem with a view to providing extra benefits to these homes to cover those patients for whom a doctor's certificate can be obtained, even though they may not be quite so ill as to be classified under the rules as intensive care or infirm cases but who definitely need special attention as they are in fact incapable of looking after themselves. Benefits should be paid to at least the same amount as that provided for under the nursing home benefit to infirm and ordinary patients. This would involve a total benefit of $46.90 a week, including the benefit payable from 1st January 1973. Any such benefit could, of course, be subject to the normal conditions of such benefits and possibly have the means test applied. Whilst there are probably many aged persons who will be able to benefit from this domiciliary grant, while being cared for in their own or a relatives home, it must be acknowledged that there are many who, for various reasons, will not be able to obtain such care and will need to look to the registered homes for help. 
I now refer to the so-called rest homes. Those running such homes do not like that name and prefer them to be classified as boarding homes for the frail aged. No subsidy is provided for this class of home because they are commercial enterprises. The proprietors receive no subsidies as the homes are not classified as nursing homes. However, because of the acute shortage of accommodation in the various registered homes for the aged, they do provide shelter and care for the excess number of aged persons. Doctors and hospitals alike have recommended these rest homes to some patients. I believe that these institutions, like the registered homes, should receive assistance in the form of a benefit for the care of those persons where there has been a recommendation by such doctors or hospitals. Perhaps they should qualify for $14 a week which is the amount being paid as a domiciliary benefit. It is our duty to provide the best care and attention for aged persons in Australia. I call upon this Government, which has as part of its platform a policy to provide for the aged- or so it says - to take immediate action to provide sufficient funds for the various purposes that I have mentioned. 
I mentioned previously that Bendigo was a city selected for accelerated development by the Victorian State Government. In its election campaign the Australian Labor Party promised, if elected, to develop the AlburyWodonga complex as the first step in its concept of urban and regional development. The Government already has initiated with the State governments of Victoria and New South Wales moves for this development. Perhaps I should congratulate it for that action. However, in Bendigo we have been assured by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  that Bendigo will be the subject of a feasibility study by the Commonwealth to determine its potential as a growth centre. 
Let me refer to an article by  Dr J.  Paterson, an adviser to the Government on regional development. He stated that due to the lack of adequate water in many country areas - I think he was referring specifically to the Albury-Wodonga complex programme - it would be difficult to implement planned regional development to the extent that was envisaged. I point out that in Bendigo no water restrictions were imposed during the recent drought. Bendigo has a water supply sufficient to meet any foreseeable needs of development. Therefore, I request the Government to give high priority to the announced feasibility study in relation to establishing Bendigo as a growth centre. The Bendigo City Council has planned an urban renewal scheme for the commercial centre of the city. 
I have written previously to both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to seek their support, firstly by visiting Bendigo to study at first hand the proposed plan and then by supplying the financial assistance which will be required for such development. Over the last 15 years the City Council has reclaimed at its own cost hundreds of acres of despoiled mining lands for residential, industrial and recreational purposes. It has made efforts to decentralise and to bring industries to Bendigo. The Council has studied the urban redevelopment that is occurring in many cities overseas and it believes that it is now time for such redevelopment to take place in Bendigo, bearing in mind that Bendigo is a particularly old city with a very old commercial centre. 
The problems associated with old buildings, small allotments, the lack of open spaces and the increase in the number of motor cars cannot continue to be ignored if there is to be a proper urban renewal in that city. Bendigo is prepared to work at development: It is ready for accelerated development. Therefore, I now ask the Government to honour its election promises of regional development by acting in a positive manner to assist this city with its plans for regional growth. 
Before talking on the subject 1 wish to deal with tonight I would like to refer to the remarks made by speakers on the Government side, firstly in relation to what was said by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  about the AEWL. I believe that it is significantly influenced by overseas shipping interests, which include container groups which are dedicated to the centralisation of transport. It seems very strange to me that the Minister for Labour is so unwilling to countermand a decision by overseas interests. Also 1 wish to refer to the remarks of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who talked about jobs for the boys. I draw his attention to one  Senator Armstrong,  who for some miserable pittance was appointed High Commissioner to London. I think we know also of a number of other cases of former members of this place being appointed to jobs in which they are far better financially rewarded than they were when they were members of Parliament. 
The subject on which 1 wish to speak tonight is the Labor Party's promises at the last election. I want to point out to the House how those promises are not turning out at the moment. The first promise I refer to concerns the Social Services Bill which was passed recently by this House. I refer to that section of the Bill which provides an increase in the unemployment benefit paid to young people between 16 and 21 years of age. The Government made a great point of mentioning that these junior people would be entitled to unemployment benefits if jobs were not suitable to their peculiar or particular vocation. I would draw the attention of the Minister for Labour, who is not in the chamber at the moment, to a comment he made in the 'West Australian' on 23rd November 1972 when he said that the Labor Party would introduce extensive retraining schemes for school leavers who could not find jobs. He went on to say that unemployment benefits would be suspended for those who refused to take part in such schemes. This seems to be a contradiction of the apparent policy that we heard propounded during the debate on the Social Services Bill. 
The Minister for Labour made another statement in which he said that the Labor Party would implement the recommendation that centres nominated for accelerated development would be recognised for telephone charging purposes as extensions to the metropolitan areas whereby rentals would be equated and calls between these places and the capitals charged as local calls. In view of the long tirade we have had from the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on the extreme loss factor of the Post Office and the enormous cost of putting one telephone somewhere in the country, it is hard to relate how the Labor Party will carry out its promise to the electors and cut its Post Office costs by introducing telephone facilities in country areas at the same rate as applies in metropolitan areas. I certainly would like to see this done as Bendigo is one of the areas that has been selected by the Victorian Government at least for accelerated development. A common rate for telephone calls would be a marvellous thing for decentralisation. This proposition is contained in one of the platforms of the Labor Party. The Party keeps saying that it will carry out this promise. But the Postmaster-General has indicated that he cannot possibly see how this can be done. I do not think we will see it happen. 1 turn now to the business of transport. Here we see some interesting things. The Labor Party made a promise that it would make grants to urban public transport authorities - I stress the word 'public' - on condition that they provide free off-peak travel. This subsidy was to be paid at the rate of $3 per annum per head of population in the 6 State capitals and in provincial centres which provide public transport. This promise was just another gimmick to get the voters in. Very few, if any, provincial centres have public transport; they now have private transport. I cannot see this Government providing private transport with any subsidy whatsoever. If it does, it will certainly be doing something positive for decentralisation. This Government is centralising, not decentralising. It has no intention of doing anything about decentralisation. Further proof that this is so is found in the promise that the Department of Transport will undertake a S276m program to improve public transport in Melbourne. The program has been outlined by the Victorian State Government to the Federal Bureau of Transport Economics. The Government has also promised to carry out a S324m program to improve Sydney's public transport system. What about decentralisation? What about spending a few of those millions of dollars in the country areas to encourage industries to establish themselves there. The Government should do something positive for Australia instead of airing a lot of unnecessary words which will not bring it credit when the next election is held. 
You have no hope of winning Bendigo. 
At least I do not have to get my instructions from a member of a union, as some of the honourable members on the other side of the House do. During the election campaign we made promises about decentralisation which we would have kept. But this Government has no intention whatsoever of encouraging any form of decentralisation. The points that I have made in respect of transport and telephone services prove that the actions of this Government will retard decentralisation. When its present term of office expires, the Government will find that the people of Australia, particularly the people of Victoria, will remove it from office because it will not have kept a fraction of the promises that the Labor Party put forward in the election campaign. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the losses, due to recent heavy rains and floods, suffered by tomato growers in northern Victoria who provide 66 per cent of the total Australian tomato crop. 
If so, can he say whether these losses are estimated to exceed $Im and represent 30 per cent of production. 
If the position is as stated, will the Government join with the State Government of Victoria in providing a grant, on a $1 for $1 basis, to provide assistance to these tomato growers. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. What information is in the possession of the Government regarding the operations of the Yugoslav secret political police known as the UDBA?' Will he place before the House material which will enable it to evaluate the generally held belief that the UDBA is an organising agent of terrorism both in Yugoslavia and in other countries? 
What agents of the UDBA are known to be active in Australia? Was the Yugoslav Prime Minister,  Mr Bijedic,  who recently visited Australia a high ranking member of the UDBA. having been in command of its operations in Bosnia and having been intimately associated with its headquarters? 
-I support the Bill. I have no desire to oppose its passage through this House unnecessarily. I will not oppose any legislation that will benefit our servicemen or ex-servicemen. This legislation which seeks to allow service pensioners the right to receive their pension in whatever country they wish to reside in commendable and in my opinion is no more than they deserve. The arrangement whereby any former resident at present living overseas  and  who returns to Australia may receive the Service pension, provided he is eligible and provided he resides in Australia for 12 months after returning, causes me a small doubt as this could possibly be loosely applied and this could lead to abuse of the benefit. I sincerely trust that the Government will watch closely this provision in the legislation to avoid any such possibility. The provision in this legislation which gives the ex-serviceman the same rights as would be available to him if he resided in Australia, as I have said before is to be commended, for this in some small part shows that the ex-serviceman is recognised for the service that he gave to this country and that this service is appreciated. As I have said, I have no desire to delay this Bill. Accordingly I support it. 
At the outset I wish to state that I applaud any efforts by the Government that will assist in overcoming the increasing housing problems particularly of those in need. However, there are a few points I should like to draw to the attention of the House. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  stated in his earlier announcement of this Bill that the S6m grant to the States would provide 1,500 homes. This would mean that each unit would cost 54,000. I am sure that the thinking of the Minister for Housing must have been astray or that he had his tongue in his cheek when he made that statement. The most economically designed and built home today would cost at least SI 0,000 without land. Homes built for SI 0,000 would provide the barest of requirements and would certainly only be of no more than 2-bedroom units. Victoria's share of this S6m will provide no more than 150 houses and flats, if they can be built for $10,000 each without garages. 
I would further draw the attention of the Minister for Housing to the current building situation. There have been many comments made about the need for homes and I agree with the comments. However, there is at present a building boom in this country and it is almost impossible not only to obtain builders to tender for contracts but also to obtain the basic materials with which to build the homes. At present, the Victorian Housing Commission has more than 200 homes out  to  tender throughout Victoria for which it is having a great deal of difficulty in obtaining satisfactory tenders. Housing commission work has always been known as the toughest field of competition in the building industry and when there is a building boom, as we are experiencing at the moment, the builders generally are not inclined to tender for housing commisson contracts because they are able  to  obtain plenty of work in private industry. The builders who normally tender for these jobs undertake to erect the homes at a very low price. This situation has developed over the years because of several factors. In the main, the bulk of the material for housing commission homes is supplied by the commission and the building contractor has only to purchase  a  minimum of materials, provide the labour and also the sub-trades to the contract. Because of the similarity in or sameness of design and size, plus the benefit of multiple site building, the builder is able to cut his costs. However, over the years the prices have been pruned to the extent that some contractors who undertake housing commission contracts have been unable to complete them. This, of course, creates further delays in the finishing of the homes that have been started and a delay in the supply of houses. 
I suggest that for suitable homes to be built a minimum cost of $12,000 per unit should be accepted. This is more than 3 times the amount the Minister for Housing has provided and it would allow for cost increases in materials and increases in the cost of labour. The $6m provided would allow for 500 homes to be built, not 1,500. 
Any move to reduce the housing need must be a good move but I would suggest that the Governent make available a further grant of some $l2m to the States to enable them to build the target of 1,500 homes that the Minister suggests. The Minister for Housing points out that a previous speaker said that $10,000 or $12,000 is too much, but $4,000 per home certainly would be far too little unless he decides  to  build one room shacks. 
Another point is that in Australia we have an enviable record of home ownership. 
Whilst we, on this side of the House, acknowledge the need for housing on a rental basis, I believe we should at all times encourage people to buy their homes if possible. It is an inescapable fact that persons who are buying their homes take a greater pride in the upkeep and maintenance not only of the houses but also of the outdoor surrounds, such as the gardens. I strongly request that the Minister for Housing consider the provision of further grants, but not limiting the expenditure to the building of rental homes only or, alternatively, if the home is to be built for rental purposes, consideration be given to providing the occupant with the right to purchase the home if he so desires. This would give the person renting the house the incentive to strive for his own home, and surely this is a worthy goal. 
Criticism has been levelled at the Victorian Minister for Housing by the Federal Minister for Housing, but I point out that in Victoria the Government, acting on the promise of the grant, has in fact started building the required houses for rent and flats for pensioners. Despite the problem of obtaining building contractors to commence all the building program, the State Government has been able to initiate the program and it should be able to expend this special grant of $1.5m before the required time of 30th June. In Victoria the Government allocated 5 houses to each of 20 towns which had existing building programs, and an extra 10 houses to existing building programs in Wodonga, Bendigo, Portland and the Latrobe Valley. All of these homes will be built for rental as required, and will be financed by existing State housing funds until the grant funds are finally allocated. The Victorian Minister for Housing has stated that at no time has Victoria indicated that it would extend this grant of Si. 5m or its share of it, to build houses and flats other than for rental. It is the Victorian Government's proud claim that all the houses that it has built have been provided for the needy over the last 35 years. 1 understand that the Premier of Victoria wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  on 6th February to advise him that Victoria would accept the $l-5m and pointed out the facts I have just mentioned. However, when the Minister for Housing met the Victorian Minister for Housing on 23rd February he apparently was not aware of this correspondence. Apparently there is the same lack of liaison in this Department as there is between the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
I trust that the Minister has realised that the States are willing to co-operate in this program to provide houses and flats for the needy on a rental basis. Further I am sure that he now realises that the problem of providing houses or homes at present does not hinge solely on the supply of money - not that I suggest for one moment that he should withdraw the grant - but also on the shortage of materials and labour. I understand that some large contracting firms are considering importing bricklayers to overcome their problems. This would cost them an estimated $300 per week. This further indicates the seriousness of the position as it stands at present and would, of course, increase the ultimate end cost of the product. This Bill will provide a small relief to the housing of the needy, and I conclude by once again appealing to the Minister to follow up this action with a further grant. 
asked the Minister for Civil 
Aviation, upon notice: 
Isit the intention of Trans-Australia Airlines to enter the accommodation industry. 
If so, does TAA intend to (a) build or (b) lease hotels/motels, or merely to act as booking agents for established companies. 
Is the Minister for Housing aware that owners of war service homes have been charged increased annual premiums for insurance on their homes? Can he inform the House what caused increased claims under war service homes insurance to rise from $520,000 in 1970-71 to over $lm in 1971-72? Are similar yearly increases in claims and premiums to be anticipated? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Are claimants for home nursing benefits required to fill in a form and have the form certified by a doctor and a registered nurse. 
If so, is it a fact that in many areas there is no domiciliary nursing service available to provide house calls and, therefore, claimants cannot complete the form. 
If the position is as stated, has bis Department provided an alternative procedure to enable persons in these areas to receive the benefits. 
Will he ensure that benefits are granted to such applicants where the doctor can give an assurance that the patient is in need of nursing care and can confirm that such service is not available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say whether an article published in the RSL magazine 'Mufti' prior to the general elections, indicated an undertaking by the Australian Labor Party that, when elected, it would recognise British ex-servicemen under the Repatriation Act. 
If so, does the Government propose to grant British ex-servicemen, now resident in Australia, the benefits of the Repatriation service in regard to (a) housing loans, (b) sickness benefits, and (c) pensions. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has his Department considered the one number system for emergency telephone services such as Fire, Police and Ambulance; if so, with what result. 
Can he say whether such a system has operated successfully in Great Britain. 
Would such a system save time in emergencies. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does advertising by his Department at present usually appear in major city newspapers rather than country newspapers. 
Are the costs of advertising in country newspapers much lower than in the larger city newspapers. 
Is any information available to him which would indicate that country people are more likely to take notice of advertisements appearing in their local newspaper. 
Will he ensure that post office advertising is spread to local newspapers in country areas. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Labor Party promise during its election campaign to allow pre-school fees as an income tax deduction. 
If so, will these fees be an allowable deduction for the financial year 1972-73. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that salaries of diplomatic staff in Phnom Penh have been reduced. 
If so, why have these persons been selected for this discriminating action. 
Will he take steps to have these salaries raised to the level of other diplomatic staff. 
Will he have a check made on the working conditions of the diplomatic staff in Phnom Penh which are reported as being badly neglected. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security concerns an anomaly which has arisen under the domiciliary nursing scheme. Recently the Department of Social Security rejected an application for this benefit by a person residing in the town of Maldon on the basis that the patient must be receiving nursing care by a registered general trained nurse on a regular basis involving multiple visits each week. The Department went on to say that some exceptions may be made when persons live in remote areas and that in this instance each individual case will be considered. It then went on to point out that a trained nurse did not visit this case and that Maldon is not considered to be a remote area. As Maldon has no registered nurse in the area and therefore the facility is not available, what is considered to be a remote area in this context? Will the Minister reconsider this case in the light of the fact that it would be one of many where nurses are not available to provide the service required? 
Before getting on to the substance of the points I wish to contribute to the debate on this legislation, I wish to make one or two comments on the remarks of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley-Brown).  Firstly, I share with him his concern for the welfare of the needy. I think we all do. The honourable member mentioned that 85 per cent of the homes built by State housing authorities with Commonwealth Government advances will be allocated to families whose income does not exceed a particular figure. He also claimed - unjustifiably - that this is the Government's innovation. I shall come back to that shortly. 
The honourable member seemed to be somewhat confused. He talked about home ownership not being available to certain sections of the community and mentioned that this legislation was designed to help overcome that situation. It is obvious that he has not read the terms of the legislation and that he did not listen to the remarks of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  on this subject. However he did mention the shortage of materials and of building labour. In this regard I repeat a statement which I made during the debate on an earlier Bill dealing with housing requirements. The situation is worsening. The materials shortage is so bad at present that it is not a question of getting a building contractor to build a home but of getting materials to enable its construction to proceed. Up until December last year materials were readily available in the building industry. Materials necessary for the erection of the frame of a home could readily be found. Possibly within 2 weeks of signing a contract the house construction could be under way. Today one may wait almost 2 months for the materials. This is one reason for the delay experienced by people in procuring homes. I only mention this in passing because it is obvious that the Minister must consider that it is not simply a matter of providing moneys to the States or to housing concerns; there is a tremendous shortage of tradesmen to erect homes and a tremendous shortage of materials. 
So great is the accelerated demand for housing that at present in the building construction field building contractors who normally tender for Housing Commission contracts are reluctant to be bothered tendering for these low priced home units. I do not say that in any derogatory sense of the contractors because such homes are built to a specified price and there is a great demand for high priced homes on which these people can make more money. The honourable member for Mitchell referred to the high cost of houses and flats in Sydney and Melbourne. A similar situation applies in Canberra where the release of land is controlled. Building contractors would rather tender for high priced building work. If they seek to engage in what is called 'spec' home building for sale, they have all the market they need. This is a factor which contributes to the delay in getting Housing Commission homes built. This applies particularly in my home State of Victoria. 
The Bill provides that 85 per cent of homes built by State authorities must be provided for low income families. What a magnificent provision this is for the Minister for Housing to include in the Bill. Last weekend we heard statements accusing the Victorian Government of stealing policies belonging to another party. Victoria, and I think all the other States, have provided homes for the needy for years - ever since the inception of Housing Commission type buildings. The Minister is only stealing their policies. The States have always provided this service, particularly in Victoria, so it is not this Government's innovation. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
I wish to make it perfectly clear,  Mr Speaker,  that despite this emphasis there is no thought that a person who has been allocated accommodation by a State housing authority will be asked to vacate his dwelling if his income subsequently rises above the needs test level. There is absolutely no truth in statements that have been made to this effect. 
I draw attention to that last sentence: 
There is absolutely no truth in statements that have been made to this effect. 
In an article which appeared in the 'Bulletin* of 10 February 1973 appears the following: 

 Mr Johnson also told the 'Bulletin' last week that the Commonwealth would insist that people should be moved out (he objected to the word 'evicted')- 1 think it is the same thing -  of Housing Commission homes when their incomes moved above the means test being used as the measure of 'need'. 
I wonder which statement of the Minister is the truth. However the States considered the Minister's attitude to evicting people from their homes as against the rights of the people of Australia. People have the right to choose where to live and certainly such decision should not be governed by the income they receive. Every Housing Commission in Australia, whether it be under the control of a Labor or Liberal government, offers its tenants the right to purchase as well as to rent homes. Home ownership is a deeply imbedded Australian aspiration. For years Australians have demanded the right to own their own homes. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  quoted the number of homes that were sold in Victoria when the tenants were given the opportunity by a Liberal government to buy them. The number purchased was a staggering figure, but many Housing Commission homes still are available for rental purposes. 
The Minister said that he, is not against home ownership. He said - 'this, of course, is a change from his previous statement - 'that he is prepared to allow up to 30 per cent of homes built by the Housing Commissions to be sold. In the article in the 'Bulletin' to which I referred earlier the Minister is reported to have said that the sale of new houses built by the. State housing authorities should be severely restricted, if not entirely prohibited. I think that is an indication of the Minister's thinking. Prior to the election in Victoria the Victorian Government announced, as part of its policy, that the $200 deposit previously needed for a person to buy his Housing Commission home would be no longer required and that people would be able to buy homes on a no-deposit basis. At present in Victoria for Housing Commission homes in the metropolitan area the rental charged is $12.30 a week and in country areas $1 1.80 a week. This would be well below the amount that the Minister has provided in the Bill as the maximum guideline. Throughout Australia rentals are certainly higher. The Minister mentioned that and I am glad that he did for I will refer to that aspect presently. The Victorian rental is well below the guidelines the Minister set out. The Minister said that a means test will be introduced in respect of rental housing. The Minister subsequently found to his dismay that again he was stealing the Victorian Government's thunder because it has applied a means test for years. 
Since the Liberal Government took office in Victoria in 1955, 33,780 housing units have been sold to persons allocated homes on the basis of the means test. These homes were sold not by direction of the Victorian Housing Commission but because the occupants wanted to buy them. As I mentioned earlier, a $200 deposit was required and the purchasers paid slightly more than the average rental to buy their homes. Payments to own homes are slightly higher, but not much higher, than the rental. If the rental is $12.30 a purchaser would possibly pay an extra $3 a week. This still is as low a payment as is available anywhere in Australia to purchase a home. Home buying is a saving whereas renting a home is a dead loss. Home buying provides a form of security that Australians desire. I believe that the States have a death benefit insurance scheme for persons purchasing their homes so that in the event of the decease of a breadwinner the purchase price outstanding is discharged and the family has no fear of losing the home. I said that more than 33,000 homes had been sold in Victoria. I believe that only a small percentage of those home purchasers had to revert to a rental basis of tenancy. 
At present Victoria has what is termed an average rental system. Earlier the Minister said that in some parts of Australia rentals are higher. I know this. Victorian rentals are kept at a minimum because of the way its government has planned for the needy people of that State. In Victoria rents for Housing Commission homes are graduated so that even though new homes cost more they are able to be provided for at a rental lower than the cost would justify. I understand that some of the other States charge rentals of up to $20 and $22 a week. The Minister has sug gested in his guidelines, to which I believe the States have agreed, that the rental should not exceed 22i per cent of the upper limit of the needs test. That would be approximately $20 a week. I understand that in New South Wales the economic rent system, as it is termed, is used and rentals average from $18 to $20 a week. If Victoria is forced, by this Government's dictatorial attitude, to adopt this economic rent system, rents in Victoria will rise from $11 or $12 a week to $20 a week. I am sure that the people of Victoria have indicated already their reaction to that type of attitude. 
Let me turn to a Labor election promise in relation to housing. We have heard very little about it since the election. The ALP promised tax deductibility for interest on housing loans. People earning $4,000 and less were to receive a 100 per cent deduction. 
Mir  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  I think that the honourable member is straying somewhat from the subject matter of the cognate debate. 
I take your point,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I accept your ruling. I think that the point was well made. The people are well aware that that Labor promise will not be honoured anyway. It is similar to Labor's promise about land prices. I am not straying from the subject here because the Minister himself mentioned that the Government was making great strides towards buying land, developing it and providing it at cost. So far we have seen very little of it. I believe that that promise will be like the one on interest payments; we will hear it and then we will not see very much done about it. An election promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech was: 
A Labor Government will request each State authority to estimate the funds needed to reduce the waiting period for houses to 12 months. 
The Government is not requesting the States to do anything; it is telling the States what to do. The Government has not reached any agreement with the States. It has had discussions with the States but it will not accept the States' request for a 50 per cent salability of homes. Why should the Government not allow the States to sell 50 per cent of the homes built with their allocations of money? It is the needy people who qualify for the homes. If they are given the opportunity to buy the homes and to be proud of their standard of living, why should this Government lower that standard of living? The Government is using blackmail tactics to force the States to agree. This Bill provides for the interest rate on loans to be 4 per cent. Unfortunately, the subtle suggestion has been made that, if the States do not wish to agree, they may have to find the money by other means. That would mean that they would have to pay at least  6i  per cent interest. As I said, there has been no agreement on the Bill as it is presented. The States have had no discussions on the Bill. As the honourable member for Herbert stated, the Bill was introduced into this House and it was only 2 days prior to that that some of the States received copies of the Bill. This is supposed to be a 7-way agreement. It is called 'The Housing Agreement'. It is not an agreement. It is a dictatorial, take-it-or-leave-it attitude. The Government is using blackmail tactics and threats, which is typical of the attitude of this Government towards the States. Last Saturday the Victorian electors censured this Government for its policy on housing. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many National Servicemen were there immediately prior to 1 December 1972. 
How many Regular Army personnel were there on 1 December 1972. 
How many National Service trainees transferred or joined as regular servicemen. 
asked the  Minister  for the Army, upon  notice: 
How many volunteer recruits have joined the Army since 2 December 1972. 
How many of these recruits have been posted to Puckapunyal. 
It is a fact that units are in a depleted state because of the loss of National Service Trainees;  if  so, what action is proposed by the Government to build up the number of servicemen at Puckapunyal. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
In view of increased building costs,is it proposed to increase the maximum subsidy for flats for aged people which is at present $5,200 per single unit and 66,000 per double unit 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the application of BCV-8 Bendigo to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for approval to install a translator station in the Puckapunyal-Seymour area. 
If so, can the Minister advise what action has been taken on this request to assist the people of this area to obtain better television reception. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
As a positive step by the Government towards encouraging industry to decentralise from major cities, has consideration been given to granting a concession on companies tax to decentralised industry. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Will he give an assurance that the Army Survey Regiment at Fortuna, 'Bendigo, will not be transferred from Bendigo to another area. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to concern expressed by the egg producers of Bendigo at the increasing cost of meat meal. 
Is it a fact that the cost of meat meal has increased by 50 per cent during the last six months, due to overseas demand. 
Will he consider placing controls on the export of this product with the object of assuring supply for local industry at a reasonable price. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Army establishment at Albert Park. Victoria, is to be closed. 
If so, will he, as a progressive step towards decentralisation, consider the relocation of this unit in Bendigo. 
I am in favour of the principle of the statement on the new cities program presented by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  Any move in the field of regional development must be applauded. Before going any further I would like to comment on the remarks made by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow).  He referred to increased pressure on the area of the Dandenong Ranges over the next few years. I have an undertaking from the Minister - it was reported in the Press - that he will buy back all the developed area in the Dandenong Ranges and return it to its natural state. So I can assure the honourable member for Holt that there will not be any such problem. I believe that the Minister was at a party when he made that statement; so we probably will not see very much action flowing from it. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, if you consider that the statement should be withdrawn, I withdraw it, because I have no proof that the Minister was at the party. 
I withdrew the statement,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Do I have to say it again? Whilst I am in favour of the principle of the regional development scheme and of the Albury-Wodonga complex, I am not really in favour of development of this area to .a city with a population of 300,000. I believe that the Albury-Wodonga complex is estimated to cost something in excess of $500m over about 25 years. This is an admirable plan, but in that time very little money will be spent anywhere else under the socalled decentralisation plan to which the Minister referred in his statement. 
Through the Budget a further $5m has been allocated for cities development. It is interesting to know that that $5m has in fact been allocated to Melbourne and Geelong. One could hardly call that decentralised regional development. There are other areas in Victoria that were selected a number of years ago for accelerated development. These cities have been geared by the State Government. The machinery has been provided. The planning has been done. They need the assist ance of the Australian Government in providing the funds. I ask the Minister whether he would not consider it better to have a target of perhaps 100,000 for Albury-Wodonga and to plan his spending so that there could be a better spread of the population away from the city areas in the various States. 

 Dr John Paterson, an expert in urban and regional development, is quoted in the Sydney edition of the 'Australian' of 5 February 1973 as saying that Albury will be too big as a 300,000 people complex. He said that he thought 100,000 people would be an adequate size.  His  reasons were that he was concerned that the Murray River water system might become over-committed. Adelaide, which has no other source of water, is increasing its demands from the system. He said that there were many virtues in having small inland towns which could serve as 'decent' centres and improve the quality of rural life. 
The Minister answered that by saying that the critics of the plans for supplying the Albury-Wodonga complex forget that the Dartmouth Dam now being built would supplement the water supply. We now have news for the Minister. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has stated that that will be stopped. It is supposed to be only a temporary stoppage, but like most things that are stopped it will take an awful lot of getting started again. It appears to me to be somewhat of a puzzle, if the Minister admits that the additional water from the Dartmouth Dam will be relied on to provide an adequate water supply not only for the Albury-Wodonga complex but right through to Adelaide, why the Government does not proceed with the Dartmouth Dam - provide the water first and then build the complex around it. 
There will be many problems associated with the building of a large area with a population of 300,000. Not the least of these problems will be the requirements of people. It is an established fact that there are problems when industry is enticed away from the metropolitan areas. We had an instance of this in Bendigo. An industry proposed to set up shop in Bendigo. It negotiated with the State Government. A factory site was provided. The Housing Commission was prepared to erect the necessary buildings. Everything that could be done to encourage that industry to go to Bendigo was done. The industry was very keen because it would have housing and everything else it needed. There was one thing that stopped the whole operation, which eventually fell through. That was that the people who worked in that industry in Melbourne did not want to leave the major city. I think the Minister will find that, despite all the planning that is done, there will be many people who will be reluctant to leave their homes and to be shifted out to another area. It will take a long time to build by natural growth a complex with a population of 300,000. The same will apply to the proposed plan to move some of the government departments to Albury-Wodonga. How often have we heard grizzles and complaints, when a government department has been shifted to centralised Canberra, to the effect that the employees do not want to leave Sydney or Melbourne? What will they say when they are asked to leave Canberra to go to a place such as Albury-Wodonga which will be in its infancy in relation to size? I think the Minister will find that that is one of the many difficulties that will not be lightly overcome. 
The 'Canberra Times' reported that a survey was taken which suggested that the residents of Albury-Wodonga are against growth and that 60 per cent of the people of Wodonga are against the Federal Government's proposal to turn the Albury-Wodonga complex into a city of 300,000. I realise that that would not worry the Government one iota. It does not matter 2 hoots what anybody says. What the Government wants to do, it will do. It will not consider the rights of the people who live in that area one bit. The Government plans to spend a lot of money buying land for leasing so that it can control the price of land. The Minister wants all the land to be owned by the Government to be leased out so that, as he fondly believes, prices will be controlled. 
Let us look at the Canberra prices and hold them up as an example of what can be done in this regard. I was talking to a person who was seeking to buy a home in Canberra, having moved here from Sydney. He checked up on the plan of a house through a company which builds in both Sydney and Canberra. In Canberra it would1 cost $3,000 more for an exact replica of the house he could have bought in Sydney. With building costs higher in places away from the major cities, how will the Government provide lower costs of housing? Many of the major products will have to be carted to those areas and therefore costs will be greatly inflated. 
I ask the Minister whether he is aware that the Chamber of Manufactures was very interested in assisting in the planning of the Albury-Wodonga complex. It offered its expertise. Such people obviously would be experienced and would have a great wealth of expertise to offer in the planning for industries in the proposed city. What happened? The Government was not interested in the request. It did not offer to take up the request from the Chamber to be in on the discussions. Of course the trade unions were there. Why not,  Mr Minister,  develop other areas to limits of 100,000 as has already been planned by the State governments so that we get a better spread and better development? The Minister has made a statement that a feasibility study will be made of the city of Bendigo and other cities in Victoria. No doubt feasibility studies will be carried out in other States as well. This is all very well, but the Prime Minister has warned us that we should not take any notice - or perhaps we should not take too much notice - of such feasibility studies because they may not come to fruition. Does this mean that we would be wasting time and money if we undertook the feasibility studies? I think so, and I do not think that this Government, as the Budget confirmed last week, has any intention of giving any real help in the regional development of our cities. The Government is interested only in the development of major cities. It is planning the Albury-Wodonga complex to form a major city between Sydney and Melbourne and has ignored again the development of the present major rural cities in New South Wales and Victoria. 
Whilst I said at the beginning of my speech that I was in favour of the principle of regional development, I am definitely not in favour of the total development of the Albury-Wodonga complex at the cost of other areas. I would like to see the Government rethink this program and plan thoroughly over the coming years and ensure that there is an equitable distribution of money. The Government has started the Albury-Wodonga complex. I believe that this is a very good move provided that the Government keeps it within range, as advised by the expert on the water problem. The Government should also provide money to the States so that they can proceed with their planned development which will help and benefit the spread of population throughout the States in general. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr. Kerin)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.12 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What education facilities are available to Aboriginal students. 
Is it compulsory for all Aboriginal children to register as students or is it only compulsory for adopted or urbanised Aboriginal children. 
It is a pity that attention had to be called to the state of the House so late in the speech of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  as I am sure that members of his own Party who were not here could have benefited by listening to him. They could have seen how good his act was. He certainly acted very well. If his act had been on television it would have been a most enjoyable show, but unfortunately those who had to listen would not have been able to understand because there was very little that was intelligent in his remarks on the subject with which he was dealing. 
The Minister for Immigration, who is so concerned about the future of this country, has made allowance for an intake of migrants this year on a similar basis to that of last year, but of course we have one extra allowance. This year possibly most of the migrants who come to Australia will be relatives and friends of those already here and there will be a very limited intake of tradesmen and professional people who are needed so badly at this time in this country. Perhaps if the Minister had devoted more time to that aspect and less to his television acting he would have done a better job. 
The Minister for Immigration commented that the rural industry was experiencing a boom time, lt certainly is, but that is an act of God, not an act of Gough. The seasons are such that the rural industry is certainly enjoying fruitful crops and a fruitful time in spite of the Government that is in power. This cities Budget - that is all I can call it - is definitely against rural industry. It has hit hard in every possible way at the rural community. Firstly, not very long ago this Government increased the levy on wool from 1.4 per cent to 2.4 per cent. It was stated at the time that the reasons for the increase were that we were having such a wonderful time in the wool industry and that prices were so good that the industry could afford it. The Government forgot the very tight times the wool industry had endured not so very long before. 
That was not all. That was not the only blow to let on that there were more blows coming in the Budget, but that was soon revealed by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  the other night. Firstly, he announced a meat export levy of lc per lb, and then the abolition of the investment allowance on manufacturing and primary industry plant. The abolition of the investment allowance affects manufacturing concerns as well as primary industry. The depreciation allowance on farm machinery was also abolished. As the House is aware, some capital expenditure in primary industry could be written off totally in the first year whereas other capital expenditure could be written off totally over 5 years. 
All the allowances I have mentioned were to the benefit of the farmer. They gave him an opportunity to establish his farm and they encouraged him to put up buildings and to buy buildings and to buy new machinery. These measures worked to the advantage not only of the farmer but also' of the industries which supplied materials for buildings, and also farm equipment. Many of these rural suppliers will notice an immediate and noticeable drop in their custom due to the body blow dealt by the Budget. Farmers, of course, will be reluctant now to rush in and buy new machinery or to put up new sheds. They will just make do for the time being knowing full well that this Government has not yet finished its purge against the country industries. 
Withdrawal of the allowances I have mentioned will greatly affect the suppliers of products to the rural industry. This could well mean a further increase in unemployment in country areas, cities and towns. Will the Government provide pay packets for 6 months to those people who will be forced out of employment because of the Budget measures? I wonder. There will be a few alternative jobs available in the country areas. However, perhaps the Government assumes that those who are out of work because of the Budget or because of the lack of business between suppliers and rural industry will be able to go to the city areas. After all, it was only the other night that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  said that there were plenty of jobs in the city areas. 
Before proceeding any further I draw attention to what the Budget did not provide to alleviate a very grave problem facing many areas in Australia, that is, hospitals for the aged. In the hospitals for the aged, as honourable members probably are aware, there are 3 types of patients. They are classified as intensive care, infirmary and ambulant patients. The intensive care and infirmary patients attract from the Government a subsidy for the hospital, but unfortunately the so-called ambulant patients do not attach any subsidy. There is a desperate need for such a subsidy. Why is it that the Government cannot see its way clear to provide to hospitals in respect of these patients the $12 a week it is now providing to hostels for the aged under the Aged Person Homes Act for the care of si m i liar types of people? Many of those who arc called ambulant patients are unable to help themselves but because of the rules regarding the limiting of the number of people in the infirmaries and the intensive care wards in hospitals, the hospitals themselves cannot classify these patients as intensive care or infirmary patients. They have to be classed as ambulant patients even though they require almost full time nursing. Surely a number of these ambulant patients could easily be verified, to the satisfaction of the Government, by the simple expedient of having a doctor certify that they are definitely infirmary or intensive care patients. This would overcome a great need of the hospitals. The hospitals need more assistance than they are receiving. 
With costs having risen over the last few months, even the subsidies provided for the intensive care and the infirmary patients are nowhere near sufficient to cover the cost per bed for these patients. Equal pay for the large number of women who work in hospitals has added thousands of dollars to the wages bills of the hospitals, and unfortunately the S22.40 per week, which is the new benefit awarded as from last January, is nowhere near sufficient to match the amount required to cover the cost of beds. I think it is a disgraceful situation that after many months of talk no positive action has been taken to provide the extra amount of money which would overcome the great problem facing hospitals. They are being crippled by the lack of assistance. The Budget should have provided additional funds. The extra benefit is $22.40 a week. It should be at least $30 per week per bed to cover added costs. An increase of this order would have been a positive step by the Government towards doing something for the aged infirm in this country. 
Other speakers have criticised the increase in the tax on petrol. The increase of 5c per gallon hits hard at every person, but it hurts the pocket of the battler, the working man, more than anyone else, and honourable members on the Government side know this. They must be very frightened to go back to their electorates. In today's affluent society many average families possess 2 cars, many have one car and perhaps a boat, and many have only one car. Nevertheless they will not be very happy with this Government at having to pay an increased price for petrol. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  may well laugh, but he will wish he was at the back of Bourke when his electors get to him. The increase in petrol prices will eventually be passed on to the cost of every conceivable item because freight charges and bus fares will rise. Workers will pay more to get to their jobs by either their own vehicles or by the public transport system. Goods will cost more to make and to deliver. Who said that this Budget would not increase inflation? It will hurt the family man. The man on a low income, even in his moments of relaxation, will be hit by this Budget. It will cost him more to go to his favourite sport or to take his family out. If he has no car, the added cost of public transport will, in many cases, probably force him to stay at home. 
All the rises that will occur in the prices of cigarettes, beer and spirits, will hit the family man more than anyone else. I am sure he will remember these rises in prices; I know he will remember them long after he has forgotten what minor benefits the Budget has produced. 
I now turn to company tax and decentralisation. The State Government of Victoria reduced payroll tax to encourage industries to decentralise. The reaction of companies to this Budget will soon nullify that plan. The increased company tax added to the extra cost of petrol for country industries in particular will wipe out any possible savings that might be gained by the State's move. If this Government was determined and honest in its attitude to regional development it would have left country firms free of this insidious increase in company tax and city firms would have had an incentive to leave metropolitan areas and go to country areas to establish their businesses. Certainly the Government would not have imposed an extra 5c tax on petrol supplied to country industries. 
The Government suggested in its election campaign that it would provide for uniform telephone charges as an encouragement for industry to decentralise. Not only did the Government fail to make good that suggestion but it worsened the situation greatly by raising rental charges for telephones in country areas. This Government has proved beyond all doubt that in presenting this Budget, this cities Budget, it was carrying out the commands of its city-based trade union bosses and that it has no intention at all of assisting the development of the rural section of the community. 
The Budget also dealt with pensions. The price of all goods will rise because of the increased cost of petrol and other pressures. Pensioners will receive the promised $1.50 which, as was stated last night by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  is an increase of 1 1 .4 per cent as against a rise in average earnings of 13 per cent. At this rate, pensioners will never see the day when their pensions will reach the level of 25 per cent of the average working wage. In fact, they will see the value of the pension lose ground. 
The home savings grant is to be deleted by 31 December 1976. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  believes that this grant was designed to assist only the wealthy. That is a ridiculous assessment. If he talked to the man in the street or got down to the shop level he would know what goes on. The Minister would know that there are many, many young people who have saved earnestly over a period of 3 years specified in the scheme to qualify for this grant. 
Certainnly they have worked hard for it. They deserve to receive this grant. This grant has given them the incentive to save for their own home. The honourable member was right when he said: Because of it'. These people have worked to save for their home. They did not have anybody to put money into the bank for them. However, the Government is now taking the grant away from them. The Government is trying to reduce home ownership to a minimum, if not wipe it out altogether, so that it can adhere to the absolute, pure socialist attitude of the Government owning all. 
The Treasurer proudly claimed in his Budget speech the; other night that no alteration would be made to the pay-as-you-earn system of taxation. However, the print was hardly dry and the air lines had hardly cooled before the Treasurer announced, through the Press of course, that it would not be long before the Government would be considering possible amendments to taxation allowances and that education and insurance claims could be deleted. I wonder when this will happen? Will it be this side of Christmas or before next June? I do not think it will be too long. What about the election promise of this Government to allow a tax deduction for child car centres? That has been conveniently forgotten. Many working mothers are finding it very difficult to understand why on the one hand they have to pay expenses to send their children to child care centres but are not allowed to claim them as a taxation deduction and on the other hand when their children get a little older and go to a state school these expenses can be claimed. This Budget will be known as the cities Budget. But I think when one considers all the factors, it could well be known as the blunderers' Budget. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.55)- I rise to support the Budget. I am proud of the opportunity to speak during the debate on the first Budget brought down by a Labor Government in 24 years. As the Budget represents the planned business activity of the nation for the next 12 months it is only natural that there will be some areas that will need adjustment and other areas that will need1 compensating assistance However, in my opinion the strategy of the Budget is far superior to any propositions put forward by the prophets of doom from the other side of the House who have spoken in this debate. The honourable member for Bendigo (Mr Bourchier) said that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  had been acting and that he should be on television. It was noticeable that he never tried to put up any case against the facts that were put forward by the Minister. On the other hand, I think it can be said that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was acting when he moved' his amendment to the Budget. However, I think it very unlikely that any member of the Opposition would advise him to go on television, particularly at a time when the Minister for Immigration or the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was on television, because I think that this would show us the weakness of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Leader of the Opposition attacked the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard).  He said that the honourable member had abandoned his electorate because the Government had removed the tax exemption in respect of gold mine profits. I believe that everyone in this House knows what a sincere and capable member is the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. The Leader of the Opposition also made a lot of noise about the discontinuance of other tax exemptions for mining industries including the 20 per cent exemption in respect of the profits of copper, nickel, tin, bauxite, beach sand and manganese miners. He said that these measures would have adverse economic effects and cause real social dislocation and hardship. I ask the House how sincere the Leader of the Opposition was when he made these statements and how sincere front bench Opposition members were when they supported him. 
I do not want to spend all the time allotted to me in replying to the arguments put forward by honourable members opposite because I want to put forward some suggestions as to how the Government can really assist the mining industries. In doing so I am conscious of the fact that many of the lead and zinc mining companies are big operators which have prospered, developed and diversified their interests to such an extent that they no longer depend for their profits on the original mine. They no longer depend on the employees who were needed to win the wealth from the hard rock. Broken Hill South Ltd could be classified as one such company. I do not say that to be critical but simply to illustrate the way that the big mining companies operate. After they build up large organisations of highly paid directors, technical and managerial staff it may be necessary for them to act as was done at the Broken Hill South mine. 
Because of the large overhead expenses that big mining companies must carry, perhaps to work effectively our mining resources large and small companies should work together. When the ore is starting to peter out and becomes diversified and scattered the big mining companies cannot operate in their normal way. I am told that often a lot of natural wealth is left behind in the ground. This became very obvious when  Mr Howell,  a director of Broken Hill South Ltd, announced on 6 April 1972 that the mine would close on 7 July 1972, giving notice of 3 months. Many reputable mining authorities claimed that the mine was finished for all time and, as I stated previously, it was closed for 6 months. It was only through the continuous efforts of the mining unions and ex-employees, who were able to convince another company that the South mine would be a paying proposition, that it was opened again. 
The suggestion was knocked from all directions, even on a governmental level. However, the answer to all the knockers can be found in the 'Barrier Daily Truth' of 3 August 1973 under the heading 'MM and M Boost'. The article goes on to say that Minerals Mining and Metallurgy Ltd reaped a $500,000 increase on its operations at the South Mine for the June quarter compared with the previous 3 months. The company earned almost $1.5m for the latest period. The directors' report showed the approximate value of production at $1,448,000 as against $910,000 in the March quarter. Honourable members will appreciate the great performance of the previous Government in giving assistance to mining companies and working our mining resources when it was prepared to pass over that sort of production! That mine is still in full production. The directors said that the approximate value of production of $1,448,000 was calculated after smelting charges and subject to price adjustment, yet to be notified by the smelters. 
Activities and production at the South mine increased in the 3 months period. During that time the volume of ore treated jumped from 50,370 long dry tons to 85,287 tons. Surely this is a good example of what can happen when employers are prepared to listen to and act on the advice of employees. Big companies as well as smaller companies must be made to realise that in the management of our mineral resources the mining industry and the national Government have a common responsibility as custodians of much of our natural wealth to ensure that the resources are managed in the interests of the whole nation, not only for the present but also for future generations. 
The mining industry and the national Government have a more direct responsibility to the miners and other people who work in and around mines and build homes in remote areas to win production that has transformed the nation's balance of payments. It has brought immense wealth and immense technological and industrial progress to our nation. Ten years ago minerals accounted for only 7 per cent of our exports. The Bureau of Mineral Resources has estimated that in another 10 years mineral exports could reach , a value of as much as $3,700m, more than  2i  times their present value. It is not unreasonable to forecast that by 1980 minerals could account for one-half of Australia's export earnings. 
The Department of Trade and Industry estimated that expenditure by all Australian industries on research and development represented 1 per cent of turnover whereas the mining companies spent close to 10 per cent of their turnover on exploration in 1971. After considering these facts no one would want to say that mining companies, big or small, had not played their part in the economic development of Australia. 
However, there are wider considerations that must compel the involvement of modern government in the mining industry. Despite the size of our mineral resources it would be fallacious and dangerous to regard them as inexhaustible. For this reason we cannot allow any big mining company to walk off a mining field and leave millions of tons of payable ore in the ground. I believe that the Government has some responsibility in this area. We must take into account the effects of mining on the rights of Aborigines, on the environment and pollution and the rights of those people who work in and around the mines. In the case of Broken Hill it must be remembered that even though the South mine has reopened it was possible to re-engage only half of the workers who were employed in the original mine. A great number of unemployed have been left in the area and unless the Western Mineralisation is developed the older mine cannot last a great many more years. 
It must be remembered that the Western Mineralisation is a large body of lower grade ore and it will need extensive developmental work to exploit the lode of minerals there. I believe that the Government has a responsibility to attack unemployment. Positive action by the Treasury is necessary to provide finance in order to extend the existing avenues of employment. The best way to do that would be to assist in the development of the Western Mineralisation. It would not only help to solve the unemployment problem at Broken Hill but would also return a rich long term harvest in taxes to the Treasury. I believe that the present example set by the workers of Broken Hill and the viability of the South mine justify some very sound assistance from the Federal Government. 
I wished to direct my question to the Minister for Defence but I cannot see him in the House. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to the written promise by the present Prime Minister as given to the Australian Federation of Credit Unions in a letter dated 24 October 1972 which stated that a Labor government would (1) grant exemption from taxation on credit union  incomes and (2) allow child endowment, social service and repatriation payments to be credited to the savings accounts of members of credit unions. In view of this statement, is the Treasurer prepared to explain why this promise was not carried out in the recent Budget? Further, is this promise ever to be honoured or is it another Labor Party promise to be dishonoured totally? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is a grant provided to local governing bodies under the States Grants (Home Care) Act to assist with the salaries of welfare officers employed by Councils, and is this grant restricted to a basis of 50 per cent of a calculated 56 per cent of time spent on work with the aged. 
If so, and as this restriction limits the activity of a welfare officer to a particular section of the community, (a) can a re-assessment of this grant be made to modify the requirements relating to this restriction and (b) can the suprvisiion of services provided be organised so that the need for detailed quarterly reports is removed or modified. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice: 
Is the Taxation Office using a computer system which at the press of a switch shows on a television screen a taxpayer's complete background. &lt;2) If so, does he consider that this information should be allowed on display at the obvious risk of infringing a taxpayer's rights. 
Will he give an assurance that all necessary precautions will be taken to protect the taxpayers' rights. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What will be the loss to revenue as a result of the 25 per cent tariff reductions. 
What steps has he taken to recover this amount in the estimates. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Engineering Division of his Department does not control its own operations. 
Is its finance controlled by the Finance and Accounting Branch, its staffing by thePersonnel Branch and its stores by the Supply Branch. 
Does his Department have in its employ approximately 45 per cent of all Public Service employees. 
Does the Engineering Division have in its employ approximately 44 per cent of the Department's employees. 
Would it save a lot of double administration costs by permitting the Engineering Division to control its own affairs. 
If so, could he, with the savings gained by this move, allocate more expenditure to areas of greater need in the Department such as providing more public facilities. 
The Repatriation Bill (No. 3), the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill (No. 2) are being considered cognately. Like the previous speakers on this side of the House I support these Bills as one must commend action that is to the benefit of any particular section of the community. The benefits provided in these Bills apply to exservicemen, ex-servicewomen and servicemen and servicewoman currently serving. We must applaud the Bills. But in applauding them I have some reservations, as have the previous speakers from this side of the House. 
The proposal to admit civilian patients to repatriation hospitals in case of emergency, as I understand, can only do some good. But 1 would mention of course that at present most hospitals no longer have a special repatriation ward and that repatriation patients are accepted into general hospitals in the intermediate ward section. So I think that perhaps balances the budget on that side. The proposal to supply artificial limbs to amputees can only be commended, and I do so. However, this Repatriation Bill, like the social security Bill presented previously which it follows closely, has a few hidden and very nasty surprises. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  mentioned that the Government was carrying out the same actions in this Repatriation Bill as in the social security Bill, but that is not quite as good an operation as he might think. I will explain that shortly. 
Before getting onto these particular points I would like to follow up what was said by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  about the repatriation problem concerning the ex-serviceman going back for a check-up for the purpose of his disability allowance. I have found, as obviously have other members of this House, that the ex-serviceman goes back to the Repatriation Board for a check-up and finds not only that his application for an increase is rejected but also that quite often he gets a reduction in his disability allowance. I have had this happen to several people in my electorate who are over 65. It is rather amazing that a man's war disability can improve when he is over 65. I suggest to the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  that, whilst the Government is bringing in a no means test pension for people who are aged 75 and over or who served in the Boer War and persons in other categories, consideration should be given to allowing the disability pension of a person who is over 60 years of age and who is eligible for a service pension to stay with him to be automatically increased rather than have him faced with the embarrassment of having it decreased. This has happened many times. If this principle were followed there would not be any need for such people to front up to a tribunal; it would be a decision of the Repatriation Department and a standing rule. This is something the Minister could look at. 
I now turn to the partial abolition of the means test and the taxing of pensions. It is in this area that this Bill is not quite the bed of roses that was presented by the honourable member for Barton and other speakers from the Government side. Firstly, I point out that the taxing of pensions does not affect those who are in receipt of war service pensions only and have no other source of income. The benefit that they receive from the increase in pensions is good. But let us look at the people who have other sources of income, perhaps superannuation. Firstly, I will deal with those to whom the means test does not apply and then with those who are still under age of 75 and who are subject to a means test. In the case of the person to whom the means test does not apply, if he has a superannuation income of $4,082 - there are many former public servants and others who have that sort of superannuation payment - and provided he is over 75 years of age, he can now receive a full pension of $1,053 a year. This brings his income to $5,135.  His  deductions normally are assessed at somewhere around $380. In a case I know of they were $388; so this man's taxable income is $4,747. He gets no rebate allowance because the $156 allowance cuts out once his taxable income is in excess of about $2,600. He cannot claim his wife as a deduction because she is getting the pension. Therefore the tax he pays on this amount will be approximately $830. Last year, with the benefit of the age allowance and being able to claim a part deduction for his wife, he paid $130. This person will be indebted to the Government for making him pay a further $700. So much for this great increase in pensions. 
The net increase in pension to a person over 75  -  in the case I mentioned the wife is 71 and does not get an increase in pension - means that this man gets an increase in his part pension of $317; but he is paying an increase in taxation of $700. In other, words, it will cost him $383 to receive the benefit of this Government's generosity. In the case of a person with an income of $3,664, which is only $72 a week - that is including a part pension - tax this year will be $518. Last year it was $128 with an age allowance and other deductions. This year tax will be increased $390. If he is subject to a means test he will get no increase in pension and therefore will be down $390. I have further examples which I would like to present to the House but it would take up to much time to give all the details of individual expenses under the various items set out on the taxation form. 1 would ask leave of the House to have them  incorporated in Hansard. I would say that they are relevant mainly to age pensions but I think they are quite relevant to the current Service pensions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
<para pgwide="yes">When Labor came to power on 2 December 1972 an increase in Age Pension was granted from the first pay-day thereafter, 14 December 1972. The increase for married couples was $1 . 50 per week per person, bringing the pension to $37.50 per fortnight. 

<graphic href="085131197309174_40_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Husband received $876.78 in a full year. His wife received $876.78 in a full year. 

<graphic href="085131197309174_40_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="085131197309174_40_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="085131197309174_41_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="085131197309174_42_2.jpg"></graphic>

 Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I must thank a very concerned pensioner from my electorate for providing me with these figures which I have verified and I will now briefly present them. The full details will he recorded in Hansard. I ask honourable members to note this case. It concerns a man aged 65 and his wife aged 60, in receipt of public service superannuation, each in receipt of a part pension of $877 for the 1972-73 income year. The man received $1,650 in superannuation and had allowable taxation expenses of $285 which brought his taxable income down to $1,365. That was for last year. With the age allowance provisions he did not pay tax because pensions were free of tax. For the year 1973-74 his superannuation increases from $1,650 to $1,790.  His  pension amounts to $1,068. In declaring bis income he put down bank interest of only $12', making a total of $2,870 income for the year. With the normal deductions of $206 his taxable income for this year will be $2,664.  His  rebate portion comes to $54.  His  tax on $2,664 amounts to $288 less a rebate of $54 which gives a net tax of $234. With the age allowance provisions tax on that amount of income would have been $82. The net extra cost to this pensioner will be $153. 
The increase in pensions over 1973-74 will hit these two pensioners in another way. In this case the total pension increase will be $337 for both, but the tax payable will be $234 which means they will get a net gain of $103 which is only about $2 a week for the married couple or something like a 7 per cent rise. They will receive not $3 a week as was mentioned in the Budget but about $2 a week. This is nothing but a con trick which is being put over every aged person. They will realise the full impact of this and vote accordingly the next time the election comes around. Under the new provisions there will be no weekly deductions from pensions. Pensioners will have to pay out a lump sum according to the assessment at the end of the year. I would ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and anybody who is in this House to consider how these people will be able to save up $700 or $800 to pay out in taxation. 
There is one minor matter - it may appear to be minor but to these people it is a matter of great concern - and that is the proposal to increase the excise duty on brandy. Many pensioners, both service and ordinary age pensioners, like to have a bottle of brandy at home. Under this Budget they are being hit by an increase of $2 a bottle. This is only one of the small items which have accelerated in cost. These increases are reacting against the so-called generosity which is provided by this Government. I am sure that the aged new taxpayers of this country will remember this Government's action which takes away their money rather than giving it to them. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Does the Government agree that ambulance services are vital and important in respect of the health of the Australian people. 
If so, will he give consideration to allowing subscription to and fees for, ambulance services to be a deduction from income tax; if not, why not. 
I wish to address a question to the Minister for Housing concerning the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. At present the HLIC, as it is called, is only able to insure loans bearing a limit of 8i per cent interest. Seventy-five per cent of the loans insured with HLIC are building society loans and the current increase of building society interest rates brings them above the 8i per cent limit thereby forcing them to look to other companies such as American subsidiary companies to insure their loans. Will the Minister give consideration to having the  Si  per cent limit raised so that the building societies can invest their money in loans insured by this Australian Government organisation? 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
How will the costs of delivering natural gas be assessed in order to supply the gas at an equal price at all points. 
How arc these costs to be charged. 
Is it proposed to support the costs by Commonwealth subsidy. 
Is it the intention of the Government or the Pipeline Authority to recover the costs of laying the pipeline, over a period, by a charge to be included in the cost to be assessed for the delivery of the gas. 
ls it intended to recover total costs, on whatever basis assessed, in charges to the purchaser. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that pensioners, who have children attending school, find it extremely difficult to meet the costs of public transport for their children. 
Is it also a fact that some children of pensioners are entitled to use free transport to school but are required to pay for other travel on public transport, placing a heavy burden on their parents. 
Will he take steps to extend the use of entitlement cards to cover children of pensioners attending school when they are travelling on public transport at any time to relieve the pensioner of this costly burden. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the future of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation? 
Are its members to be incorporated into the Public Service? 
Has he approved any plans for improving the staff conditions of its members? 
asked the Minister for Supply,  upon notice: 
With reference to his statement that there will be retrenchment of employees at munitions establishments due to the reduction in orders from the Defence Services, will he state what steps he has taken, or proposes to take, in order to provide sufficient orders from other sources to ensure continuity of employment at the Bendigo Ordnance Factory which also relies heavily on the Defence Services to provide continuous employment. 
If he has no such plan, will he give an assurance that there will be no retrenchments at the Bendigo Ordnance Factory similar to the assurance he gave in the House concerning the Lithgow plant. 
If there are to be retrenchments in Bendigo, what proposals has he for the re-employment of those to be retrenched. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will a general practitioner under the proposed National Health Scheme be able to treat his own patient in a public ward at a general hospital either as a private patient or as a public patient. 
Will a general practitioner be permitted to operate on his patient who is in a public hospital. 
If a general practitioner is permitted to treat his own patient, will he be paid on the sessional basis or as for particular service. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that many patients of Homes for the Aged Blind are considered as ambulant patients because they can walk about or sit up even though they require constant intensive care due to their affliction and are incapable of looking after themselves. 
Will he investigate the position with a view to allowing all residents in Homes for the Aged Blind to be classified as intensive care patients. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has there been a reduction from 100 to 50 Stemetil tablets on pensioner prescriptions. 
If so, does this reduction create a problem to the pensioners, inasmuch as they are forced to make twice the number of trips for prescriptions and collection of the tablets, causing unnecessary expense and effort. 
Will he take action to withdraw this ruling in consideration of the elderly people using the tablets. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice. 
Has his attention been drawn to statements made in May  1969  by the Minister for Transport whilst a member of the Opposition and by the honourable member for Wilmot that it was Labor Party policy to use all moneys collected as petrol tax solely for road systems. 
If so, what is the attitude of the Government to this proposal, and will such a scheme be introduced within the next year. 
Tonight the Committee is debating the estimates of the Department of the Environment and Conservation. It is most interesting to note that the total expenditure of the Department this year is estimated to be $1,729,000. A large part of that sum is for administration but that is to be expected seeing that a separate department has been set up to deal with this field. It is interesting to note that in subdivision 3, dealing with other services, the River Murray Commission is to receive $19,000 as a contribution towards expenses; $270,000 is to be spent on water resources research; and the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service is to receive $100,000. I applaud the Government for proposing this expenditure but more particularly for its grants in aid, set out in subdivision 4, which to me represent the function of a Federal government in this sphere. Under that subdivision $150,000 is for the Australian Conservation Foundation and $100,000 is for grants to other conservation organisations, and those provisions augur well for the future of this Department. An interesting item in this subdivision is the provision of $20,000 for the Keep Australia Beautiful Council. I understand that many industries subscribe to this organisation to assist in the campaign to keep Australia beautiful. Unfortunately members of the general public do not seem to be aware that they also can participate and do something to keep our country beautiful. We find that there is much litter around. 
However tonight I particularly want to speak about the disposal of waste. As we all know, waste disposal is becoming an increasingly large problem to many city and shire councils. Apparently two or three different methods of waste disposal are being used. One is the land fill method; I think most of us are aware of it. But unfortunately today the cost of a hole is becoming far greater than the cost of actual land. In the near future the major cities will be faced with the immense problem of how to dispose of waste because they cannot buy holes in the ground. The Australian Government can provide immense assistance in this field. I know that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  could not do so out of the amount that his Department has been allocated this year but obviously this point will arise again later. 
In my view the Department of the Environment and Conservation ultimately will become a most important and integral part of our future. I believe that the Australian Government will be asked to provide assistance in the way of both money and expertise to help the major cities, and the towns and the cities in the country areas, to overcome this looming problem. In some States the land fill method is not of great significance because many vast waste areas are scattered around which could be used for this purpose. However in New South Wales and Victoria in particular, where the population is of greater density, the number of holes available for land fill is diminishing very smartly. As a result town and city councils are being forced to look at such processes as incineration. 
It may be all right for the cities of Sydney and Melbourne to look at incineration methods on a large scale. Very sophisticated systems of incineration are required if they are to be successful in combating the problem of polluting the atmosphere as many incinerators do. However I understand that some very expensive incinerators can be purchased and used to burn the various wastes at a very intense heat  &amp;o  that there is an absolute minimum of atmospheric pollution. In this way too I can see a future for this Australian Government in its role of protecting the environment and conservation in that the Department will provide the expertise and the funds to help the smaller shires and also councils in the suburbs of the cities to provide this necessary means of disposing of their waste. 
A third method of waste disposal is the recycling system. This again requires expensive machinery if it is to be effective. It is not just a matter of saying: 'OK, we will recycle the rubbish*, lt is not that easy. The Minister's hands are perhaps tied in this field so far as doing something practical is concerned but he certainly can provide the expertise. His Department can investigate the best possible methods of dealing with this great waste disposal problem. I am sure that if some of the money provided under this appropriation could be devoted to a study to bring forward the expertise necessary to dispose of rubbish Australia will have gained a great deal from that expenditure. 
Proposed expenediture agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  - Order! It being 15 minutes to 11 o'clock, in accordance with the order of the House, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
On the motion for the adjournment of the House I wish to speak on the matter of bank interest rates which, I think, are a matter of importance to us all at the moment with the bond rate running free. I wish to draw to the attention of the House the very significant effect that this has on what are commonly called the working people of this country - the people who save desperately to put money aside for a rainy day and who have a small savings account of a few hundred dollars or even up to a couple of thousand dollars. Unless they have an amount of more than $4,000 in a savings account their money earns  3i  per cent interest. This compares with the 6 per cent that those who save more than $4,000 earn on their money deposited in a savings bank. If a person invests his money, whether it be $100, or more, in a permanent building society or similar institution he will receive an interest rate of 7i per cent on his daily balance. I believe that this situation leaves a very bad taste in the mouths of the many people who have small savings accounts. 
Savings deposited in savings banks at the end of the financial year totalled $ 10,438m, which was distributed over 17,542,000 accounts. Of course, the greatest number of those accounts would be the little accounts to which I referred - not the great big ones with many thousands of dollars in them but little accounts belonging to the people who have saved and put aside their money for a rainy day. Many of these people do not use this money to buy their homes; they do not use all their money to buy their cars. They like to have that little pot of money kept aside in case some problem arises. Therefore one finds that when they wish to buy a car, a refrigerator, a television set or furniture foi their homes they have to pay at least 9 per cent or 10 per cent interest on the money they are required to borrow, provided that they can borrow the money through a bank on overdraft, by opening a separate account or by taking out a personal loan. If they borrow through an accredited finance organisation they will probably have to pay a much higher interest rate. 
Many young people who wish to buy their own homes save a certain amount of money so that they are able to put down a deposit on their land. They keep saving and set aside a little more again for the house. When they go to build a home, they find that because of the cost of homes today they are allowed to borrow so much and no more. Then they are forced to take out a second mortgage. I believe that in the Australian Capital Territory many people actually take out a third mortgage. This means that these people have to pay interest rates as high as 9 per cent and 10 per cent on the money borrowed to build their homes. They have no hope of ever seeing the day when they can proudly say: 'This is my home'. But the worst thing about this situation is that they cannot afford to put money aside in a savings account, perhaps for their annual holidays, to look after themselves if they become sick or to buy something in an emergency, for the simple reason that they are losing money on every cent that they have in their savings accounts. They receive 3i per cent interest on the money in their savings accounts but they are paying out  9i  per cent on their borrowings. Obviously they are losing 6 per cent or 7 per cent on every dollar that they keep aside. This to me is a shameful thing and I believe that it is time that the Australian Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in particular took notice of this situation. I believe that it is time that he had a look at the whole range of interest rates applying to savings accounts. He should do something for the people. 
Let us look at the situation of the pensioners of this country - the people for whom the Labor Party so proudly boasts it is doing something. It has done something for them. In the country areas in particular, it has increased the rentals that they are required to pay for their telephone service. It has introduced the payment of income tax on the earnings of pensioners. I am pleased to note that it was not too long after I made a speech a couple of weeks ago on the estimates for the Repatriation Department when I pointed out the anomalous situation of imposing taxation on the earnings of pensioners that the Treasurer obviously woke up and realised that he had to do something. He raised the limit of earnings that these people were allowed to have to something like $3,000 before they became taxable. Nevertheless, I am very much concerned that anybody should be required to pay tax on his pension. 
I am speaking particularly of people under the age of 75 years who are not free of the means test but who in fact are subject to the means test To impose taxation on this money is a deliberate fraud on the part of the Labor Government in relation to the people who are so involved, because such an imposition is unfair on them. Although they receive no extra income they are paying out extra money by way of taxation. This should not be allowed. I believe that until such time as these people are free of the means test they should not be required to pay tax on this money. I do not advocate that the tax should not be applied to those who are now free of the means test. I believe that this is quite just and fair, provided that the scale of taxation is reasonable and not at the level it was previously. But, as I said, the Treasurer finally woke up to the situation and has taken steps to overcome the problem. 
The next step for the Treasurer to take is to look at the two areas I have mentioned tonight. Firstly, I ask him to look at the matter of interest rates paid to people who have small savings bank accounts. The interest rate should be increased so that these people can feel that they are wanted in this country and so that they are given an incentive to save through the savings banks. If this is not done, it might well be that the Treasurer will find that many of the people among those who hold the 17 million-odd savings accounts will withdraw their money from the savings banks and deposit it with another savings institutions, such as the permanent building societies, where at least they can get a fair rate of interest The other matter at which I would ask the Treasurer to look again shortly is the imposition of taxation on those people who are receiving a pension but who are still subject to the means test. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Do the many small shopkeepers, who provide a service to the public by selling stamps as agents for his Department, receive any commission or margin on the sale of the stamps. 
If not, has his Department any proposals to provide some remuneration to these people providing this service. 
Is it a fact that this method of selling ls providing a good service to the public and that some remuneration would encourage more shopkeepers to provide the service. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. It concerns ex-servicemen under the age of 65 years but over the age of 60 years who are unable to enter service homes provided by the Department of Repatriation for aged ex-servicemen. I refer to places such as Burnewang at Elmore near Bendigo. Apparently ex-servicemen are eligible for a pension at 60 years of age but they are not eligible to enter these homes. Will the Minister have a look at this situation to see whether it can be amended as at the present time there are at least 5 vacancies at Burnewang but there are at least 12 persons whose medical condition makes them suitable for admission to these homes but who cannot get permission to enter them because they are not 65 years of age? 
It has been interesting to listen to the rapid ravings of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  about the A class schools as he so calls them. It is also interesting to note that he is the one who talked all the time about the A class schools. After all, the appropriation we are examining- 
Well, it is interesting that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has seen fit to remove many schools from this classification. It is particularly interesting to note that in Tasmania, which has no Liberal Party representative in this House - they are all Labor representatives - there is no school in category A. This has been a nice change of politics. It is also interesting to note that it was not the recommendation of the Karmel report that this classification should come into operation straight away. It recommended that the present scheme be phased out over a few years. But this Government, in indecent haste, has rushed in and brought it into operation as from December of this year. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Education I certainly agree with many facets of the Karmel report and in particular with the plans to involve parents more in schooling. I think we should all agree to that. Having been a member of the Parents and Citizens Association of the Golden Square High School for a number of years, I am well aware that there is a need for parents to be further involved in schooling. It is unfortunate that, even though we have such parent organisations, they are very limited in the involvement which they can have with the school. They are more involved, perhaps, in money raising for amenities, whether it be a private or public school. The organisations cannot be involved in the actual running of programs for the school. I wonder whether this is perhaps exactly the right thing. At the same time I acknowledge that the closer that parents can be tied to and involved with a school, obviously the better it will be for their children who are attending that school. The money allocated for education by this Government is, as has been noted, a magnificent sum. It is very good to see. But how much has it bled from the States in providing this' money? Of the $480m about $200m was formerly provided for the States to spend on schools. So, is it really such a magnificent amount? 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  when speaking on this subject the other night, mentioned that students in form 3 at secondary schools were able to read only to the standard of grade 3 or 4 of a State school. I made a comment by interjection at that time that I thought this was a reflection on the teachers. I still say it is a reflection on the teachers. Despite what the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  has to say, I can cite figures for schools with which I have been associated which will show that the average level of all students is very high. In fact, in grade 6 there was a 90 per cent pass at matriculation. This is not due solely to the ability of the children; it is due to the quality of teachers that are available and their interest in the children. 
I heard an honourable member say earlier that many of the teachers almost break their necks getting out of the school when the bell rings. This is a fact. When the teachers decide, in their 32 hours a week, that they should really work for the children and be prepared to put a little time into teaching them, we will see results. When I went to school, which would have been at the same time as many other honourable members of this House including the former school teacher, the honourable member for Holt, there were 40 or more students per teacher. But the teachers were prepared to put the time, effort and hard work into providing the necessary studies and the program for those children to succeed. The same does not apply today. Teachers are not prepared to do this in many schools. Fortunately in my electorate there is a very high grade of teacher. I think the results prove it. This is no reflection on my ability or that of any other individual except the person concerned - the teacher. I think my area is fortunate in that it has such conscientious teachers. In our area teachers are taking such an interest in what is going on that they are prepared to put their spare time into forming an education centre involving both parents and themselves. They are to be congratulated. It shows that they are prepared to give a little more time than merely the hours for which they are paid to work. This, after all, is surely what education is all about. If money is being allocated by the Government - we congratulate it for that - to provide amenities, I point out that amenities will not teach the children. It is the person at the helm, the teacher, who educates the children. The soon we realise that the better we will be. 
I refer again to the subject which the honourable member for Blaxland, who has left the chamber, was loud in criticising and that is the classification of various schools. I make one point. The parents of the children involved are all taxpayers. All of us, irrespective of where our children go to school, pay taxes. Those taxes go into Consolidated Revenue from which the Government provides the funds for schooling. If those taxpayers are not entitled to a share of their money and have it working for them, I think it is total injustice. This Government is proving once again in its many ways of doing it that this is another injustice against the people who are paying taxes. 
All taxpayers should get some share of their taxes when they are put into the workings of the country. The honourable member should agree with that; if he does not he is not thinking straight. This shows the Government's total discrimination against a section of the community. The Government is like a tiger with a smile on his face. He has just swallowed one animal and thinks it is very nice. The Government has knocked off all the schools in the A classification and will eventually work down the scale. It was part of the socialist Government's platform against the whole lot and honourable members opposite know it. Honourable members opposite know that they are dead against any state aid at all but they are not honest enough to admit it. They stand up with self-righteous indignation and say: We are prepared to give state aid only to the lower schools'. What the Government really plans to do - and honourable members opposite are so ignorant and dumb that they do not realise what is going on in their Government - is attack all these schools with the intention of taking away state aid from every private school, whether it be Catholic or any other school. 
The honourable member knows it quite well, but he is frightened to admit it to his electors. There is no problem; this is the Government's long term plan. It is part of the socialist plan to wipe out all private schools totally. It is a very nice- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! There are far too many interjections. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The interjections do not worry me because honourable members opposite know that this is the thin edge of the wedge. They know that this is the start of their nice little program. At least those who are in the know appreciate that, but there are so many on that side of the House who are so dumb that they do not know that they are being led by the nose. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  is trying to interject.  His  children go to a public school. In time to come he will say: 'My God. It has happened to me. What is happening here? My Government has turned around and bitten me'. And it will. There will be no problem about that. This socialist Government is out to wipe out State aid totally. 
I will. What else would you like to hear? Do you want to find out how you are being fooled? You are being totally fooled by the programs of this Government. There is not a shadow of doubt about that fact. As soon as the people of this country realise that fact, they will put the Government out of office, because this is the thin end of the wedge. There is no reason in the world why it should select a few- 
In fact, over 100 schools have been selected- 
The temporary Minister for Immigration will not be here for very long. 
It is only a matter of time before the Government takes this action. If this Bill is passed, the Government will carry out its plans to rob the people and to take away from them their money which is working for them through taxation. The Gov ernment will not give them a share of it. Only a small number is involved at the moment, as indicated by the Minister for Education. But when the numbers finally come out, the figure of 100 will be reduced to 50. We should wait to see what happens next year. If the Government gets away with its proposals this year, those schools in category 'B' will start shaking in their shoes and those in category C will start worrying about what is going to happen. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is there an extreme shortage of baling wire for the rural industry. 
If so, has the Minister (a) taken any steps to have wire imported or (b) discussed the problem with Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd in an endeavour to obtain increased production. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Was it proposed to pay compensation to the apple and pear industry at the rate of 30 cents per case on 1971-72 season average in respect of the export of apples or pears to offset losses caused by devaluation. 
If so, what action has been taken to honour the promise. 
asked the Minister for Hous ing, upon notice: 
What sum has been paid in Home Savings Grants in (a) Victoria and . (b) Australia in each year since the inception of the scheme. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
Is it intended to build a number of houses for married Army personnel at Puckapunyal. 
If so, (a) when will construction commence and (b) will the houses be built in Seymour or Puckapunyal. 
If it is not intended to build the houses in Seymour, will he reconsider the decision as it would be of great benefit to Seymour for homes to be built in that town. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What moneys will be available through the Grants Commission during 1973-74. 
When is it proposed that these grants will be available. 
Has the Minister agreed with the various State governments as to the boundaries of the proposed regions. 
If the regions  are  not yet finalised, when does the Minister expect a decision will be reached. 
Will grants be allocated on a per head of population basis to the regions; if not, what method will be used. 
Will each region be given equal opportunity to present a case for assistance. 
I deal with the estimates for the Department of Housing. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  recently mentioned in Queensland that in Australia we have today a housing situation in which there is an average of one house for every 3i persons which, as he stated and agreed, is a better position than in most other countries of the world. This is a position, of course, which was brought about by previous governments. It is to be hoped that this Government and the Minister in charge of this portfolio will do all they can to endeavour to maintain and perhaps even lift this level. Housing is one of the great needs of Australia. We are well aware of that. But it has also been one of the misfortunes of this country that many people have not had the opportunity to own their own homes. In today's affluent society people are desiring to build better and larger homes. Consequently there is a great demand on the money market for home building in the private sector. However, the State governments throughout Australia are supplying the needs and the ways to provide housing for both the person in what is termed the lower income bracket and also, of course, for the person desiring to rent a home. 
A national code of housing standards has been suggested. I think that a proper standard of home building would only improve the housing cost situation throughout Australia. This does not necessarily mean, as many people tend to take it, that a standard design in homes is demanded. But of course, as the Minister is well aware and would no doubt agree, standardisation of building regulations throughout Australia, agreed to by all States and the Australian Government, could only bring a better standard of home and a faster building of the home and consequently a greater production of items such as bricks, windows, etc. This, of course, will lower the cost of those goods in these days of rising prices. 
The Minister for Housing has indicated his desire to have the State governments build homes only for rental. He would prefer that the State governments have no homes for sale; he would leave the provision of such homes to the private market. However, I would draw his attention, as I have done in the past, to Victoria which provides a very efficient means of home building and provides housing for both those who desire to rent a home and those who desire to own their own home. Until this year the Victorian Government provided houses at a very low rental of around $13 a week. This amount has since been raised to approximately $15 a week. I might add that that is still well below the so-called economic level of rental that the Minister has suggested should be the standard rental charged throughout housing estates. Under his scheme a person on the average income would be required to pay a rental in the vicinity of $20 a week, which would be a tremendous increase in the cost of renting a Housing Commission home in Victoria. 
The Victorian Government has now introduced further legislation providing for the payment of no deposit for the purchase of homes built by the Victorian Housing Commission. A person, having rented a Housing Commission home for a while, has the opportunity of requesting that he be transferred to a position of being able to purchase the home. Of course, if he applies in the first place to own a home he can go into that house without paying a deposit and proceed to purchase it. The difference, of course, is that in renting a home he would pay a lesser amount of money a week than he would if he was buying the home. Incidentally, the amount paid to purchase the home is still below the $18 to $20 a week that the Minister would have the people pay as an economic rent level. So in Victoria I believe that the Housing Commission is well geared to provide housing on the best possible basis. 
We talk about the shortage of homes. I think we all must agree that in certain areas there is a shortage of homes ready for occupation. But this is not necessarily brought about by a lack of funds. Provision of such homes will not be achieved overnight by this Government presenting millions of dollars to the States. Other problems are associated with home building. The major one, of course, is the supply of building materials. Unfortunately the acceleration in home building, brought about by the affluence of the society as much as anything else, has created such a demand on the market for materials that there is no one single item in the building industry which can be acquired immediately if a person is building a home. 
It is not uncommon today, even in a country area such as my electorate, if one wants to order framing materials for a house, to wait up to two to three months. Bricklayers and bricks are impossible to obtain. This means that people wishing to build homes, or even if the Government is wishing to let contracts for housing commission homes, find that the contractors are unwilling to tender for contracts because by the time they actually get the materials to start the job they find that the cost of labour and materials has gone up so much that their tender price is no longer acceptable. I understand that moves have been made in Victoria to allow a rise and fall clause in contracts to overcome this problem. I think that this is a particularly good move. Perhaps the Minister should examine the proposition that a rise and fall clause should be allowed in contracts for people tendering for jobs for the Department of Works. Today one cannot blame a contractor for not completing or not starting a job if he cannot get material or if he cannot get sub-contract labour. 
Another problem of housing is the lack of apprentices. This is perhaps being felt at the moment but it will be felt more so in the future. This is an area where I strongly suggest that the Minister consider providing funds where money can do some good, namely, in providing school facilities to encourage apprentices to learn their trade. I think the days have gone when apprentices should have to learn their trade while being employed by a tradesman. I think that we are getting to the stage where most children go to school until they complete tertiary or technical education. Therefore, they are not encouraged to leave school at the age of 16 or 17 and take on a trade with a S-year apprenticeship. I think it is time that this whole situation was looked at seriously in order to provide the opportunity for people to learn a trade at school at a sufficiently high standard and with enough knowledge so that they can go out at the age of 19.or 20 at least part way through their trade course so that they do not feel that they are losing money, or not earning enough money and sacrificing their future by taking on a trade. This is a real problem and something that we should look at for the future of our country's trade industries. It is a serious problem but unfortunately the Minister is not even listening to me. 
One of the other problems is the slowness of title transfers. Many people who start out to build a home are able to arrange their finance and their builder before the title to their block of land comes through. This adds to the problems associated with shortages and high costs. I do not know whether the Minister can do anything about this matter. I believe, however, that it is a problem that all governments should look at seriously to see what can be done to obviate this terrible lack of ability to obtain title transfers. Oh checking on tie matter myself, ! have found that titles officers claim that the State governments have insufficient money to enable them to employ extra staff to man their Titles Offices adequately. That may be an area in which the Minister could provide the necessary funds. 
However, even if titles can be transferred quickly, people will not be able to build homes while there is a drastic need for more building materials. We all like to see home-grown and locally manufactured products promoted, but when there is a crisis, as there is at the moment, we should be doing all we can to import building materials to help the home builder. There are timbers in the islands that could be used for home building, although their use would increase costs. Instead of putting money into building and supplying mobile homes, it might toe better if the Government subsidised the importation of such materials so that home building can proceed at a better rate. 
While I am on the subject of mobile homes, I must say that I am not against the Minister's thoughts in this direction, for they provide a good answer on a temporary basis only to a problem that needs urgent attention. I realise that the Minister has studied the position in North America and in other areas, but I believe he must watch closely the danger of overcrowding and creating slums, which could result from the building and supplying of mobile homes. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
How many (a) males and (b) females have been receiving unemployment benefits continuously during the last (i) 4 months, (ii) 3 months and (iii) 2 months. 
Have there been repeated advertisements for labour, especially female labour, in the Bendigo area; if so, is the shortage of labour in Bendigo consistent with the figures provided in answer to part (1). 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
In view of the proposed free fees at universities in 1974, will the teacher studentship allowances be (a) increased or (b) decreased. 
asked the Minister for Ser  vices and Property, upon notice: 
Is the office of the Department of Social Security to be moved to new premises in Hargraves Street, Bendigo, when they are completed. 
If so, is it intended to move the section of the Department at present housed at the Fountain Plaza site where both the Taxation and Labour offices are also housed. 
Is it a fact that the Department will be paying $7 per square foot in the new offices while at present it is paying $1.75 per square foot for the offices in the Fountain Plaza area. 
If the position is as stated, will he reconsider the moving of this section which, if it remains at its present site, will be adjacent to the new offices where other sections are to be housed. 
Has his Department checked to see if all sections of the Department of Social Security could be housed in the Fountain Plaza area where it appears that there is space available at a greatly reduced cost. 
Each of the 5 Bills now before the House deals with tertiary education. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  mentioned that two speakers were to follow him. This means that I must cut my remarks and make them fairly brief. In doing so, I immediately come to the point with respect to the fourth university for Victoria, which has been mentioned to a degree and in which I know that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are vitally interested with respect to your electorate as I am in relation to the electorate of Bendigo. Following quite a deal of investigation and discussion, as the member for Diamond Valley mentioned, the Victorian Government decided originally that that fourth university was to be sited in the 3 areas of Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo. Following a report presented by the investigating body which carried out that inquiry, this was agreed to by the Minister for Education in Victoria and was eventually brought forward as a promise by the State Government. 
That body of inquiry had considered submissions put in by representatives of those 3 country areas. I know that, in particular, a great deal of time, money and effort was spent by the authorities in Bendigo in making sure that their submission stated the case in the best possible manner, setting out the requirements for a university. Also it checked far afield in Victoria to see from which areas of population the need would come for such a university. I am sure that those in Geelong did the same. 
Following that submission and the decision by the State Government, we were greatly disappointed when we found out that we would have to wait on the Australian Universities Commission to make up its mind and to report on whether it would accept the decision by the Victorian Government. At the time when the decision was made to site the university in those 3 centres, the responsibility rested with the State Government. Now, the policy has been changed and universities are to be funded entirely by the Commonwealth. We are now in the position where we must wait for the decision by the Commonwealth body. Costs are rising all the time. The wait is becoming somewhat irksome. 
Let me put the honourable member for Diamond Valley more clearly in the picture as to what is happening with respect to the inquiry by the Australian Universities Commission. The Commission has visited the 3 areas involved in this inquiry and has just completed its investigations and talks, having held hearings in the 3 centres concerned. Unfortunately, the Press heralded that the Commission had a preconceived opinion as to exactly where this university was to go. It was stated quite emphatically in the Melbourne 'Age' that the university was to be located in Dandenong. This was before the Commission visited Bendigo to investigate the matter. The newspapers in my city stated that the Commission was to support the establishment of the university there on the basis of the existing teachers' college with university extensions and proposed to keep the college of advanced education as a separate entity which would function apart from the university. These statements led to a great deal of heartburning in my electorate, particularly on the part of the council of the college of advanced education in Bendigo of which I am a member. We were anxious to meet the Commission. When we did so, we found that the newspaper reports had not correctly recorded the true state of affairs. 
Firstly, the Australian Universities Commission was looking at the possibility of locating the university at Dandenong. Secondly, it was considering looking at the AlburyWodonga area. These were but two of the areas which the Commission proposed to consider. Also, it was considering the possibility of the university combining with the college of advanced education and the teachers college as well as the possibility, as mentioned in the Press, of the college of advanced education operating separately from the teachers' college and the university. One feels that perhaps the Press was looking for news containing startling revelations rather than the facts of the matter which would have shown to the public that the Commission was trying to discover all facets of the matter and report on that basis. 
Nevertheless I trust that following all the waffling that has occurred between the Federal Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and his Interim Commission under the control of Professor Karmel, the Commonwealth will get around to agreeing to the decision already made to site the university on the 3-campus basis as being the best way to deal with the requirement. If that is done, we will be able to get on with the necessary work. 
Let me explain what has happened as a result of the procrastination that has occurred with respect to this matter. A promise has been made to supply the State College at Bendigo, the fenner teachers' college with S3. 75m so that it might proceed to erect a resources centre and a humanities building. This was promised earlier in the year but suddenly, because of the waffling that occurred on the part of the Universities Commission and the hold-up in the whole situation, this project also was held up. There was some lame excuse that it might not work in with the university when the decision was made. This has all been designed to work in with the university. In the Bendigo area the College of Advanced Education is almost adjacent to the teachers' college or the State college. There are a few acres of land in between. The site is an ideal one because it can be extended and linked up. This was the plan and everybody in Bendigo has worked for this ideal. It was accepted by the State, but now the whole thing has been held up, particularly the building project associated with the State college. I think it is a shame. Building costs are accelerating. This project has been held up now for 3 or 4 months and we will find that more money will have to be paid. Money is being wasted when the job could have been under way at the estimated cost. 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  also mentioned that $188 is to be spent as part of the funding in 1973-74. He quoted $102m more than was quoted by the previous Government. He blithely stated that it would have paid $86m this year in accordance with previous arrangement for equal participation by the States. He conveniently forgot what he had just said - that the States are paying their share. So in effect the outlay would have been $172m from the State and the Federal governments, an increase of $16m or of less than 10 per cent and far less than the escalating cost caused by inflation. The total sum being spent by the Government on education is excellent and we heartily endorse it, but for goodness sake let the Government not try to put around the idea that it is doing marvellous things. It is not even keeping up with inflation. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to reports that members of the Commonwealth Police Force stationed in Bendigo may be forced to transfer to other places as a result of recent Budget cuts in Defence expenditure and the possible effect on the Ordnance Factory in Bendigo. 
Is it a fact that the 8 families long established in Bendigo who would be affected by any transfer are gravely concerned at this prospect. 
Will the Attorney-General give an assurance that these families will not be retrenched or transferred from Bendigo. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will he provide a complete list of post offices in Victoria that are to be down-graded. 
Which official post offices are to be relegated to non-official. 
Which non-official post offices are to be closed. 
Will he provide the reason for the decision in respect of each post office, giving details of costs, receipts, etc. 
asked the Minister for 
Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
Will certain large retailers be able to profit extensively from the 25 per cent tariff reduction by importing goods at a cheaper cost than Australian made equivalents and, without infringing the provisions of the Prices Justification Act, by selling these goods at the same price as the Australian made equivalents. 
If so, how will the tariff cuts reduce inflation or the cost of goods to the purchaser. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is his Department planning to phase out its operations at the Mangalore Airport; if so, why and over what period. 
What plans will be provided for the future employment of the present staff at Mangalore. 
Did the Regional Director advise the firemen attached to Mangalore to look for another job; if so, is this a reasonable attitude towards employees. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Victorian Government made an approach to the Australian Government to seek assistance with their proposal to provide the$40 rates deferment for pensioners. 
If so, what is the attitude of the Government to the proposal. 
If no approach has yet been received, is the Government prepared to assist in this program to assist pensioners. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
With reference to the abolition of fees for university students as from 1 January 1974 will scholarships awarded for fees in 1974 be paid in cash to those students so awarded. &lt;2) Will living allowances be paid to students under the proposed scheme. 
If so, will those students awarded scholarships for 1974 to cover living costs be paid in cash to the value of that award. 
If these awards or scholarships are not needed for future university students, what is it anticipated will be offered as a reward to students for high endeavour. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a number of Ministers and Ministerial staff have been allocated flat accommodation in the Australian Capital Territory at $20 per week. 
If so, is this accommodation subsidised by the Government. 
Will he undertake to give private Members the opportunity of obtaining such accommodation. 
If he cannot provide such accommodation to private Members, then is he prepared to subsidise their costs to the equivalent rate that the Ministers are paying for their units. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that under the proposed National Health Insurance Scheme a person desiring to use intermediate or private hospital facilities will need to subscribe to 2 organisations in order to have adequate cover, viz.: the Government sponsored compulsory program and a voluntary association to make up the extra costs. 
Is it also a fact that at present the same person can receive this insurance cover by subscribing to only, one of any of the voluntary schemes. 
Is it also a fact that, where persons subscribe to a voluntary scheme to make up extra costs, the person on a higher income will still receive the greater tax benefit as claimed at present. 
In speaking to the Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty the Queen at the opening of the Second Session of the Twenty-eighth Parliament I would like firstly to draw the attention of the House to the section on education. In particular I refer to the decision by the Government to locate the fourth university in Victoria at Geelong. Today a very full report was delivered to the various offices and a copy was placed on my desk. A close study of it shows that it goes to great lengths virtually to give every reason to support the proposal for a 3-campus university. It goes so far as to say there is nothing against a 3-campus university. Such institutions have proved to be very successful, but for various reasons the Government and the Australian Universities Commission decided against the establishment of one in Victoria. 
The decision by the Government on a fourth university in Victoria is unfortunate and curious. It is a curious decision arrived at with regard to the Australian Universities Commission and unfortunate for the people of western and north-central Victoria, particularly those in Ballarat and Bendigo. Let us look at the progression of events in regard to the establishment of a fourth Victorian university. On 9 February 1973 an article appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald' which stated: 
Bendigo university site says ALP. A special ALP parliamentary sub-committee has recommended Bendigo as the site of an administrative centre for a country university. Bendigo would be the base for a multicampus country university with community campuses at Morwell and Ballarat. 
We progress to 13 February when a decision was made by the Victorian Government that the fourth university would be built on a 3-campus basis and established in the 3 cities of Bendigo, Ballarat and Geelong. The Government stated that legislation to establish a new university was expected to be introduced in the autumn session of the Victorian Parliament. That was reported in the 'Age' of 13 February. The report went on: 
It will cater especially for external students studying by correspondence. It will be called the University of Victoria and will be the first multi-campus university in Australia. 
On 7 May 1973 a report which appeared in the 'Age' referred to the University of Dandenong. Reports were coming from all around the place. The 'Age' report stated: 
At all events the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education have decided that Melbourne's fourth university should be a single-campus institution and that it should be located in the Dandenong area. 
They had their minds made up before any decision was made at government level. On 13 November 1973 yet another report appeared in the 'Age'. I am sorry to quote so much from the same newspaper, but it carried the relevant reports. The article of 13 November stated: 
Fourth university plan likely to be scrapped  the AUC headed by Professor Peter Karmel recently joined the Australian Commission on Advanced Education in publicly criticising the Victorian proposal. 
That refers to the 3-campus proposal - 
The Commission will then inspect sites at Geelong. Ballarat and Bendigo where the university's three campuses are planned. 
What a ridiculous situation. What a waste of public funds when the decision had already been made. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  had made up his mind. The Australian Universities Commission had made up its mind that there was not to be a 3-campus university. But then it was decided that the Universities Commission would have to file this magnificent report which contradicts itself all the way through. Finally, in order to appease the Government, it decided that the fourth university was to be sited at Geelong. To herald that decision a report appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald' on 20 February 1974. It stated: 
Geelong university plan irks Bendigo. 
And it did- 
Geelong seems certain to get Victoria's fourth university. A report from the Australian Universities Commission has rejected the State Government's proposal for a multi-campus university. The Federal Education Minister,  Mr Beazley,  has studied the report and written to the Prime Minister outlining its recommendations and his views. 
Geelong appears to have got the nod over the other two cities. ... 
I might add that that report appeared a week before it was actually mentioned officially in Government circles. Then we come to 26 February, when the official announcement was made that Geelong would get the fourth university. Of course, I am very disappointed as also are the people in Bendigo, Ballarat and the surrounding areas at not getting the fourth university on the proposed 3-campus basis. But I am also disappointed that there had to be an unofficial leak of the news from the responsible Government department. It appears to be a tendency of this Labor Government that it cannot wait and do things in the normal, proper manner and make announcements through Parliament. The Government lets out leaks to the newspapers on reports that are to be presented and, therefore, Parliament is sidestepped. 
I said that it was a Government leak. I hope that the Minister is not suggesting that Karmel runs the Government. A further result of this decision which particularly affects Bendigo relates to the fact that early in 1973, $3.75m was approved to be spent at the college at Bendigo. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates),  who has left the chamber, made great haste to say that an amount of $40,000 had been approved for expenditure in his electorate. I only hope that he gets it because, originally, $3. 75m was approved for expenditure at the State college of education, formerly the teachers' college, in order to build a resources building and a library. However, the news then came through of the Karmel Committee's report. We were waiting on this report - waiting on the decision that had already been made. The college was then told that this money was to be held up and that the buildings were not to be proceeded with. 
As we are all aware, there has been rises in the costs of goods and in the costs of buildings and there has been an accelerating rise in the cost of putting up huge buildings. The delay in the provision of this money meant that there was almost a daily loss factor in the amount that the authorities could build for the money available. It was not until after Christmas - this report was supposed to be out before Christmas - that it was announced that the college could go ahead and build the resources building at a cost of $ 1.75m. However, it was not allowed to go ahead with the $2m proposal for the library and it has not yet got the nod on this. Why hold up this very vital, urgently needed building? This Government claims it is doing something for education. It claims it is looking after the urgent needs of the teachers and the students. Yet the building of a $ 1.75m resources building was held up for 6 months because, although a decision already had been made, this Government and its administration played around because* it was not prepared to go ahead and announce the decision as to where the fourth university was to go. With accelerating building costs, probably added money will need to be supplied by this Government when it finally gives the go-ahead on the library building, if and when that ever comes along. 
I turn now to the Grants Commission. Let me look at what is really behind this proposal to supply money to local government. Firstly, we have the proposal to assist local governments on a regional basis. Areas were delineated by the Federal Government. Australia was broken up into various regions with the very good excuse that the Government would be able to supply money on a regional basis. This meant of course that each local government area had to amalgamate with various other local governments to formulate a joint policy and present a submission to the Government. However, after the local governments had gone to all that trouble and the joint policy had been worked out they were informed that for the next 12 months the grant would be made to the individual local governments and that grants would be made thereafter on the regional basis. I ask the Government: What is the real reason for creating regions? I warn the local governments that what is really behind this move is the obvious intention of the Government to do away not only with State governments, which is the plan of this socialist government, but also to do away with local government in its existing form and to establish regions which would be more easily controlled by a centralist and socialist government. At the moment the grants are to go to the States because of the legislation which we were able to add, and they will go to approved regions. But who approves the amount of the grant? It will be the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. How can he or his Department know the needs of a local area in Western Australia better than the Western Australian Government? The same applies to an area in South Australia, Queensland or Tasmania for that matter. 
I thank the honourable doctor. I was going to say the Minister for - I was going to say Canned Tomatoes, but that is not the place. I thank the honourable member for that interjection because that is the very point. If the Federal Government wants ' to save the Australian people and cut down on inflation let it cut out some of its bureaucracy and give the money it is paying into this great Department of Urban and Regional Development to the State governments as added funds. How much extra money would the State governments have if they had this money instead of it being spent on an extra bureaucracy as this Government is doing? The Parties on this side of the chamber are concerned for local government. It is the future of the regions which is worrying local government. They will see through the scheme to present this referendum. The people will not be fooled by this proposal which is dangling the carrot of immediate money. They know full well that one can spend a dollar only once. Even some of the honourable members opposite can rationalise that. If the Government gives money direct to local government how will it give sufficient money to State governments to support local government? Obviously this will balance out. They will get the same net amount of money. I warn State governments and local governments to be very careful in how they approach the receiving of this money from the Federal Government. I refer to a submission which I have been asked to present from the Shire of Strathfieldsaye which is a shire in the area of Bendigo. It forms part of the region but, at the moment, it refuses to join the region. The Shire council has asked me to direct this submission to the Minister. Unfortunately he is not here but he can have a copy. In the opinion of this council assistance should be: 
provide aid for local government as a whole, and not merely for selected municipalities and areas; 
ensure unconditional per capita grants to every revenue; 
enable further revenue supplementation where necessary, without strings attached, in accordance with State assessments of needs; 
These are the best people to assess the needs and not a centralist government. The submission continues: 
appropriate a guaranteed percentage of Commonwealth tax revenue to provide budgetary supplementation for local government on a growth basis; 
entrust distribution of funds to existing State Local Government Departments - without need for costly, new, remote and bureaucratic machinery. 
That is a very good statement. 
No, I did not write it for them. They are very clever people in my electorate and they are able to think for themselves. Unfortunately people on the honourable member's side of the House cannot think for themselves. Now I turn to pensions and superannuation. One of the problems which concerns me - I hope it concerns some of the honourable members on the Government side - is that many people on superannuation or on a pension who have gained by their frugal and prudent work over the years and who have been able to obtain their own homes find that they are completely disadvantaged when compared with the pensioner who is actually renting a home. The person renting a home has the benefit of applying for and receiving a $4 a week rental allowance. But the person owning his own home cannot obtain that $4 a week and he has the added burden of paying rates. I suggest that the Government should have a close look at this situation and I hope that the Government and Opposition will support it. Where the person on a basic level of income, irrespective of his asset backing, owns his own home, and a means test applies, he should be entitled to have some subsidy to assist in paying his rates. I look at a comment as reported in the 'Sun' of 12 April 1973. The headline is: 
Canberra Cash to Peg Council rates. 
It is by the Minister for DURD. Some people do not spell it DURD. This article states: 
The Federal Government will start a multimilliondollar loan scheme to curb Council rate rises. 
It is yet to start. The Victorian Government at least has put up a proposal to local government whereby it will subsidise, on a basis of either deferment or total payment up to $40 of pensioner rates. It has not received any assistance from the Federal Government in subsidising this fund and I doubt whether it is ever likely to get any assistance. It is a pity that the Federal Government did not put its money where its mouth is and come up with some funds not only for the pensioners but also for the other people who have to pay rates. If it did we would say that it really was doing something, as the honourable member for Denison tried to make out. The people would be very doubtful as to how much money the Federal Government would give to local government if they realised that it did not offer to assist in any way despite this great statement under the headline 'Canberra Cash to Peg Council Rates'. 
The next matter on which I wish to touch is tariff protection. It has been mentioned by various speakers but I want to draw attention to the concern felt by the small industries producing woven goods and shirts in the metropolitan areas but more particularly in country areas. Again, of course, these industries are of no concern to this Government. We will find that if the special tariff protection is deleted, as is proposed by this Government, there will be a flood of cheaper goods into this country. This will put a lot of factories almost out of business, if not out of business altogether. It is all very well to say, as the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  stated, that the Government will institute retraining schemes. He has done nothing to date about retraining the unemployed in country areas and has stopped the flow of money made available to local governments, through the State governments, to provide assistance in the form of unemployment relief whereby local councils could employ unfortunate people who are out of work. 
The Minister will find that there is a flood of people out of work. The unemployed will be mainly women. The women in country areas and city areas who work in factories are the ones who will suffer and will be out of work. They can be retrained, certainly. The Commonwealth can waste money in retraining them, not in the sense that they will not learn something, but where are they going to apply the knowledge gained? It will not be applied in the same country areas because there are no facilities to engage them. Once they are out of work, that is it, and they will not be re-engaged. If this Government does not control tariff protection it will find that there will be a backlash that it will not forget for a long time. 
Much has been said about the PostmasterGeneral's Department and unfortunately I have to agree with all members of the Opposition about the move by the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to close post offices on Saturday mornings. He made great statements to the Press in which he said that he was opposed to it but let us face the facts. He has been talking in this House for about 6 months about closing post offices and down grading post offices because they are not profitable and are too costly. He sees quite clearly that he can save the Government money and to heck with the service to the public. He decided to close these post offices and he supported the unions when they turned down the postmen. 
Listen to Heckle and leckie over there,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  You get tired of listening to them interject. Heckle nearly put me off my train of thought but he will not do that. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that persons accepted to operate non-official post offices are officially named and accepted as postmasters? Is the Postmaster-General aware that postmasters at official post offices, acting under instructions from the Australian' Postmasters'  Asociation,  are changing from 'postmaster' to 'postal agent' the title on correspondence to postmasters at non-official post offices. Does the Postmaster-General endorse this action? If not, will he issue instructions to stop this petty action by the Australian Postmasters' Association which is only causing unnecessary and added discontent within the postal service? 
Honourable members on this side of the House are not opposing the Bill and we are not endeavouring to hold it up. I point out to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  who is on his own team, spoke for his full 20 minutes and waffled on about the same things to which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  referred in his second reading speech when introducing the Bill. The people who are to receive this money are not satisfied with the proposal. The amount of boasting that is going on about the number of times that the Government has raised pensions is all very interesting, but honourable members opposite have forgotten to mention how much inflation has increased and eroded any benefits which the people will receive. Honourable members opposite have referred to the fact that no tax is imposed on war pensions, but they have imposed tax on ordinary pensions, which means that the Service pension is taxed. 
I will not go very much into the amounts that will be given to recipients - they have been repeated and repeated - but I should like to draw the Minister's attention to a couple of areas that should be looked at. Firstly, the wife of a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner receives an extra allowance of $8.10 a fortnight. I understand that this has been the standard rate of allowance for many years. I would think that when one considers the way in which money has been devalued by inflation over the years, the allowance should at least be doubled; it should be about $16.20 a fortnight. With the present means test, a TPI pensioner is allowed to have a miserable $840 in the bank to qualify for the TPI pension. That is quite inconceivable when the amount is compared with the amount of money that an ordinary pensioner is allowed to have in a bank account before he is affected by the means test. I am well aware, as is the Minister, that the TPI pensioner is receiving an added income by way of a war pension but, nevertheless, with the value of money today, $840 is a miserable amount to have in the bank to qualify for a TPI pension. This matter should be looked at and the amount could be increased perhaps to $2,000 or $3,000. 
Then I come to medical entitlement cards for wives of TPI pensioners. At the time when this benefit was restricted or taken away by the previous Government, there was sufficient differentiation between the amount of income that their husbands were receiving through the pension and the ordinary pension to make it unnecessary to give medical entitlement cards to wives of TPI pensioners. But surely to goodness, with the increased cost of hospital beds today and considering the fact that these wives are not entitled to receive the ordinary medical entitlement cards, it is time that this question was reviewed, with a view to assisting wives of TPI pensioners because many of them are reaching the age where they themselves are becoming old through the obvious complaint of old age, and they are suffering the usual sicknesses that occur with that unfortunate circumstance. The problem is that their husbands who are TPI pensioners obviously are afflicted in some way. But these' wives cannot look after their husbands, and the cost of having them looked after would be more than the amount of pension which they are receiving. I think that this is one area at which the Government should be looking in an endeavour to do something. I do not think that the cost would be great, but the benefit would be tremendous and it would be greatly appreciated by the people concerned. 
Another area that concerns me, as it must concern many members on both sides of the House if they operate properly within their electorate, refers to the number of problems that are brought to the attention of members of Parliament by members of the returned Services - those who are in receipt of totally and permanently incapacitated pensions, temporarily and totally incapacitated pensions and 100 per cent pensions. Persons over age 60 years - there are probably more now over age 60 than under that age - in receipt of these pensions are called up for a reassessment or another medical check. They find subsequently that their pension has been cut. I cannot understand how it can be suggested that a man of 60 who has been on a TPI or TrI pension has suddenly improved in health to the stage where he can return to work. If his improvement has been such, where will he get a job? Is there no common sense approach to this matter? Surely it is about time the situation was examined and it was determined that once a man reached a certain age his pension level could only be increased, not decreased. 
There is also the matter of reassessments by appeals tribunals. Again problems arise. A war pensioner treated by his local repatriation doctor is advised to apply for a reassessment of his pension because that doctor thinks he is totally unfit for further work. If he is aged more than 60 or retired he believes that because of his ailments he should receive an extra pension.  His  local doctor sends him to Melbourne where his examination by a medical officer at the Repatriation Department is brief. I am not suggesting that the medical officers at the Repatriation Department are inefficient; I realise that they are probably extremely busy. The problem is that after that brief examination the person returns to his home and subsequently receives notification that nothing further is wrong with him. In fact, it often happens that such people are advised that their pension has been reduced. This is the same situation as applies with respect to normal reassessments, as I have mentioned earlier. It is time there was some hard line policy that when a man reaches a certain age his pension should not be reduced because through the use of good medicine his health has slightly improved. Unlike the honourable member for Barton I do not want to speak for 20 minutes waffling about unnecessary items. The Opposition supports the Bill. I only hope that the Government takes action to correct the anomalies I have mentioned. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice; 
Is it a fact that the distribution of taxation refunds for 1972-73 has been much slower than in previous years. 
Is is also a fact that the processing of taxation assessments for 1972-73 has been considerably slower. 
If the position is as stated- (a) what is the reason for the delay and(b) what steps has he taken to speed up these operations. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
Has the Victorian Government made an approach to the Australian Government seeking assistance for its proposal to provide $40 rates deferment for pensioners. 
If so, what is the attitude of the Government to the proposal. 
If no approach has yet been received, is the Government prepared to assist in this program to aid pensioners. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the total cost of the recent Australian Bureau of Statistics survey to seek public opinion on the tune of the Anthem. 
Will full details of the public response be published. 
Will 'God Save The Queen' be retained and used by the Australian Government if so, on what occasions. 
If one of the three tunes considered is selected, will the present words of the selected tune be used or will new words be required. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry by drawing his attention to the statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister recently that indus.tires adversely affected by the Government's action in cutting tariffs and lifting the quotas would receive some form of compensation. Will the Minister advise this House what form of compensation is available? Where does an industry apply for this aid? Has any so far been granted? 
-1 support the motion moved by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass).  I had the privilege of representing not only this side of the House but also my electorate of Bendigo on this Committee last year. 1 compliment the Minister on the excellent work carried out by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who was  Chairman  of that Committee. I think the people of Australia are aware - this House is certainly aware - that as a result of some of our inquiries quite a lot has been achieved, particularly in Central Australia around Ayers Rock. I congratulate the Minister. I sincerely hope that the good work is carried on this year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Not quite. I did that this time last year. I will be delighted when I hear yours.  Mr Speaker,  in speaking in the Address-in-Reply debate I would like firstly to extend to you my congratulations on being re-elected to the office of  Speaker.  Obviously the shock was far too great for you, because you immediately had to go away to recover. Of course, we are delighted to see you back on deck and we look forward to a good year under your control. I also offer my congratulations to those honourable members on the Government side who moved and seconded the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child).  Also, and particularly, I congratulate the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  on this side of the House. All three presented their maiden speeches and I congratulate them on their efforts. I am sure we will hear a lot more from them all. 
The Governor-General's Speech was made by the now former Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck. Unfortunately it marked the end of his reign as Governor-General. I believe that all of us in the Parliament respect the manner in which he carried out his duties and I am sure that we wish him well in his retirement from that position. The GovernorGeneral's Speech, when one looks at it, is a very slim and almost insignificant paper. It has many fewer pages than the last one presented in 1973, which was full of many promises very few of which we saw carried out. This time we have fewer pages and fewer promises and perhaps we will see one or two of them fulfilled. Let us hope they come to fruition. It is pleasing that on this occasion we did not see the word 'mandate' that was bandied around so much last year. At last the Government has realised that it has not got the mandate it thought it had. On every occasion last year when there was some obvious flaw in the Govenment's management - or should I say mismanagement? - and it was pointed out by the Opposition, all the Government could do was sqawk that it was the fault of the Opposition when it was in government in previous years. But after 16 months that has worn a little thin, so the Government has come up with a new one. It says now that it is our fault because of the hold-up occasioned by the double dissolution. I always thought that it was the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who called the double dissolution and not the Opposition. However, that is the excuse of honourable members on the Government side, and they are sticking to it. 
The first part of the Governor-General's Speech to which I draw attention is where he referred to protection for the weaker sections of the community. This is a very real and important problem facing us all, but let us look at the Government's attitude to protection for the weak in the community. What is happening? Let us consider the social security area and the nursing home benefit. It took the Government over 16 months to realise that something needed to be done and when the Government finally decided to do something it was still far short of the required mark. When the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  announced in the House last week that new increased rates were to come into effect on 1 August, the Government was subsidising nursing homes to the extent of $67.90 per bed per week. However, for the new benefit to come in on 1 August the Government for some reason or other has picked the odd amount of $29 per week as an increase. The benefits are always given on a daily basis. Obviously the Government could not work that out so it gave a lump sum per week and instead of $28 or $35 a week which would have brought the benefit into line with other daily calculations, we find the amount of $29 a week. This lifts the total benefit to S96.90 per bed per week. Many may say that that is very good, that it is a large amount of money for the Government to pay by way of subsidy to nursing homes. But in most of these nursing homes the pensioners - unlike the position the Minister would have us believe to be. true, that is that they are left with $4 a week of their pension to spend - are having to meet a shortfall of $13.60 a week to maintain the charging rates set out and standardised by the Department of Social Security, not by the nursing homes. Then we have the Minister saying that it is the taxpayer who has to pay. 
Let us look at the position of Government nursing homes, the ones that are covered by Federal Government grants, and compare it with the position of homes that are subsidised by the State governments. If that is not a subsidy by the taxpayer, what is? There is such an extreme shortage in the availability of Government homes that they are not able to house adequately all the people that need attention. Therefore there is a real need to provide and assist these private nursing homes. I believe it is up to the Government to lift this subsidy by at least another $5 or $6 per week to bring it to a realistic level. In fact the subsidy should be sufficient to make sure that a person who is on the pension should not have to pay any money at all to get into these homes and should not be left wondering where to go for care. The private hospitals and registered nursing homes - there are 2 types - are forced into the situation where the only people they can admit are those who can afford to pay. They are forced into that situation by a socialist government which claims to be dedicated to working for the people in need. But what does the government do? It forces the homes that are providing a place for people in need to cater only for those who are able to pay. What a ridiculous situation this is. 
Some of the private hospitals, notably the ones that are run by charitable organisations, try to cover the gap and consequently we have a situation where people who cannot afford to pay are still able to enter. But the private nursing home, the one operated by the individual on the basis of charges laid down by the Department of Social Security - and you can bet your life that they are not over-profitable charges - cannot afford to subsidise these people and can take only people who can afford to pay. The Minister is totally wrong in his assessment of this situation and he should do something about it. It is a slight on the people who operate the homes to say that they are taking advantage of the situation in order to make money. The regulations laid down by the various State health departments and the hospitals and charities commissions stipulate that these homes have to be operated by qualified nursing people and under very severe regulations. There is no way that they can take advantage of people. They provide a service that is badly needed. 
The next area I want to refer to is that of homes for the aged. Here the Minister is not aware of the situation at all. Like the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  he has not realised that building costs have gone up. He is still trying to have these hostels for the aged built for $9,000 or $ 1 1 ,000 a unit when in every State the cost of building these units is roughly $13,000 or higher. We have a situation where the Minister for Social Security and this Government are prepared to offer a $2 for $1 grant up to $9,000. In the House the other day, after the Minister had appointed a commission to go right around Australia and make inquiries in every State about the needs in this area, and this was achieved, we had the reply of that commission given. It was that the ceiling needed to be lifted, the $9,000 subsidy limit and the ceiling cost per unit of $11,000 raised to a higher level to bring them into line with current costs. But what do we find? The Minister comes into the House and, probably off the cuff, says: 'We are going to make it a $4 for $1 grant'. A $4 for $1 grant does not mean a thing unless the subsidy ceiling of $9,000 is lifted. Really all he is saying is that instead of a $2 for $1 grant, which I think represents something like $6,000 out of $9,000, the Government will give something like $7,200 out of $9,000. That is mighty; it is tremendous, provided one can build the places, but when the cost of building is limited, it does not matter whether one has all of the $9,000, one still cannot build the houses. The situation across Australia is that the building of none of these hostels can proceed. In Bendigo alone, 3 organisations are ready to go ahead - their plans are drawn up - with the building of homes for over 200 people. Those organisations cannot proceed with their building until the Minister is prepared to say that the ceiling price is lifted. That again is a a situation in which only those people, who can afford to pay are being catered for, because the differential gap makes these homes available only to those people who can afford to pay for them. 
That is totally a policy of deceit, as my colleague has said. If the limits as well as the subsidy for accommodation were to be increased we could go ahead and provide urgently needed accommodation which in turn would take the strain off the program for building government homes and off other housing programs and would generally ease the whole problem facing aged people. This is a growing problem. I have some figures relating to the growth of the aged population from 1961 to 1971 in Australia. In 1961 there were 510,000 aged persons. By 1971 that had grown to 1,050,000 aged persons, an increase of roughly 100 per cent. During the same period the population of Australia increased by a mere 20 per cent. So one can see that this is a growing problem which must be attacked and attacked properly. 
The Minister for Social Security has stated that he must wait for his Party to make a decision on whether he will be able to lift these ceiling limits. I believe that it is the prerogative of the Minister to do it, but he claims that he must wait on a decision. My colleague, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  suggested recently that the Minister should back-date payments for nursing home benefits. 1 suggest to the Minister that if his Government is vitally concerned to do something about this problem he should introduce the measures now to overcome the problems in respect of nursing home benefits and homes for aged persons. The Opposition would support those measures. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  stated regularly last year that he did not believe that a Budget should necessarily be presented only once annually; he was going to make sure that various components of the Budget would be introduced when the need existed for that action to be taken. The need is here. This matter is supposed to be one of those social welfare needs about which honourable members opposite skite that they wish to take some action. But what do they do? Nothing. The excuse that they use is that they are waiting for the Budget. Perhaps they are. Perhaps they have found that they have overspent. Honourable members on the Government side talk about the protection provided to the weaker section of the community by this Government. What a great statement that is when the Government immediately proposes that in the next Budget it will cut the tax rebate for pensioners from $156 to $130. Is that an example of giving protection to the weaker section of the community? Is that an example of providing assistance to the aged? Not at all. That proposal is a complete and utter embarrassment to this Government. When the appropriate time arrives, our aged people will not forget that action. These taxation rebates should be increased, not reduced. 
Last week, the announcement was made that war widows were to be deprived of their travelling allowance. I am sure that the Treasurer will find the coffers of his Treasury filled with the savings from that miserable decision. That is the most petty and miserable action since this Government took milk from the children of this nation last year. If honourable members look at page 11 of the printed copy of the Speech delivered by the former Governor-General, they will see in small type mention of defence. The GovernorGeneral said: 
Under the direction of the Minister for Defence, my Government is creating the most effective, mobile and professional defence force in Australia's peacelime history. 
What a joke. Honestly, that would be the greatest joke. It is almost as funny as the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is. The defence force is certainly mobile. There are no numbers to hold up its mobility. The defence force can be moved anywhere at any time by the use of a couple of caravans. Is it effective? It is totally ineffective. As for being professional, if one studies the figures coming from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  one will find that increasingly the professionals, the real people who are required to operate and control our armed forces, are retiring. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to a statement which appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun-News Pictorial' on 2 July this year. The article stated: 
The strength of the defence forces fell further behind targets in May. 
That was published prior to the presentation of the Governor-General's Speech. The article went on: 
Australia's defence strength has fallen by more than 1,500 servicemen in the first 5 months of this year. 
Mostly that comprises officers who have resigned. On 7 June 1974, in his opening address to the Premiers Conference, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made a statement with respect to the defence situation, in which he said: 
Retrenchments will, however, become necessary in certain areas - for one thing to keep the right sort of balance in employment. Where dismissals become necessary the Government will ensure that steps are taken to help the individual concerned to move into other employment . . . 
I look at that statement and say: 'Right, in 
Bendigo we have the Bendigo Ordnance Factory'. 1 point out to the House that last year the Minister for Defence - he was also Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Supply, Minister for the Army, Minister for the Navy and Minister for Air; and he was so successful that he lost all but one of those portfolios - promised the world to a delegation that I brought here to see him. He said that there would be no more retrenchments in the Bendigo Ordnance Factory. He said this at the same time as he promised that no further retrenchments would occur in other ordnance factories and Government munitions factories throughout the country. But of course, he is no longer on the plate. 
We have a new Minister in charge of this area- which is now covered by the portfolio of Manufacturing Industry. So, we must look to the new Minister to uphold that promise. I sincerely hope that he does carry out the promise that these people will not be retrenched. If not, I would like to know where the tradesmen at the Bendigo Ordnance Factory are to find alternative jobs in Bendigo without having to uproot their families and shift to the metropolitan area. There is no way in the world that they can do that. If that happens, it will be a total disaster. The Bendigo Ordnance Factory is the biggest single employer of people in Bendigo. We cannot afford to have such a situation develop. The Government should carry out the promise to find extra work and to provide additional contracts which it undertook to do last year, but did nothing about. It is time that the Government did something about it. 
I turn to the reductions in tariff and the lifting of import quotas. This is a great example of providing a service to the nation. This action was designed to cut down the inflationary spiral. We all know the great effect that the action had. The inflationary spiral has continued to rise. Let me illustrate the real effect that this action has had on the Australian textile industry which employs 80 per cent women the majority of whom are married. A number of these textile firms are in country areas. What will happen to the people working in the textile industry if they lose their jobs? Are they to be retrained? If so, where will they go? Where will they find another job? Is the Government suddenly setting itself up as a body which will move whole families from country areas to metropolitan areas? The Government has promised to consider reintroducing quotas and increasing tariffs on textile imports. All right, let us see some action. 
If I remember correctly, the then Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is now  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade, came into the House and made the statement very dramatically that his Government had taken this great step of introducing a 23 per cent tariff cut across the board. This action was hailed as one of great enterprise, a marvellous action which took only a few hours to develop. Why does it take so long for the Government to work in reverse? Why cannot the Minister walk in here tonight or on the first sitting day next week and tell us that he is now going to reimpose those quotas? Why does he not increase the tariff to the former level? The Minister can do this as expeditiously as he lifted the quotas and reduced the tariff. The people in the country are waiting for the Minister to act because he mentioned that he was going to do something about it. He said that nearly 2 weeks ago. So far as we have heard or seen nothing further from the Minister. Let us look at the development of the Albury-Wodonga region by the Cities Commission. This is a typical example of Government bungling. Obviously, it looks like being another bad Government decision but we have come to expect this. The Minister who was- 
Not very much. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who was going to redevelop the Dandenong Ranges and was going to buy back all the houses in that area for that purpose rushed in and made a quick decision. Let me quote to the honourable member for Robertson, who is sitting in his wrong seat on the Government side, the words of the Minister who criticised that proposal- 
Yes. The honourable member asked whether the Government did anything good. Who criticised the proposals of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development? It was the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  who said that the Federal Government had taken a punt on the choice of the site. He went on to say that the Government may have been wrong in choosing Albury-Wodonga, that the statement of the Minister for Urban and 
Regional Development was a rash one and it was obviously a rushed decision. This is the type of Government that is in office. Government Ministers cannot even agree with each other. One Minister makes a statement and the Prime Minister contradicts it. Somebody else makes a statement and the next week has a different portfolio. This is the Government that is trying to convince us that it is destined to run this country. It is an utter and abject failure. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice:  '(1) Is a portrait of Her Majesty The Queen still supplied with the Australian Flag to schools; if not, why not. 
Has it been the custom to supply a portrait of Her Majesty in order that it could be appropriately displayed in the schools. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the recently announced increase of SO per cent in the salaries of certain officers of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, did he telegraph this organisation requesting restraint at the same time that he telegraphed State Premiers seeking their co-operation on this matter. 
If not, will he seek restraint by the Victorian Branch, and request that the salary increase be deferred. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his Press Release of 30 July 1 974 in which he referred to the prompt action taken in controlling the import licence on goods from Taiwan, does he propose to impose the same control on the other countries mentioned as promptly as the action was taken on Taiwan; if not, why not. 
Will it be necessary to waste taxpayers moneys on a long trip to visit these countries, and thus to delay the action by months, when a simple restriction on imports would solve the immediate problem; if so, why. 
Will he consider imposing immediate restrictions on imports, and then discussing the matter with the countries concerned. 
-In rising to speak in the adjournment debate I feel that I must say something about the Budget which was presented tonight. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman would be out of order in debating it. 
-In that case I will not say anything about the Budget, but I will say something about defence. Let us have a look at the defence situation. I think the only comment I could make about the Budget without being out of order is that defence was the last item in a Budget which was not in alphabetical order. 
I listened with interest to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  particularly to the comments which he made about which side of the Speaker's Chair he sits before he makes up his mind. I agree with the assessment made by my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  that while the Opposition is not opposing this Bill it is certainly prepared to offer some comments on it. One well recalls the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  when introducing his mini-Budget mentioning that the measures introduced were designed as anti-inflationary measures. The proposal to implement increased postal charges at that stage was defeated in the Senate because those increases were considered to be inflationary. Government supporters took great delight in saying that this was a lot of rot and that the Opposition's attitude on this matter was the result of bad organisation. But let me inform the House who supported the view taken by the Opposition. I refer, as did the honourable member for Gippsland, to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  that man of great moment who supported the view that the increases were not anti-inflationary but would be inflationary. The  Deputy  Prime Minister was also supported in that view by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  Obviously the Government did not believe in the measures that it was introducing. This shows the hopeless mismanagement from which we suffer under this socialist Government. 
The Post and Telegraph Rates Bill proposes several areas of increase. Firstly it proposes to raise the postal charge from 7c to 10c instead of from 7c to 9c as was proposed previously. The increased charge is designed to reap the same amount of money as would have been collected over a longer term if the charge had been 9c. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  might perhaps agree that these increases should be made. But it appears to me that this Government which is steadfastly on the side of the poor, the under-privileged and the low income-earner, is directly attacking those who have less money. A pensioner will have to pay 10c to post a letter. Perhaps the Minister in his kindness and wisdom might look at the possibility of creating a second stamp for pensioners. But the Government is making an attack on the low income-earner and the pensioner. It is typical of all the actions which the Government has taken. We find that the Government has introduced measures in the recent Budget, the mini-Budget and on other occasions over the last 12 to 18 months that have amounted to some liability for people on the lower end of the income scale. 
In the last 12 months under this Government we have seen the Post Office discontinue to deliver mail on Saturday mornings. This was followed by the then Postmaster-General's agreeing with the trade unions and closing post offices on Saturday morning. Also, the Government is applying pressure to try to close non-official post offices which are privately run and which are prepared to provide a necessary service to the public. Let us face the fact that it is the ordinary citizen who uses the post office on a Saturday morning, and not big business. So we again see this slanted attack on the lower income and pensioner level. Surely it is possible now for the Special Minister of State who is at the table, and the Postmaster-General in another place to look at the effect of the increase of nearly 50 per cent in postal charges. In this event the Government might even consider re-opening post offices on Saturday mornings and giving us a little service, something which is terribly lacking. However, I doubt that the Government would achieve that success and provide that service to the public. 
I refer now to bulk postage rates for periodicals. Again we see an attack on those who cannot afford it. The people who use this service and the people who need it are mostly charitable organisations that operate on a non-profit level and whose only means of communication with the public and their members is by posting periodical newsletters. These organisations have always been able to enjoy a measure of low-price postage. In the next 12 months the rate for material of this kind will rise by 50 per cent and from 1975 it will increase a further 33  V&gt;  per cent, which in total effect means that in 12 months there will be an increase of about 100 per cent. Telephone rental charges have increased for the ordinary person from $55 a year to $75 a year. For business people the rental has increased from $55 to $85. One can understand that there is a need for an increase considering the present economic situation, the cost of living increases and so on. It seems to me that a 50 per cent increase is a bit steep, even in this day and age. Perhaps the Government has anticipated that the rate of inflation will be as high as 50 per cent. 
The Minister stated in his second reading speech that it was inequitable for the private individuals, the residents, to bear the added cost increases due to the actions of the Opposition in rejecting the postal charges in July. The Government has decided, in its undoubted desire to attack the private sector, that it is to be the industry sector that will pay the added cost to make up the amount that is claimed to be lost. What a ridiculous situation we have. A Minister says it is inequitable for the residents to carry the cost. Does he really believe that industry will carry all these charges? Wage costs rise almost weekly. Industry has had increased costs slanted at it from every direction. Industrial operations have to try to remain in business because after all, as I have pointed out before often enough, without industry there is no employment. 
The situation is that a proportion of the costs will have to be passed on. History shows over and over again that if the cost of a single article is increased by a very low percentage, by the time the article passes through the various sectors of the industry, the retailers or any other organisation, the price of it multiplies immensely. The end result is that in order to protect itself, as it must if it is to survive, the charges incurred in carrying these costs are passed on to the public which will be far worse off overall. The obvious thing is that any cost factor must increase the level of inflation. It does not matter what small percentage of inflationary level is achieved, it is still adding to the growing burden. We know that the Government's action towards the decentralised industries is definitely a joke. The Government has no real desire to decentralise industries. 
Absolutely not, as my colleague says. It is a joke with this Government. 
Let us look at the 1972 election. Members of the Labor Party made very guarded statements. They covered themselves fairly carefully, but that is understandable because they are a crafty lot. They made pseudo promises that there would be standard telephone charges throughout the country. They said they would look into this matter. They said that this would be the greatest thing for country people and industries. What did we find? They did not carry out that promise. Instead they lifted the country differential on telephone rentals, which meant that not only industries but also the poor people the Government is supposed to protect, including the pensioners, copped an extra blast. The Government has now increased rentals with no differential for people in the country. Country telephone charges are so much higher because country people have to make trunk-line calls more often than their city competitors, but they will be caught up also in the web of higher telephone rentals. I suggest that the Government should look at the situation and try to do something for industry. 
The cost for calls from public telephones has risen from 5c to 10c- a mere 100 per cent increase. It is not a bad sort of increase. I think I heard the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  complaining about a 100 per cent to 200 per cent profit being made on imported goods. He should ask his own government how it justifies the sort of cop now proposed. After all, who will pay that great charge? Surely not the socalled rich person who has a telephone in his own home; it will be the poor people and the low-income earners who will be slugged. In his second reading speech the Minister points to an agreement with the United States and the United Kingdom which will enable us to have a faster postal service. This will be great, because the quickest way to get a letter from Bendigo to Melbourne will be to post it through the U.S. It now takes two or three days to get a letter from Bendigo to Melbourne, so it will be a great bit of service. I am sure the people in my area will be delighted. It takes the people who live 40 or 50 miles out of Bendigo a day or two to have letters delivered. Perhaps we will be able to send letters through the U.S. It might be a bit more expensive but we will be able to get a bit of service. 
The employees are forbidden from giving service because the Government has cut it out. The proposed improved service is great news. Perhaps we will find some service boost to our local area. 
The way we are heading reminds one of the situation in another country where one is lucky if his letter is delivered at all after posting. Recently there was a train travelling from town to town loaded with baggage cars, each totally stacked with mail, because the postal authorities under that particular socialist government were so lax and disorganised that the easiest way of getting rid of mail was to put it on the train and send it off. A lot of that mail was lost completely because it was on that train. I hope that the Postmaster-General's Department does not get to this tragic stage. Let us hope it takes some positive steps to promote something that the people in this country need- an efficient serviceinstead of driving them to outside services. The Government always wants to attack industry. I think it was the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who mentioned something about the private industry sector taking business away. Do honourable members blame industry for going to private organisations when they will give service? 
People in the major areas of Melbourne and Sydney are paying considerably more to use the private service to distribute their document exchange because they can get service when they want it. They are prepared to pay for it. This is a great loss to the postal organisation. Service is something that unfortunately this Government seems to lack. The increases proposed will lead to a 0.3 per cent increase in the cost price index. It is not a very great percentage, but as I said earlier it will build up and will add to the growing amount of inflation. If automatic wage indexation were introduced- the Government seems to be a little partial to that- the result would be a 0.4 per cent increase in wages. Who bears that cost? The public, again, or industry, which in turn passes it on. What about the possible and probable demand by unions for extra wages over and above indexation? It is unbelievable that the Government will put up charges without there being an immediate demand by all the unions concerned with the Post Office for increased wages. I would say that a fairly large demand will be made within one week. 
Finally I would comment that if this case had been considered by the Prices Justification Tribunal in its existing role it probably would have disallowed that part of the price increase that was based on cost increases which are not yet officially certain. The Minister said that the increases were required to ensure that the rates which customers pay for Post Office services are sufficient to cover costs and also to provide a surplus which can be re-invested to help meet the growing demand for services. He also indicated that the new charges were based partly on likely increases in wage rates and were designed to give an expected profit of $60m. In other words, the whole exercise has been based on probable increases. Surely to goodness that is a backward approach to the matter. An alternative method may have been to obtain funds for future capital investment by borrowing. I do not know whether this was considered. It would appear to me that there could be some advantage in borrowing funds, covering interest rates and repayments over a period and carrying them at a much less cost to the public in general 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received a request for assistance for flood relief in the Seymour area from the Victorian Government. 
If so, what action has been taken by the Government to provide funds on $ 1 for $ 1 basis. 
If funds have been provided, what sum has been paid by the Government towards flood relief in Victoria. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
) Is it intended to provide recordings of the new Anthem to schools. 
If so, when will these recordings be available. 
If recordings are not to be supplied, is it intended to retain or continue the recordings of the National Anthem God Save The Queen '. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that for some nine months photographs of Her Majesty The Queen have not been supplied to schools with issues of the Australian flag; if so, why. 
If the position is as stated, is it intended to supply photographs to all schools that received a flag in this period. 
If so, when will the supply of photographs be recommenced. 
Is it intended to continue to supply the photograph of Her Majesty. 
-I join my colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  in complimenting the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  on the States Grants (Universities) Bill in its overall context, but I would like to draw attention to one or two of the Minister's statements in his second reading speech. He says that special grants are to be made to universities for special purposes. He can only be complimented on this. Perhaps I should query the allocation of money for the establishment of courses or chairs of community practice. The honourable member for Moreton raised a point while the Minister was out of the House. He wished to know exactly the definition of courses or chairs of community practice. After all, are we looking at management or medical training of social workers in community health centres. I understand that the community health centres that have been established are finding more difficulty in obtaining medical assistance than they are in obtaining managerial assistance that is needed to run them. Perhaps the Minister can explain that to us in due course. 
Money is to be made available to increase the number of social workers in training. This is very good, but the Minister may or may not be aware that when the social workers go into an area under the jurisdiction of a local government authority they are restricted by certain regulations. At the moment I think that 50 per cent of aged persons in an area must be under the care of these social workers before the local government authority can qualify for the grants. It is not always possible to satisfy this requirement. Some areas which need social workers cannot meet this requirement. I would ask the Minister to confer with his colleague on this point so that social workers can do the work that they are trained to do. 
The Minister mentioned in his second reading speech that the Bill provides a contribution towards the cost of acquiring site for a new university at Campbelltown. I may have misunderstood, but I thought that the Minister suggested to the honourable member for Moreton by way of interjection that the State Governments make the decisions on the universities and the Federal Government finances them. I do not know whether that is correct. Perhaps I misunderstood. 
-I thank the Minister for that explanation. I thought that in his earlier brief comment he indicated that the State made the decisions. I was going to remind him very quickly of the proposed fourth university for Victoria, in relation to which the Victorian State Government made a decision which the Australian Government promptly reversed. 
-I am. 
-It was decided by the Victorian Government that the university would be a 3-campus university. The Minister is well aware that Professor Karmel and his committee investigated the matter and suggested that the university be established at Geelong with possible extensions at Ballarat and Bendigo. That is a reversal of the decision of the State Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I think the exchanges between the honourable member for Bendigo and the Minister are very interesting, but I would ask the honourable gentleman to speak through the Chair. Perhaps the Minister will be able to reply to him later. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am sure that the Minister's comments were very important not only to those in my area but also to people in Victoria in general and I appreciate them. 
-No, I do not believe that at all, because I was well informed on the subject previously, and I do not think the Minister has in fact clarified the situation. We will not have a further discussion on that at this stage. I wonder whether the people of Campbelltown at present have a college of advanced education and a State College, or as it used to be called a teachers college. In Bendigo we had a college of advanced education which was known as the Institute of Technology and also a teachers college, which is now called the State College of Victoria, Bendigo. In 1972 a $4.25m grant was provided to this State College for capital expenditure, but because of the changing decisions made by this Australian Government and because of its decision that the college of advanced education was to amalgamate with the State College, this money was held up to this day. In 1972, when there were some 200 students fewer than there are now, the provision of additional buildings was overdue. It is quite obvious that the State College is in dire straits. I know it has forwarded a letter to the college of advanced education expressing its disgust at the manner in which this money has been held up. 
One of the side effects of this is that some $200,000 of this money has been wasted in architects ' fees for buildings on which construction is not now permitted to proceed. More to the point, the money is to be reallocated to the metropolitan area and this is probably in keeping with the centralist attitude. I am a bit disappointed and I hope that the Minister will look at the situation in regard to the College of Advanced Education and the State College in Bendigo. I have asked him about this matter previously and I mentioned it again in this context because the same situation could arise where, because of a proposal for a long term university, which we all agree will take years to develop, the progress of the existing tertiary education system is held up. I want to see progress. The money was allocated. This was positive and it was progressive- I accept and welcome that- but why the dickens can we not now get these things going? The buildings that were to be built on this complex were designed and would have worked in with the joint building situation. It seems to me that it is rather a tragedy that the students and the teaching staff at this State College are held up whilst their sister college, the CAE, is permitted to proceed with its capital expenditure. I hope the Minister takes a positive approach and authorises the State College money, but does not stop the CAE from progressing as well. 
On page 3 of the Minister's second reading speech, he made reference to fees for students. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  raised a point that I agree with, that is, that perhaps the students should have voluntary organisations. It has been brought to my notice that at La Trobe University this year two of its students were expelled from the annual August conference of the Australian Union of Students because they did not agree with the political beliefs of the people running that union. To me that is wrong. Surely the AUS was set up for the benefit of all the students and surely they should be allowed to attend meetings of their organisation. I ask the Minister to make sure before any money is paid over to these organisations that it is not being used to create a closed shop for certain sections or sectional interests in this matter. 
The Minister says that the Government is not paying money to the AUS, but is he aware of the situation in regard to the AUS and that it is trying to get him on side? I think he should have a good look at the situation from the point of view of the benefit of the education system. I did not wish to sound over critical of the whole situation and I hope that I did not, but I was drawing a parallel of reactions which have occurred in Bendigo, and no doubt Ballarat, as a result of actions taken over a decision to establish a fourth university in Victoria, and which have affected other tertiary institutions. I hope that as a result of my drawing these matters to the Minister's attention he will take action to speed up the needed works, and that he will make sure that such things do not occur in areas where new universities are planned. 
-The estimates under discussion are those for the Department of Housing and Construction. I was very interested to hear the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  mention how enthusiastic the socialist Government now is about Australian people owning their own homes. This harks a long way from the admissions made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  when he was first appointed to the portfolio and set himself out to make sure that the Australian people in fact did not get the chance to own their own homes. The money the Australian Government provides for housing is made available through the State Governments and is then dispersed in 2 sectors. Firstly the Government agency, or the Housing Commission as it is known in Victoria, gets approximately 70 per cent of the grants that are provided. The balance, 30 per cent, is provided through what is known as co-operative housing schemes. The Housing Commission funds are designed to provide a number of homes for both rent and purchase to the very low income earner. The income target set for this category at present is not to exceed approximately $104 a week excluding overtime. 
The co-operative housing societies for many years have provided housing to the person just outside that bracket but nevertheless to what is considered a fairly low income bracket. The persons in that category were able to borrow up to 90 per cent of the value of their home. For many years this always allowed this particular type of person to purchase a home with a minimum deposit and only one mortgage. Unfortunately today under this Minister's guidance, the limit set is approximately $ 1 1 5 a week including overtime. If one bothers to do a little calculation it is not hard to realise that $ 1 1 5 a week less overtime is very close to the $104 a week as for the Housing Commission rate. In effect the Government virtually has abolished the opportunities for persons in the wage bracket just above the low income earner of ever having the chance of owning their own home unless they are prepared to involve themselves in a steep second mortgage. This is brought about because of the other factorthe limited amount of the loan. 
At present the money provided under this cooperative scheme is made available on the basis of a limit of $ 1 4,000 or $ 1 5,000. Not many areas exist today where land can be purchased and a house built on it for $ 1 5,000. This socialist Minister has an attitude of saying- he proudly admits at times to being a socialist; I do not think he has ever denied that- 'We do not want people to own their own homes. We will make conditions so stringent that they will not be able to borrow the money.' After all, they have to borrow $ 14,000 at the fairly low rate of interest provided by the co-operative but then have to borrow another $5,000 or $6,000 at an extremely high interest rate on second mortgage, which means that on their incomes there is no way in the world they can afford to meet the repayments. These people are therefore reluctant to commit themselves to borrowing money from co-operatives. That is what the Minister wants. He wants homes rented, not bought. So much for the argument from the honourable member for Kingston. 
The Victorian Government has at least taken the step- I compliment it on the step- of lifting the wage limit to $120 exclusive of overtime. This will cover a wider range of people than those who can afford only to go into a housing commission home because of the level of their income, and will take in many thousands of young people who are earning more than $ 104 a week. They will be able to look forward with some hope to owning their own home and borrowing money through the co-operatives. Also, the Victorian Government has taken another positive step in as much as it has lifted the borrowing limit to $20,000 and is in fact talking of lifting it to $30,000, being realistically aware that the cost of housing, luce all other costs in Australia under this Federal Government, is going up and up and up. The Minister's present scheme will not allow people genuinely to own their own homes. They will put themselves on the hook for life and be struggling to make ends meet. I think that is something he should look at if, as the honourable member for Kingston has said, his Party is interested in Australian people owning their own homes- something I doubt very much. 
There is a great need for housing. The Minister stated this himself. He said that there needs to be some injection into the housing industry. There is a need for finance. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is fluttering to the multinationals and other people overseas to get money. I shall give the Minister some statistics from the permanent building societies, which make up the third avenue of providing homes to people. In June 1973 $55,205,000 worth of housing loans were approved. In June 1974 the figure had dropped to $32m. In August last year it was $89m and it is down to $39m in August this year. 
This shows that there is a great drop in the amount of money being put out through the permanent building societies for housing. Again, this perhaps is what the Minister wants in his attempts to bring in total socialism. I do not know, but I hope not. 
I should like to put forward a proposal to him that perhaps the government could advance moneys to the permanent building societies on the security of their insured mortgages. In the year ended June 1974 the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation insured 26,100 mortgages valued at approximately $4 10m. It does not take much reflection to realise that by using these mortgages as securities the Government could provide money to this sector providing housing finance, the permanent building societies, on a secured basis and therefore allow a great flood of money to go into the area where it is desperately needed to bolster the housing industry. I hope the Minister gives this proposition serious consideration. I believe it is an area that has not been looked at and that should be looked at because it could provide the third tier which provides building finance with more capital. 
There are the housing commissions, the cooperatives, which are government based, and then there are the permanent building societies, all trying to provide means whereby the people of Australia can achieve that goal they all want, their own homes. The proposal would provide them with the necessary funds at a reasonable rate of interest. The Government could secure its investment with the permanent building societies by using the mortgages as a straight-out security or alternatively have the interest on assigned mortgages paid directly to them and merely pay a fee to the building societies for the collection of the money and administration costs on the repayment of the existing mortgages. I believe it is a worthwhile thought. It is a way by which many hundreds of millions of dollars could be made available- based on the amount that is already under mortgage to the permanent building societies. It would be a very equitable means of raising money. The money would be protected and guaranteed by the Government's own Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, so I cannot see how it could miss. It would provide a certainty that the people of Australia would have the chance of getting extra housing. The industry would have a chance of getting the shot in the arm it badly needs and in overall effect it would be for the benefit of the Australian people. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to the promises of the Minister for Defence in 1973 that there would not be further retrenchments of employees at the Bendigo Ordnance Factory and that he would also take steps to provide extra contracts from both Government and private sectors in order to maintain production and employment, will these promises be honoured; if so, what action has been taken to promote extra contracts. 
-As the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  clearly pointed out, clause 6 of this Bill is the powerhouse provision of the Bill. It obviously is a direct attack, as is usual by a socialist government, on the private enterprise section of the community. As in every Bill proposed by the socialist elements, this Bill is an attempt to nationalise sections of industry. However, it will flounder for want of support in the other place. This Bill sets out to nationalise, or totally to control, the private enterprise section of the broadcasting industry. It will be noticed that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has been given licence to control its own destiny and to exercise its own powers but, as can be seen from the speech of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  in introducing this Bill, clause 6 provides that the Board shall have power to determine rules and standards to be observed by licencees in relation to commercial broadcasting and television programs. It specifically provides power for the Board to determine, subject to the Minister's approval, requirements with regard to programming. As the honourable member for Moreton mentioned, obviously there must be certain regulations and powers with respect to all organisations in order to protect the public, but the point is that in this Bill there is no way whereby the private enterprise sector can appeal against a decision that is made. 
The point is that under the existing powers of the Board standards have been laid down and have been adhered to. The television industry accepted the points system and the requirements concerning Australian content. It accepted all the other determinations of the Board. But now the Goverenment is trying to provide for a socialist takeover of the whole industry. That is what this boils down to; it is nothing else. It is amazing that every time the socialists introduce a clause of this nature they say: 'We do not intend to use this power. The power is there purely and simply as a means'. A means to what? Of course the power will be used, and used effectively, by the socialist Government at the earliest opportunity. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  in supporting the Bill, talked about standards. He said what a great thing it was that we should have standards. We do not deny that there should be standards. We support such a proposition. However, he went on to say that power is an evil thing. He instanced how power was misused in the United States of America to bring about the downfall of a  President.  Good Lord, that is exactly what will happen here: This socialist government will provide the Authority with the power to bring about the downfall of private enterprise in the television and broadcasting industry. Let there be no doubt about that; that is exactly what this clause is all about. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  that eloquent or - 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  As I mentioned before, clause 6 is the powerhouse provision of this Bill. The powers proposed are unlimited and undefined and will result in total control by the authority without there being conferred on the licencees any right of appeal against decisions of the Authority. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has independence which has been confirmed and guaranteed by the Government, but such independance is to be taken away from the private sector of the industry. Surely this is an imbalance. I only hope that the Minister for Science will take note of the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Moreton. He said he would look at it. I sincerely hope that he removes from the Bill as presently drawn the severe control which the Authority will be able to exercise but which so many socialists say would not be used. Of course the powers will be used. I do not believe that any government, a socialist government or in the near future when there is a change of government that government, should have such power over the private section of the industry. I trust that the Government will give due consideration to the proposal, will delete this clause, and accept the other amendments proposed by the honourable member for Moreton. 
In rising to speak in this grievance debate I must say how much it grieved me on Tuesday night to sit in the House and watch the sad faces of the socialist members opposite as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did a complete somersault and 
Drought  forward the policies he did bring forward. All the proposals that the Prime Minister put forward were really part of the Liberal and Country Party proposals. I say that they were part because he only adopted those policies that affect incomes and not those that affect expenditure. The proposals he introduced were the ones that really griped the poor members of the socialist Party opposite. 
It grieves me also that we should have seen in recent days the spectacle of the Prime Minister of this country going cap in hand to the leader of the trade union organisation, seeking his advice and reporting for further duty. Further, it grieves me that the Prime Minister should take from the Opposition platform policies that were put to the people during the May elections to overcome the increasing unemployment which we could see would occur and which has occurred. The Opposition also presented proposals to stop inflation and to help industry. We put forward proposals not only to cut income tax but also to cut government expenditure. But unfortunately the Prime Minister, in his lack of wisdom, adopted only part of these proposals. He ignored the ones that really matter, the ones that would really take effect against unemployment. 
The textile industry has been very seriously affected by the actions of this Government since it has been in office. Some months ago the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  at a few minutes notice came into the House and quickly and shortly pointed out that tariffs had been cut by 25 per cent. That was the news that was supposed to upset the people or do great things for industry. The part of the statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade that really upset the people and industry in this country was the announcement of the cutting of import quotas. By reducing quotas and allowing a large flow of imports into the country he expected at the time that, because of a state of virtually full employment, those who would be put out of work- he freely admitted that people would be put out of . work- would be able to find other jobs readily. He showed no concern for the people who were running the industries, the people who were providing employment for Australian citizens. We now have a back-flip on that with the Prime Minister sadly admitting that this socialist Government has awakened from the bad dream and realised that private industry and profit making concerns are needed to ensure a viable country. 
The real effect of the decision to cut import quotas was that our textile industries suffered dramatically. Many of them have closed and others are in the process of closing. Unfortunately the  Deputy  Prime Minister and his team overlooked the very important factor that many of the textile industries are located in country areas. When they close down it is not easy for those people retrenched to find alternative employment. Unemployment in country areas is beaming drastic. If there is an uplift in the economy and a downturn in unemployment, in other words if jobs start to become available, those people will be forced to move away from their homes in the country and go to the metropolitan areas to work, because it is very unlikely that the factories that this Government has successfully closed in country areas will ever be able to open again. It is one thing to close a factory down quickly but it is a much different thing to encourage the shareholders of the company running the factory to take the risk under this Government and open up a factory again, because they have suffered so much in the loss of capital, loss of profit and loss of incentive that I doubt very much whether anyone in his right mind would be prepared to take such a risk. This will be one of the big problems. Where will they go from here? What happens to the industry? 
The Government has introduced a Regional Employment Development scheme known as the RED scheme. Of course it was very well titled. One only has to look at the Ministers involved in it. The RED scheme was designed to provide unemployment relief in country areas by assisting local government authorities to undertake works programs with a 60 per cent labour content. Many local government authorities in my area have put in for this so-called assistance through the RED scheme. Like its sister system of grants none of the money has been forthcoming. One council in the Bendigo area has been advised that its projects have been accepted in part. The Eaglehawk area is very much m need of assistance and the Castlemaine area is desperate financially, both in local government and as a city. Those areas have as yet received neither Grants Commission money nor any assistance under the Regional Employment Development scheme. I am hopeful that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Cameron)  in his wisdom will finally get around to doing something for these areas but I am somewhat doubtful. There is also the 6 months payment of unemployment relief to anybody who is retrenched in the textile industry. It is all very nice to put people out of work and say: 'Don't worry, you are going to get 6 months pay at your average weekly wage over the past 6 months and therefore you needn't worry'. That is very good for them and I am pleased for those people only because they have an income for the next 6 months. But then one asks: What happens after 6 months? 
It was said in this House only yesterday and the day before that there is no way the unemployment situation is going to alter except that it is going to get worse in the next 6 months. That indicates to me that there is no hope of these people getting other employment at the end of that 6 months period. As I have already mentioned, the industries in which they worked in the country areas are no longer there. Surely the people involved in those industries- the owners and the shareholders- are not going to sit around and wait for 6 months and then suddenly put their money back in and lose more money in the hope that this Government might keep on a sane and sensible track for a short period of time. 
Then one has to look at the other side. What about the management and expert personnel in these companies? Surely those people are not expected to sit around and twiddle their thumbs without any income? They have gone; they have left. They have gone to where they can get a job because there are no alternative positions in country areas offering for men of this calibre. As I said earlier, there are not even positions offering for the ordinary factory hand who has been stood down. So at the end of six months we are going to be faced with an increase in the number of people in the straight unemployment situation, and there are quite a few thousands of them. I wonder whether in fact they are being counted at the moment as unemployed because, after all, they are being paid a full wage. I daresay that in fact the Minister for Labor and Immigration with his usual cunning has managed to exclude their numbers from the list of actual unemployed. 
As I see it, we are faced with a situation in country areas where, because of the inability to provide work due to the lack of companies or factories operating there, there is going to be an exodus of people from the country areas to Melbourne. In other words, typical of socialist government, there will be a move away from decentralisation in any shape or form. It is time the Government realised that it is just not a matter of supplementing money; it is time for action. When the Prime Minister introduced his extra proposals on Tuesday night he mentioned tariff cuts. Why did he not bring in immediate quota restrictions on imports? Even then, it would be some months before they had a real effect on unemployment. But until this Government reintroduces a quota system on textiles the textile industry in this country is going to suffer continuously and there will be unemployment. 
-I direct the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture to the purchase of wheat from the Australian Wheat Board for the purpose of giving that wheat to needy overseas countries. Can the Minister advise the House whether this wheat is purchased at the world parity price or at the cheaper home consumption rate? If the wheat is purchased at the lower home consumption rate, will the Minister agree that the Government is placing an unfair burden on the wheat grower instead of spreading the cost of the overseas aid throughout the community? 
-I seek leave to make a statement in support of this report. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the abolition of television licences in the 1974-75 Budget, is it a fact that motels paid an individual licence fee for each set that they provide as a service to their customers. 
If so, did many motel proprietors pay their bulk licensing fee, amounting to many hundreds of dollars, just prior to the date set for the abolition of the licence fee. 
If the position is as stated, does the Government agree that these motel operators should be given special consideration and granted a proportionate rebate of their licence fees. 
-I seek leave to have my report in support of the statement made by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  on this very worthwhile report incorporated in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The report read as follows)- 

 Mr Speaker, I would like to take this opportunity to endorse the remarks made by the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and add my thanks to the members of the Committee and to its staff for the work which they put into this report to enable it to be tabled before the House of Representatives rises for the summer recess. I would like to make a few remarks on the report and I would like to point out to honourable members that the purpose of the recommendations is primarily to damp down the rapid growth of demand for non-returnable beverage containers. It is not envisaged that the Committee's recommendations would have the effect of removing throwaway containers from the market. Experience overseas shows that a deposit system on nonreturnable containers, while reducing the rate of demand for them, allows them to remain as a viable market product. 
The 3c tax which the Committee recommends be placed on non-deposit bearing beverage containers would appear to have an inflationary effect in the area of non-deposit bearing returnable re-usable containers such as beer bottles which at the present time do not carry a returnable deposit. However, it should be recognised that the 3c tax which is payable only once at the point of manufacture of the container will have little effect on the price of the beverage. To illustrate this, a beer bottle may be used at least 10 times on an average before it is recycled. The tax being paid only once means a charge to the bottler of 3c only per filling. Of course, if the bottler accepts the option of placing a deposit of at least 5c on his containers, the 3c tax would not be applicable. 
The need for this inquiry came about through increasing public recognition of the litter and disposal problems created by the non-returnable beverage containers. To illustrate this, I mention some facts supplied in evidence to the Committee which will give honourable members some idea of the magnitude of the problem into which the Committee was asked to inquire. It was stated in evidence that an estimated 837 million throw-away containers would be sold in Australia in 1973-74. BHP estimates that 91.1 million bottles and cans were littered in Australia in 1972-73. The Victorian Country Roads Board estimates that it spends $23,000 a year in collecting discarded cans and bottles alone along the highways for which it is responsible. On the Princes Highway between Melbourne and Geelong an average of 300 drink containers are collected each week. The dimensions of the problem are obvious. 
The Committee recognises that if any deposittax system is to operate effectively, it must be adopted in a uniform manner throughout Australia. We hope that the various State Ministers for Environment on the Australian Environment Council will support the recommendations of this Committee which were made in response to a request by them and will urge their adoption by their governments. Experience overseas shows that a piecemeal approach by isolated States creates problems of administration which can severely reduce the effectiveness of the scheme. This is why the Committee has opted for a national scheme administered by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the States. 
This inquiry has revealed to the Committee the need for a comprehensive education program at all age levels to make the public aware of the costs in money terms to the community and the environmental problems associated with waste disposal and particularly with litter. At the same time, government and industry should work together to remove incentives for people to litter. The 'throw-away' psychology is expanding and exacerbates the litter problem and this psychology is typified by the promotion of convenience packaging of which beverage containers form the most obvious component. 
The Committee expects that the funds raised through the taxation system which we recommend will provide funds for anti-litter education programs and will relieve the burden on local government and other authorities responsible for the collection and disposal of litter and solid waste generally. Industry must be prepared to accept its responsibility in this regard and must examine closely the environmental implications of the marketing of new products so that problems of the proportions created by throw-away beverage containers will not occur again. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that former members of the Armed Forces, now on the Retired List, have been included in the Defence Reserve. 
If so, does this mean that persons beyond the age limit for service can and will be called on for service. 
Can he say whether a recent request to a member of the Reserve for duty was directed to a 92 year old veteran of the Retired List. 
What was the numerical strength of the Reserve before and after the inclusion of the Retired List. 
How many persons under 23 years of age were rejected for service on the basis of failing the medical examination during each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the 6 months special unemployment relief payment to textile industry employees made redundant as a result of tariff and import quota action, is it a fact that some manufacturers in the textile industry, whilst generally suffering from the overall effects of the Government's action, have still required the services of employees to mind textile machinery. 
Is it also a fact that these manufacturers have been unable to fill these vacancies even though there are many hundreds of people qualified for this work listed as unemployed and receiving the benefits under this particular scheme. 
If so, does he have any proposal that will ensure that, when these vacancies do occur, persons in that area available and qualified to perform the work and at that time receiving unemployment benefit are instructed to accept these positions. 
If he has a proposal to cover this problem, does it include the cessation of unemployment relief payments in the event of the recipient refusing to accept these positions when they are available. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is  Mr E.  Walsh still employed on his staff as Public Relations Officer. 
If not, can he say if  Mr Walsh  intends servicing the needs of various private firms with respect to their representations to the Australian Government. 
If so, are there any precedents for a situation whereby a person who may have had access to privileged information places himself in a position to take advantage of it. 
Can he list the names of the firms to be serviced by  Mr Walsh  's organisation. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many applications have been (a) received and (b) approved for the Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme to date. 
What will be the cost of the (a) applications approved to date and (b) applications received but not yet approved. 
) What is the anticipated total cost of the scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) By what authority does the Government retain the unused amount of prepaid television and radio licence fees. 
If the Government has this authority, will the Postmaster-General consider permitting the unused amount to be credited against a person's telephone account 
If the Government has not this authority, will the PostmasterGeneral arrange a refund of all unused amounts. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the urgent need for assistance to the beef industry in Australia, will the Minister consider the establishment of a Commission empowered to purchase surplus beef for the purpose of storage until suitable markets are located. 
Can large quantities of beef be kept in cold storage at a cost of less than 5 cents per lb per annum. 
Would this action relieve the pressure on the present beef market and help to stabilise a price that will keep this section of the rural industry viable. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Have imports from the Republic of Korea been restricted to a level equal to the quantity imported over the previous 12 months. 
Will the restraints promised by India and the People's Republic of China also be at the same level. 
If not, will he give an assurance to limit the imports from these countries by the same procedure as used against the Republic of Korea. 
Will he provide details of the (a) quantity and (b) value of imports from (i) the Republic of Korea, (ii) India and (iii) the People's Republic of China during the last 2 years. 
-The Government's display on the pretext of being interested in employment never ceases to amaze honourable members on this side of the House. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has come out with yet another of his great statements to the effect that the Government is going to devote its energies to the unemployment situation by creating employment. What it is doing is bolstering up those who are unemployed and trying to finance them so that they can stay out of work. Unfortunately, the actions of the Government give the lie to any suggestion that it is trying to create employment for Australian men and women. 
Let us look at the situation in the textile industry as a classic example. Following the efforts of the Government, with its tariff cuts and its lifting of quota restrictions, we saw a massive closedown or threatened close-down of many textile industries. We have seen tens of thousands of textile workers retrenched. The best that the Government can do is to introduce the Regional Employment Development scheme, the National Employment and Training scheme and the Special Assistance to Non-Metropolitan Industries scheme. 
The Minister assisted me with the name of the last scheme. The Government has set up these schemes not for the purpose of creating employment but for the purpose of propping up these industries temporarily while it dithers its way out of a mess. A number of textile industries received huge grants of money under the SANMI scheme just prior to Christmas. The purpose of those grants was, of course, to prevent massive retrenchments from taking place on Christmas Eve. It was a very nice political manoeuvre. Certainly it was a good manoeuvre for the men and women concerned. They at least received their holiday pay and knew that after the Christmas break they would have a job for at least three or four weeks. 
I am not decrying that part of the Government's action. But what is happening now? I understand from the Department of Labor and Immigration that no more interim grants are to be made in this area. The Department is endeavouring to send around a team of experts to check up on the various firms which the Government has already propped up in order to ascertain whether or not they are going to be viable. As I understand the situation, it will be some months before this team of experts gets around to half of the firms that have already been propped up. What is going to happen in the meantime? The situation that has been created by those firms receiving financial assistance to enable them to keep their employees over the Christmas break and for three or four weeks after the Christmas break is coming to a head. The employees concerned will have to be retrenched. I suggest that within the next three or four weeks there will be further massive retrenchments in the textile industry. So much for the Government's attempts at assisting employment. 
Let us look at the Government's latest effort. I refer to the handling by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  of the Googong Dam project. In this project tenders have been called for the supply of a quantity of special pumping equipment which can be and has been manufactured in this country. A firm in Castlemaine- Thompsons (Castlemaine) Ltd- is one of the few firms that tendered for this work. That firm specialises in that particular type of work. The tender price is something like $350,000. In the usual manner in which information comes down the grapevine the firm has been advised that its tender was very close to being acceptable. The tender includes materials of Australian content to the value of $220,000, with the balance being made up of pumping material which has to be imported. Irrespective of who does the job, that pumping material will have to be imported. But the most important part of this contract is that it will provide 5 500 man hours of labour. Do you know where this contract is going,  Mr Speaker?  It is going to Russia. 
One wonders why these sorts of things should happen in a country which supposedly is governed by a socialist government which obviously is dictated to by the trade union movement. Yet it does this sort of thing to the men and women who are employed in our various industries. The point will be reached where a large number of men employed in such foundries will have to face possible retrenchment for the simple reason that a Russian firm is going to get this contract- and I wonder how many more contracts. Perhaps the Russian firm's getting this contract is one of the very great successes of the Prime Minister about which we have not heard. Perhaps one of the reasons why he went overseas was so that he could sell away all of our manufacturing industries. Apparently his philosophy is: If you cannot nationalise them, sell them out. 
We are faced with a massive unemployment situation. What a great government we have handling things! Instead of trying to do something to encourage industry, what does it do? It sells us out overseas and then tries to prop up the employees by paying them money when many of them would rather receive an honest wage than dole money. But the Government knows nothing about the proper way to look after the people of this country. It is about time the Government had a good think about that great Australian slogan: Buy Australian made; sell Australian made. 
It is a shame that large manufacturing concerns have to rely on government contracts to keep them going and then find out that overseas organisations are taking away their export trade. Thompsons foundry had a magnificent export trade in pumps aU around the Pacific islands, but that trade has now gone. It lost it when the Government revalued the Australian dollar. Of course, our industries went right out of the market and we cannot get those markets back now. We have lost them. On top of losing our export markets, we are losing our own Australian markets- and to whom? They are not being lost from private industry to private industry; not on your life. Private industry is losing the opportunity to supply our own Australian Government. Is that not really something? The Aus.tralian Government supposedly is standing up for and supporting Australian employees, the working people. That is a lot of hoo-ha. I only hope that the 'Minister for Housing and Construction can come down to earth a little and  reconsiders  the Jetting of the contract to which I have referred He should ensure in this instance that, even if there is a slight difference in price, an Australian firm gets the contract for the supply of those pumps for the Googong Dam project. I conclude with this question: How many more contracts for that project are going to be let to overseas firms? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I do. A few moments ago the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  said that I failed to let him know that I intended to speak last night. I point out to him, through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I was fourth or fifth on the list of speakers last night. It was not until approximately 2 minutes before I spoke that I knew I was to have a guernsey. I sent the Minister a telegram this morning giving him the Hansard page number of the speech I made and asking him to study it so he would be informed. I felt that was the best I could do in the circumstances. I am also pleased that he is at least going to make sure that an Aus.tralian firm gets the contract. I did not say that a particular firm should get the contract; I said that I hoped that the Minister made sure that an Australian firm got the contract from the Australian Government instead of it going to an overseas firm. I only hope the heck he takes notice of what I said. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! If the honourable member for Mackellar wants to get the call and if the honourable member for Balaclava is prepared to concede to him I will give him the call. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In answering a question from the Leader of the Australian Country Party last Thursday, the Prime Minister excluded the Deputy Prime Minister from the list he gave of Ministers whose staff had been given full security clearances. Has he taken any steps since to ascertain the position with respect to the staff of the Deputy Prime Minister? 
-Under the guise of proposing some low rental housing and a system of easy, long term, low interest finance on a second mortgage basis, this Government has introduced a Bill which is a blueprintshould I perhaps say a redprint- for what is the ultimate plan to nationalise the building industry. The honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins)  made a very interesting comment in his speech. He mentioned that there should not be any provision today in the current financial situation to introduce low interest rates on borrowings. Yet in his second reading speech the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  indicated that one of the aims of the Bill is to provide a stop-gap on second mortgages at low interest rates. Perhaps they did not read each other's speech. 
The building industry has always been one of the major pillars of industry in this country. In fact, it is one of the major pillars of industry throughout the world. It is quite obvious to me, after reading through various clauses in this Bill, that it has been designed to effect this basic plan, as I said earlier, of the nationalisation of the building industry. It is a plan to allow the Government to build houses, to purchase land, to buy and sell properties or to lease properties. The whole scheme is designed very nicely on the basis of a soft touch first but the hard crunch to come later on. 
We will hear the protestations from the Minister later saying that this is not true. We will hear honourable members from the socialist side telling us that they do not do these things. We have had the experience during the last 2 years of seeing introduced into this House many Bills that have sugar coated clauses but when we look at them we find that underneath is the hard crunch for the long term socialisation of this country. It behoves this side of the House to take every possible step to stop this happening, and we will certainly try to do that. The Government surely is not going to deny its own philosophy and the basic concept of its platform in saying it is not planning to nationalise industry because its intentions are there for everyone to see. 
The Bill really introduces nothing that cannot already be achieved under the existing statutes or under the existing provisions for building and 1 finance in this country. We have State government housing commissions; we have the private industry section, and we have various means of providing finance should it be necessary. The Bill suggests the provision of long term low interest loans to offset the second mortgage situation. It should not be necessary for a corporation to be formed to create an extra bureaucracy just to achieve this purpose. Surely the machinery is already there. The Government merely has to increase the amount of money to the States and to the various financial institutions and stipulate, as it is so willing to do in other areas, that this money is to be provided for a specific purpose. The machinery is already there. 
The Government has not provided the money so far. I thank the honourable member for his interjection. The Government has not provided the money for second mortgage finance at this stage. I believe that such funding can be achieved by the existing machinery. 
Secondly, it is fundamentally wrong to put this extra noose around the necks of young people who want to buy a home by providing them with a second mortgage. Why not provide them with the facility through co-operative housing societies and permanent building societies and by increasing the amount allocated to State governments. Why does not the Government extend the repayment period to the co-operative housing societies and the housing commissions from 30 years to 40 years? Why does it not increase the amount of the loan? What difference will it make to a person whether he pays his home off over 30 years or 40 years? Home buyers will be advantaged by paying only one amount of money each week instead of worrying about the build-up of the interest rate. It is all right to say that there will be a low interest factor on the second mortgage, but the crunch really comes when one realises that it will be adjusted later and the differential on the low interest rate will no doubt be carried forward so that after about 10 years of solid paying on a home loan a person will find that he has not paid lc off off his second mortgage. In fact he will find that he will eventually have to pay a startling amount and this will be an added noose around his neck. The Government should take a serious look at this matter. Personally I would rather see an extension of the existing loan limits and an extension of the time that people are allowed to repay the loan. 
The legislation provides for a second mortgage of up to $5,000. As I have mentioned, the State housing commissions and the permanent building societies are already in this field. A second mortgage really is of no help to young people. It will only be an added deterrent to their entering into a contract to purchase a home. Bearing in mind the Minister's previous attitude which he disclosed early in his career, this might be exactly what he wants. He does not want home ownership; he wants home leasing. There is no doubt about that. I will clarify shortly what I have just said. The Government is trying to intrude a third body into the building arena. We already have the State government organisations and the private sector. Why is there any need to set up a further bureaucracy which will be an added cost on an already overloaded public service sector? 
To cap it all the Minister and his Department in typical form and despite the fact that there are 300 000 people unemployed in this country, many of whom are highly qualified and looking for work, have advertised, in the United States of America for 2 experts to be employed by the Department of Housing and Construction at $2 1,000 a year. To me this is an utter scandal and a disgrace. It is typical of the actions of this Government. We are to import people to do work which could obviously and quite capably be carried out by people in our own country. It is more particularly a disgrace when we bear in mind our present unemployment level. The people unemployed are not all unqualified. Many are qualified people who have left universities and who cannot get jobs. I am sure that the people with qualifications could adequately measure up to the requirements or, if not, after a short period of training could easily take over the posts that were advertised. But no, we have to advertise overseas. This is the sort of thing that the Minister is capable of doing. 
I repeat to the Minister a statement I made to him when I spoke on the subject of housing last year. On that occasion I said that he and many other people connected with the housing industry appeared to overlook the fact that houses will not be built by money alone. One can pour as much money as one likes into circulation, but one has to provide materials and labour. The labour situation at the moment is desperately in need of a long term plan for the training of apprentices. I know that the Minister will say that the Government has already taken action in this field. I acknowledge that. I believe this is an area in which the Government could expend some of its resources and abilities to generate home building rather than just push money out into the area. Certainly it should not try to start building homes. 
Why does not the Government take action to provide interest at a lower rate? The honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins)  says it is a funny money system to talk about providing low interest rates at the present time. The Minister is prepared to do it on a second mortgage. Why not provide home owners generally with the total amount required on the one loan term and give them the opportunity to really own their own homes? Secondly, why does he not take action to assist in providing building labour in this field? Most importantly, why does he not beseech his trade union backers to stop taking militant action against building contractors and against jobs, and to stop strikes and let people in the industry get on with the job so that houses can be built and the backlog can be reduced. If this were done houses could be built at minimum cost. This is something which is not being experienced at present. There is no doubt that the more strikes we have the higher will be the ultimate cost of houses. 
The Government in clause 8 of the Bill sets out clearly its plans to become a national builder. The Bill states that the Corporation will have the power: 
to purchase or take on hire, and to dispose of, plant, machinery, equipment or other goods; 
to enter into contracts; 
to erect buildings and to demolish buildings; 
It then goes on to paragraph (j ) which states:  to do anything incidental to any of its powers. 
In clause 6 of the Bill the Government reiterates: 
to grant money for the building of dwellings . . . 
to build dwellings or take part in or be associated with: 
So the Minister is definitely inclined to want to start building houses. The actions of this Governmentthis is in conjunction with the Minister's portfolio- are quite despicable in many ways, particularly in view of the hiring of overseas employment when we have plenty here. Further, the Department has produced a brochure entitled 'Housing under Labor'. This brochure is nothing but a blatant use of public funds for promoting the Labor Party and deriding the Opposition. If the brochure had not set out to deride the Opposition it might have been of some benefit. But it does not delude anyone. The Government is using the media today, using so much of the taxpayers money, to publish its various advertisements and to promote its socialist objectives rather than to talk about the various areas in which it is supposed to be operating. I wonder whether there will be an advertisement on how to get rid of a Speaker because that would be one publication that the people would be delighted to see. 
Clause 6 of the Bill which refers to the granting of money states in Sub-clause (2) (d):  to provide, or ensure, the provision of, facilities and services for persons in dwellings with which the Corporation is concerned; and 
Paragraph (e) states:  such functions as are conferred on the Corporation by any Act. 
The Master Builders Federation has had a look at this matter and has stated quite clearly in its report that in the absence of more precise definition the functions are without limit in regard to construction or development activities while there is a dragnet provision for catching any other legislation in operation or to be enacted. In other words, it is a complete set-up to take full advantage of nationalising the industry if and when the Government feels it has control of both Houses. 
I remind the Minister that in 1973 as the new Minister for Housing he introduced 2 measures concerning State housing in which he tried to dictate to the State governments by saying that they would not be allowed to sell any of the new homes that were being built but that they could sell some of their old stock. He also tried to limit the amount that the States would be allowed to spend out of the federal grant to a very restricted amount on homes built for sale. His view was that all the money should have been used to build houses for rent. He came up with the nice argument that there was a big need for rental housing. He was also aware and I hope that he is more aware of the need to construct houses which the people of this country could buy because the people of this country prefer to own houses than to rent them if it is at all possible. The Minister showed his complete lack of knowledge of the building trade, and this was understandable because he was new to the field, when he offered $6m late in 1973 to build 1500 homes, but even in 1973 to suggest that a house could be built for $4,000 was stretching anybody's imagination except perhaps that of the poor Minister for Housing. No doubt he has learned by reading advertisements in the newspapers and probably somebody has told him that in fact houses even at that time cost $10,000, $12,000 and $14,000, without the land. It is hoped that now when he starts talking about the cost of housing he has elevated his sights somewhat. 
The Minister wants the people of Australia not to own their own homes but to lease them. It is all part of his long term plan. He backed off in 1973 under pressure from various State Ministers and from this House. He backed off from trying to set a pattern for total rental housing and he has now introduced this Bill which will set the basis for his long term plan. We on this side of the House will take every possible step to oppose any action by this Government which sets out to nationalise the industries of this country. 
It appears that today is not my day. I was cut out of the grievance debate and it looks as though most of my time has gone again. However, I shall do my best. The matter on which I wish to speak tonight is one of concern to 9 members of the Commonwealth Police in Bendigo and, of course, their families. The concern arises from the apparent bungling of the Government in deciding to reallocate these men by sending them to Melbourne. These members of the Commonwealth Police are situated in Bendigo to look after security at the Bendigo ordnance factory , which these days might not need such high level security, and also at the Longlea magazine in Bendigo, which does need a deal of high security. The Commonwealth Police comes under the Attorney-General's Department. They have been advised by the Department that they should expect to be transferred to Melbourne to work as security guards at the airport and other areas in the western sector of Melbourne. Their positions in Bendigo are to be taken over by civilian gatekeepers. I think that is the correct and official term. 
These men to whom I refer have been employed in the Commonwealth Police service for many years. In fact, most of them joined while living in Bendigo. They have been there most of their lives. These men have raised their families in Bendigo. The roots of their lives are in Bendigo. Most of them have no wish to transfer to Melbourne but they accept that sometimes the demands of government and a prevailing situation may warrant that they should be transferred. The present situation clearly does not warrant such a transfer. 
Three clear-cut alternatives are left to these people. First, they may accept the transfer to the Department in Melbourne. This would enable them to keep their status in the Commonwealth Police. The second is to take a position as a civilian gatekeeper in Bendigo. The third is a simple one: Get out. Let us examine what these alternatives mean. If they travel to Melbourne, the costs involved, I understand, will be subsidised by the Commonwealth Government. Despite that help, nothing would offset the tremendous cost difference between homes in Bendigo and homes in Melbourne and all the other changes resulting from such a movement. I am assured that more than 50 per cent of these people would not be the slightest bit interested in shifting to Melbourne. 
I turn to the second possibility. They can become civilian employees and work at the same job as they were carrying out before as Commonwealth Police officers. Several areas of concern arise in this respect. Not the least is that by reverting from positions as official police officers to civilian personnel doing the same job will mean a sudden loss in respect received formerly from employees at the. factory. The other concern is the fact that they will each drop $1,200 a year in wages. That may not be much to the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby).  He probably could do that without turning a hair, but unfortunately to these people $1,200 out of a salary of $7,000 is a considerable amount of money. It means that they will suffer a great loss in actual return for performing the same work. What will be the situation that they face as civilian gatekeepers with respect to the ordnance factory and the magazine area? The magazine area covers 1400 acres and is surrounded by high metal fences 7 miles long. Some 135 magazines are to be protected by these civilian gatekeepers who would not be allowed to be armed in order to protect themselves. They would not have the official authority to arrest people. They would have no power of arrest. They would just be gatekeepers. These factors alone- no power of arrest and no arms for protectionwould detract from the benefit of having any security service operating at these places. 
Apparently the reason given by the Minister or his Department why the change is required is that the Department cannot recruit the required personnel in Melbourne. It is absolutely unbelievable that the Department cannot recruit people to jobs paying between $6,000 a year and $7,000 a year in a city in which would be fair proportion of the more than 300 000 people unemployed in Australia. 
-It is absolutely true that the Department claims that it cannot get nine or ten people from the great number unemployed in Melbourne. As the honourable member for Boothby indicates, this is absoulute nonsense; it is totally ridiculous. The people concerned in Bendigo are terribly upset that this situation has been thrust upon them with very little choice of making a decision whether to remain or to shift to Melbourne. Perhaps the Minister is hoping to create a saving in Public Service expenditure. After all, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has told his Ministers to cut expenditure. So these fellows are to lose $ 1 ,200 a year which will mean a total annual saving of $10,000, which is a great saving for the national Budget. If such action was proposed by private enterprise, the trade unions involved would retaliate very quickly. The whole matter clearly reflects the pressure of bureaucracy and amounts almost to blackmail tactics to force these people to make a change. We can only hope that the Minister will take urgent steps to protect the 9 families who are concerned in Bendigo and also will take necessary action to ensure proper protection and security for the 2 undertakings concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think every member of this House has accepted this Bill basically as an improvement on the existing laws. In some instances and some areas many marked improvements will be achieved. As members of Parliament we have been subjected to many legal propositions and arguments by experts in the field of law, including the law of divorce. I believe that the experts have been quite successful in confusing members of Parliament and the public generally and have served only to cloud the issue. In their very clever legal manner and ability they have presented arguments for and against this Bill. But this Bill is not just a matter of law. This is an emotional issue. It affects the people of this country to the very core of their being and existence. This Bill could bring about a total change in the whole aspect of marriage. 
The area of divorce, of course, has grown to be a great concern to many people. There are members of Parliament, such as myself, who have met many people suffering under the traumas of long drawn out cases. I cannot quite see, looking at the overall context of the Bill, how it will relieve a great deal of the suffering. Certainly in some parts it does profess to be a quick and easy divorce Bill. To me clauses 43 and 48 appear to be contradictory. Paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause 43 mention the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage and the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family. Clause 48 states quite simply that after 12 months the marriage may be totally broken up. To me that is a contradiction which I cannot see as something about which people should be totally delighted. Clause 48 ( 1 ) states: 
An application under this Act by a party to a marriage for a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be based on the ground that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. 
I accept that, but clause 48 (2) states that the total ground for establishing irretrievable breakdown is 12 months separation. I do not accept that. Because of the tenor of the discussion in this House I believe that generally honourable members do not accept 12 months separation as the sole real proof of irretrievable breakdown. Why 12 months? Why not immediately? The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  who is to speak for the Bill, is to bring forward an amendment so that a marriage may be dissolved after 3 months by mutual consent. Divorce by mutual consent should be speeded up, but I would prefer to see it on a 12 months basis and the period in the no fault clause, as it is called, reduced from 5 years to 2 years. 
The no fault clause has been propounded as the virtue of the Bill and the means of providing a very simple and quick divorce, but it should be considered in conjunction with the other clauses relating to other areas which go to the very heart of the divorce. I am talking about custody, maintenance and property. Most marriages, even after a term of 12 months or so, have some chance of having a maintenance consideration, a property involvement and a custody problem. It is quite obvious that fault will be clearly exhibited in trying to prove a successful claim in either of those 3 areas. This has not been denied by the supporters of the Bill. What it ultimately means is that the claim that the no fault cause will quickly resolve the problem is in fact not true. 
There has been a comment that 95 per cent of divorces are uncontested. I do not know the truth of those figures, but let us assume that they are correct. Surely the decision about divorce is a decision reached after, say, no fault or 5 years in the case of separation, when it must be clear that the marriage is hopeless. In the case of adultery or other causes a divorce may be granted immediately, but again circumstances will prove that the marriage is possibly hopeless. In the case of desertion the waiting period is 2 years. Apart from the just causes section of the current law, the current law provides a minimum of 2 years in the case of desertion and a maximum of 5 years in the case of separation or no fault. In these cases it has really been proved that the marriages cannot work. 
I believe that the 5-year period is far too long. The 2-year term is quite acceptable. People would know after 2 years that there is no hope of reconciliation. The term 'quick, cheap divorce' is an anomaly. Many people have been sold this idea, but it is not really true, even in the case of mutual consent. I again bring forward the point that property, custody and maintenance settlement will make the divorce an expensive and long drawn out affair- possibly more expensive and even more drawn out than under the existing system. 
Under the current law all matters arising from the divorce are generally settled at the one hearing. Under the new Bill a divorce after 12 months may take place in a family court by simply establishing separation. After that the couple involved will have to settle down to the big fight on custody, maintenance or property, or the whole three. This obviously could not and will not be resolved at the one hearing. It may be, but it is unlikely. If it were to be decided at the one hearing there would be a sudden backlag of divorce hearings. A person might have to undergo a separation period of only one year before filing for divorce, but it would take him 5 years to get his case on the list for hearing. What in fact would happen is that there would be 2 court cases to hear this divorce situation. I believe that that will add to the costs of the divorce in the overall context and create many problems. Relating to custody, clause 63 ( 1 ) states: 
A decree nisi of dissolution of marriage does not become absolute unless the court, by order, has declared that it is satisfied- 
that there are no children of the marriage who have not attained the age of 1 8 years; or 
that the only children of the marriage who have not attained the age of 1 8 years are the children specified in the order and that- 
proper arrangements in all the circumstances nave been made for the welfare of those children . . . 
In other words the decree will not become absolute until that custody claim has been settled, so honourable members can see that there would be problems. Where there are no children areas of maintenance and property can be involved and it takes time to resolve those issues also. 
We have heard much in this debate about the vocal minority. We have heard it in the main from those supporting the Bill and from those supporting the amendment. There is a vocal minority on both sides and I would like to say something about these vocal minorities. In my electorate many people are vocally propounding that the Bill should be thrown out, and that I should speak very strongly against it and vote against it. Then I have members of Australian Labor Party branches who have made it known publicly in the newspaper that they are in favour of the Bill and that I should support it. Unfortunately the silent minority has not had the opportunity to express its views and opinions about this matter. I think it would have been proper during the parliamentary recess for the Government to have circulated to every person in Australia, as it did in the case of the recent referendums, a paper setting out the pros and cons of this Bill. Such arguments could readily have been prepared by those who support and those who are against the Bill. However, this was hot done. I had intended, if possible, during the second reading debate to put forward an amendment that the Bill be deferred for a period of 3 months while this action was taken. Unfortunately, by the very rules of Parliament, only one amendment can be dealt with during the second reading debate so I have no opportunity to propose that amendment. Perhaps that was not the answer anyway because basically I am in favour of the Bill. I just want amendments in one or two areas. 
Now that the Bill has reached the House of Representatives the public is becoming more aware of it. It is strange that honourable members speaking for the Bill have said that there has been plenty of time for it to be aired because it has been before the Senate for 2 years. I am not going to comment other than to say that many people in my electorate, and no doubt many people in the electorates of other honourable members have not taken the slightest interest. There was no publicity of any great magnitude given to the Bill while it was in the Senate. Of course, the Bill was changed so many times in the Senate that now it almost looks like 'Blue Poles' and is about as clear. I would have preferred, if it had been possible under the rules of the Parliament, that the Bill be subject to a referendum because then there would have been the opportunity for the silent majority to air its views and to cast a vote. Unfortunately, again, that was not possible so we have to settle with the means available to us for dealing with the Bill. 
On the question of maintenance, I would like to mention that I cannot agree with some of the arguments put forward by honourable members supporting the amendment. It has been said by them that a wife with no children under 18 years will be left to fend for herself. That is not true. If honourable members really study the full text of the series of clauses dealing with maintenanceparticularly clause 75- they will find that adequate provision exists to protect either party in a maintenance case. I refer particularly to clause 75(1)(n) which covers any stray area. However, my total concern about this Bill centres on clause 48 which deals with the simple system of 12 months separation. Some honourable members who support the Bill have commented that entry into a contract of marriage should be made more difficult. They say that the real issue at stake is the need for the Government to try to do something to make marriage more difficult. I find that a most interesting assessment coming from those who, on the other hand, are trying to make marriage a lot easier to quit. That line of reasoning is most difficult to follow. I hope that this Bill will be amended because it is not designed, as it appears to be, to encourage family dissolution. 
In his speech, the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  mentioned that the Church of England in England advocated that the sole basis for divorce should be the irretrievable breakdown of marriage. That is true; it did. The English Divorce Reform Act 1959 provides that 'irretrievable breakdown' shall be the sole ground for divorce. But, very importantly, that Act then proceeds to define what shall be required to prove that irretrievable breakdown. It requires:  . . . proof that 
the respondent has committed adultery; 
the respondent has behaved in such a way that the petitioner cannot reasonably be expected to live with the respondent; 
that the respondent has deserted the petitioner for a continuous period of at least 2 years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition; 
that the parties to the marriage have lived apart for a continuous period of at least 2 years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition and the respondent consents to a decree being granted; and 
that the parties have lived apart for a continuous period of at least S years immediately preceding the date of the petition. ' 
I would not like to see all of those requirements with respect to irretrievable breakdown of marriage introduced in full. I would prefer to support the amendment which quite clearly proposes a period of 2 years on a no-fault basis. I believe that such a period will give every opportunity for a reconciliation to take place, if there is any hope of that being achieved. 
I refer to my earlier comment that 95 per cent of divorce cases are uncontested. I believe that the 2-year term would be an adequate period in which to determine whether a marriage was possible of reconciliation. I accept that just cause provisions should be included. But I point out to the Parliament that paragraph (g), which is the main pan of the amendment, provides: 
that marriage should be dissolved only when a Court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or . . .  and 'or' is the really important word:  . . . that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than 2 years. 
That paragraph does not say that there must be proof. As long as separation for 2 years has occurred, the requirement for divorce is fulfilled. Just cause provisions would provide, as they do now, for cases of severe problems including adultery and the many other aspects which come within this area on which the immediate termination of a marriage may be sought. That, I would hope most people would say, is proper. 
A 2-year requirement of separation would provide a reasonable period, as I said, in which to assess whether the no-fault provision should have effect or whether the parties to the marriage can be reunited and reconciled. But I would like to see a further clause added. Perhaps this could be considered by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  if the amendment is carried and the Bill is redrafted. I propose that a clause be added to provide a one-year term of separation in the case of mutual consent. I know that the Minister has proposed a period of 3 months. Perhaps he was being a bit ambitious in that respect. I believe that 12 months is a reasonable period if there is mutual consent. The way time seems to slip by, 12 months would quickly be over. I prefer that to a period of 3 months as 3 months seems almost like tomorrow. A party could decide that he or she will get a divorce and, by mutual consent, it would be done tomorrow. I think that the provision of a period of 12 months separation would be a far more reasonable approach. I believe that the provision of a period of 2 years for a no fault divorce would be a realistic and proper one. I believe that the provisions relating to just cause should be included in the legislation because there are many instances where they are needed. I know that this provision is not in the amendment, but if possible I believe that a divorce should be granted, with the mutual consent of the parties, after a separation of one year. I support the amendment. 
-In the few moments that are left I must make one comment. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  made reference to the amount of building created under the Labor Government. The situation is that 92 per cent of that building was carried out by the private sector of the building industry, and that is despite the Labor Government. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  made a comment about reading the explanatory memorandum, but what he forgot to do was turn the  page and read the second part, and that is understandable. Page 2 of the explanatory memorandum points out that the Corporation will take over or discharge charges, mortgages or encumbrances. In other words, it is going to take over a mortgage and replace it with a mortgage, and that to me is utterly ridiculous. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the individual statutory authorities, commissions and panels of inquiry appointed by the Present Government since assuming office in December 1972. 
Does he intend to appoint an over-riding authority to ascertain the effectiveness of the numerous panels already established. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
If a pensioner desires to use other than public or general wards in a hospital, is he or she forced to pay the full amount of hospital benefits to cover that intermediate or private section. 
If so, will he consider allowing pensioners who elect to use the intermediate or private section a rebate or refund equivalent to the allowance for the general section. 
Would such an allowance provide pensioners the opportunity to exercise this choice knowing they would only be paying the difference in cost. 
Would the provision of such opportunities to pensioners relieve the demand on general hospital beds and therefore make available beds for the more necessitous. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the statement by a Professor Jones of the United Kingdom that the industrial decline in that country is caused by massive company and direct taxes, which leave too little money for re-investment or expansion. 
Can he say whether company tax in the United Kingdom is 1 9 per cent, in West Germany 27 per cent and in the United States of America 30 per cent. 
Does the Government agree that the Australian tax charge of 45 per cent is too high under the present economic pressures. 
Does the Government also agree that the private enterprise sector must be allowed to make a profit in order to offer continuous employment. 
Do taxes on profits at 45 per cent, in conjunction with high inflation rates, mean that residue profits are inadequate to permit required expansion. 
Will he take urgent steps to reduce this tax rate until such time as inflation is reduced. 

 - Mr Speaker, I second the motion and reserve the right to speak later. 

 -Mr Speaker, in rising to support the motion of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  - 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="094131197504094_38_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="094131197504094_38_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put. 
I want to say only a few words in relation to clause 21, which concerns the identification of a candidate's party affiliations on ballot papers. I take it that the members of the socialist party who sit opposite intend to have put down on the ballot paper just the initials of the party. After all one could imagine what would happen to a ballot paper if there had to be spelt out on it 'The Australian Socialist Party', or something like that, 'The Liberal Party of Australia' and so on. So we will have a situation in which a very cunning and snide group of people led by someone like the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  will be dreaming up all sorts of fantastic ideas for cooking ballots. 
After all, the Leader of the House has claimed that that is his greatest forte. We will see all sorts of parties emerging, such as the Long Party, the Liberation Party, and the Leftist Party whose initials all will be LP. We will see the situation arising in which, after a number of names, there will be the initials LP and then there will be a name that is followed by the initials ASP for the Australian Socialist Party- or should the party of honourable members' opposite be correctly described as the Australian Labor Party? I am not sure. We will find that this is one of the many guises that will be put forward by the cunning bunch of honorable gentlemen who sit opposite- on the Government benches- to cook the ballot again to suit their own ends. If this provision goes through one can back it right in that at the next election there will be a host of parties whose initials are CP and LP but who in fact will be giving their preferences to the Australian Labor Party. I oppose this provision because the real meaning behind it is the Australian Labor Party's designs. It is another way of cooking the books to ensure that the socialists retain control of this country. The Opposition will oppose it vehemently. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the limits of assets and income imposed on pensioners subject to means test for their pensions, is it a fact that with the high rate of inflation the limits at present imposed seriously erode the value of the resultant restricted pension. 
Will he consider taking urgent action to raise the amount of these limits so that pensioners subject to a means test will be enabled to receive a larger pension. 
Will he also consider lifting the limit of income that prevents a pensioner from receiving the extra benefits of travel, telephones and medical allowances. 
Has the Prime Minister ordered inquiries to be made into the activities of 2 senior public servants in Canberra? Can the Prime Minister throw light on published reports that foreign governments have expressed their concern about security in Australia? Has information coming to Australia from British and American or other intelligence sources begun to dry up because of this situation? 

 Mr WHITLAM The answer to all 3 questions is no. 
asked the Minister for Transport upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the decision to reduce TAA fares by 214 per cent, is it a fact that TAA has been running at a loss? 
If so, why did he add to this loss by introducing this reduction in fares? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the 85 000 bird quota supplied to poultry farmers in the A.C.T., is it a fact that this quota has been supplied to farms already enjoying a N.S.W. State quota? 
Is it also a fact that as a result one farm is now selling eggs interstate and consequently disrupting the whole marketing system in Victoria? 
Did one particular producer receive this added quota to compensate for support given to the ALP in the 1972 and 1974 elections? 
Will the Minister ensure that no further quotas are granted to either the Northern Territory or the A.C.T. without complete discussion and co-operation with CEMA? 
5 ) Is there a quota operating in the Northern Territory; if so, has consideration been given to establishing limits of production in the Northern Territory in order to facilitate orderly marketing through Australia? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to his statement on 16 April 1975 that he is awaiting States to provide extra beds for public wards, is it a fact that in his early announcements on Medibank he stated there would be adequate beds in public wards and that he could not see any need to seek extra accommodation. 
Will private hospitals be forced to hand over bed space for public ward use; if so, is this proposal totally opposite to his early assertions. 
What is the bed shortage number for public wards. 
Why is it necessary to obtain extra public ward beds. 
Does he expect a greater demand under Medibank than prior to the scheme. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is a current stockpile of 14,000 tonnes of egg pulp. 
If so, has the Government considered purchasing this egg pulp for distribution to refugees in South Vietnam or other needy countries. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. I refer to a point which I raised during an adjournment debate some time ago about the supply of pumps to the Googong Dam. I mentioned at that stage that it had been suggested that these pumps would be supplied by a Russian firm to the detriment of Australian manufacturers. I ask him now: Will he state quite emphatically that this contract has not been let to a Russian firm, as I have good grounds to believe it has? If it has been let to a Russian firm, does he agree that this is a blatant attack on Australian industry and employment? 
-In the few minutes I have available to speak in this grievance day debate I would first like to draw to the attention of the House the comment of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant that he was very concerned about employment in the Australian Capital Territory which could possibly be affected by some action in relation to Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra)  Ltd. I will put the Minister's mind at rest. I will not talk about the Commonwealth Brickworks. I want to point out that I am very pleased that he is concerned about employment because obviously some of his fellow Ministers are not. I refer to the answer given by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  to a speech I made concerning the supply of pumps for the Googong Dam construction. I raised the matter some months ago when tenders were called for the supply of pumps for this dam. It had come to my notice that there was a chance that the tender would be given to a Russian firm- that is, to an overseas company. At a time of high unemployment levels and with manufacturing industry trying desperately to achieve all the successes it can in obtaining tenders, it somewhat surprised me that this action could even have been considered by a Government. I thought, with due respect to the Minister, that from the replies I received from him to that speech I made in an adjourment debate that he was making some attempt to see that some action would be taken. He was not prepared to admit that outright but I got the impression that he was going to try to achieve something for an Australian firm. I was not, as he claimed, parochial. If he claims that I am parochial and if that means that I am trying to retain business in Australia for Australian manufacturing industries, he can brand me as being parochial. I will be delighted to be called that. 
I have been told that the tender has been let to a firm supplying Russian material and Russian parts. It appears to me that the House is unaware that involved in this contract are 5500 man hours of manufacturing work to produce all these parts. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Housing and Construction has entered the House. He will acknowledge that I did advise him that I would talk on this matter. I repeat that 5500 man hours are involved in this project. It seems to me a dreadful waste to allow that amount of work to go to overseas countries. 
The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has claimed that this Government is the great protector of employees. It is the one that will make sure that there is full employment. I quote from a statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister in March 1973. He made the following promise: 
The first responsibility of this Government is to maintain full employment. 
That is a joke. He continued: 
Nothing will be done that will endanger one job in this country. 
I hope that the Minister for Housing and Construction has read that promise by  Dr Cairns,  who said that not one job in this country would be endangered. The greatest offender in respect of that promise has been  Dr Cairns  himself. Not very long after making that statement he introduced the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut which put thousands, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of men and women in the textile and other industries out of work. 
I turn next to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who perhaps should be called the Minister for unemployment. In January 1972, as spokesman for the Opposition on labour matters, when speaking to about 600 people at an Australian Labor Party meeting he pointed out that thousands of good Australians were unemployed because of deliberate Government policy. At that stage, he was talking about 100 000 persons unemployed. The present Government would think that it had been born again if it could reduce the present level of unemployment to 100 000. I understand that, some time in his rash career, the Minister for Labor and Immigration made the statement that he would resign if unemployment ever exceeded 200 000. Unfortunately for the Government, for Australia and for us, he is still here. 
I mentioned that the Deputy Prime Minister made some statements regarding unemployment. Let us look a little further at what he said. In July 1973 he said: 
Figures indicate that up to 28 June unemployment is insignificant and is carefully under control. 
At that stage unemployment was 180 000 persons. Only some 6 months before that time, he and the shadow Minister for labor, the present Minister for Labor and Immigration, were screaming that any government which faced an unemployment level of 100 000 or 1 10 000 persons should resign as it was not fit to govern a country. The then shadow Minister for labor said: 
If you get children of old Australians unable to find work, seeing migrants getting jobs, there could be sociological problems. 
I wonder what he has to say on that aspect today? 
It appears to me that this socialist Government has not a clue as to what it is supposed to be doing or where it is supposed to be going. On the one hand we have an economic situation in which the level of inflation is absolutely beyond anything the Labor Party ever dreamed it would reach; it has no idea how to control inflation. In 1972, when it tricked the people of this country into putting it into power, the Labor Party made rash statements to the effect that it would reduce the rate of inflation. But inflation has risen four times and the level is going even higher. At that time, the Labor Party also said that 100 000 persons was an unacceptable unemployment level. We had the level of unemployment down to 80 000 persons. The Labor Party said that 100 000 persons would be unacceptable and that unemployment under the former Government would reach 200000 persons. Under Labor's control the level of unemployment is over 300 000 persons. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration is misleading the people also inasmuch as, through the activities of his RED scheme, monetary assistance is being provided to place many people in jobs which have a temporary base. The fact of life is that these people are basically unemployed as they are not in regular employment. If the 30 000 or 40 000 people receiving assistance through that scheme are added to the current unemployment figures, the number of persons unemployed reaches a mammoth level never before equalled in this country. The Minister for Housing and Construction through his activities, to which I have referred, is denying to Australian workers the right to obtain employment. The Deputy Prime Minister is making rash statements - 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I rise to speak to this debate because one cannot let the opportunity pass without drawing to the attention of everybody concerned the actions of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in carefully arranging what will ultimately be a nice little gerrymander for the Austraiian Labor Party. He is not known as a crafty old fox for nothing. He would be one of the most cunning organisers of figures that ever existed. He is now having a good old laugh because he knows that it is true. It is no strange coincidence that he took his annual holidays and visited each State just at the time when the commissioners were working on the redistributions. I understand that he had cups of tea and long talks with them. I am sure he told them what a magnificent job they were doing in making this a fair and proper redistribution. It is fair and proper. It is a fair trick and it is a proper miss. 
Honourable members from Tasmania have been noticeably wan and very quiet for the last few months. They could see the writing on the wall because this Government has done nothing positive, as a government, for their State. When all the problems were arising in Tasmania the honourable members could not even stand up and speak on those issues. They had to sit back and shiver in their boots. But now they are starting to smile. They have a little colour back in their faces. They are starting to show that this is a very fair distribution because they believe that this is the only chance they will have of staying in office. Not only will seats which were marginal at the last election be safe but also safe seats will be gilt edged. Under this redistribution the Opposition will have no hope of winning back any seats. 
The same policy has been applied to other States in such a way that we will be blessed with a socialist government for ever. Do not let us fool ourselves. This is not a redistribution on a fair basis to try to provide this country with some sort of basic political organisation and a means of election which is equitable to all. This is equitable to the Labor Party, to the socialist party. The whole idea of the situation is quite a simple thing and it involves simple mathematics. The Leader of the House will stand up looking his absolute Sunday best when he gets back with an increased majority and will state: 'What a pity it is that we do not have a strong Opposition'. I can see him saying that. He will be able to say: 'What a shame that the people cannot support this Party '. 
The truth of the matter is that he will not be happy until it is a one party Parliament. He will juggle his figures until that situation is finally achieved. We do not want to make an error about this situation. This is really a matter of life and death for democracy in Australia. I joke not about it. We are heading towards a situation where it will be impossible for people who are non-socialist ever to be able to get back into government. It does not matter what some honourable members on the other side might say. I include the 3 honourable members, besides the Minister for Services and Property who is at the table, who are in the House in my assessment of those few honourable members on that side who do not belong to the extreme left wing and who are not so socialist minded that they follow a Marx line or a Peking line. One gets muddled as to which Une honourable members opposite follow. 
I rise to speak in respect of the redistribution of boundaries in Victoria. Firstly, we must assess what the whole program is all about. Under this proposal many seats now held by the Liberal-Country Party Opposition- formerly reasonably safe seats for those parties- will now become marginal seats and winnable by the socialist party. On the other hand, many seats which are now held by the socialist party and which were formerly marginal seats winnable by either side will become blue ribbon, or should I say red ribbon, seats for the socialist party. This is fair enough, according to the Australian Labor Party or socialist party, simply because it ties them up in office for ever. Yesterday during the debate on the Tasmanian redistribution, the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  made the comment that my seat of Bendigo was improved and that I should be pleased. He has the most peculiar mathematical brain I know of because it is the first time I have heard of anybody improving his seat by losing votes. By drawing the boundaries very cleverly he has ensured that my seat, among others, will be much more difficult for my Party to win. It was difficult enough the first time round, but he has made it a dashed sight harder this time. In fact, it makes it very difficult. 
I do not think it is right to speak only of one's own seat or of one particular seat. We should look at the proposal as a whole. Through the redistribution, one country seat in Victoria- one more throughout Australia- is wiped out. It does not matter who holds that seat, though it had to be either the Liberal Party or the National Country Party because the Australian Labor Party could not hold a country seat now or ever. Irrespective of who holds that seat, it is to be wiped out. That means that there is much less representation for rural areas in this House of Parliament and that is one aspect of the redistribution that must be considered. It has created a further imbalance because there are additional seats in metropolitan areas bringing about two differentials between the States of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. We are getting a much greater imbalance between metropolitan representation and rural representation. This in itself is a prejudice against the people who are not living in metropolitan areas. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  in his usual bright style mentioned the word 'gerrymander' and claimed that the definition of 'gerrymander' was the taking into account of sheep, posts, paddocks and so on as voters. For his information- I am sure everybody else is aware of it- a gerrymander is a matter of cooking the boundaries so that one party can stay in office for ever. Let us not be too doubtful about it. 
I was told yesterday that we must hesitate to mention the word 'gerrymander'. It is all right for the Leader of the House to cry out in wrath and indignation about gerrymanders when it applies to some of the States, but it should not be mentioned when it is applied to federal politics. That would be totally wrong because, particularly when there is a socialist government in power, a federal government would not dare do it. And it would not be done under this Leader of the House, the greatest book cooker of all time. The real point is that nobody will blame the Distribution Commissioners. They cannot. But what they can blame is the criteria laid down for the Commissioners to follow, and one of the criteria laid down for this redistribution provided for boundaries that will ensure that the Labor Party or the socialist party has representation here for years to come. The Government is so devoid of ability to govern that it has to resort to any means to stay in power. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  that learned gentleman who failed so miserably under the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  as a youth, stated that there is no gerrymander. He said that this redistribution is fair but that if the Opposition got in at the next election it would be a gerrymander. He said that and I am sure that what he implied was that the Commissioners have cooked the books both ways, firstly to suit the socialists and, secondly, if we get in, to suit us. I disagree. I think that the statement made by the honourable member for La Trobe is a terrible one. What he does not realise is that when the Opposition Parties were in government they followed criteria which resulted in the drawing of fair and equitable boundaries and a fair and equitable distribution of seats. 
It is there. What the honourable member for La Trobe suggests is that a variation of 10 per cent above or below the quota provides a fair electoral distribution. I cannot understand that proposition. The variation of 20 per cent above or below the quota was seldom exceeded in the days prior to the present redistribution. In very few seats was that variation exceeded. If the boundaries had been drawn on that basis, we would have had a far more equitable redistribution before us now. If the redistribution had been left on the basis of the variation of 20 per cent above or below the quota, we would have been able to wait until the 1 977 census. But the Government cannot wait that long. 
As the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  clearly pointed out, if the Government is able to achieve success in respect of these proposed electoral boundaries, we will have in Australia a situation in which the Labor Government, with a 45 per cent share of the total votes as against the 49 per cent share that it achieved at the last election, will remain in power. Unfortunately for the parties on this side of the House, we would need to achieve a mammoth proportion of the votes to maintain the present numbers that we have in the House, let alone to be returned to government. I ask honourable members opposite: Is this a really fair way to approach this matter? Is it proper to set up the redistribution in such a way that the Opposition Parties cannot ever be re-elected to government? I do not really believe that Government members mean anything that they say about fairness. They know that these proposals are not fair. The proposals certainly are fair to them. They are delightful to them. 
The situation that faces us is a continuation of socialism. If these proposals are carried, they will result in Australia, not only Victoria, becoming socialist forever. Once the Government achieves a total stranglehold on the country, there is no way in the world that we will ever get back to sane and democratic government in Australia. That is what these propositions are all about. Objections by honourable members on the Government side to what I am saying serve no purpose. They know that this is what they are planning to do. Like some of the other measures that the Government is introducng these proposals are designed - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)That is not a point of order. 
-I appreciate your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  You have shown much more sense than did the honourable member who just took that point of order. Finally, I question again the sense in adopting a variation of 10 per cent above or below the quota for redistribution purposes. Surely the Minister for Services and Property is aware, as many of us are aware- I suggest that in particular the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Burke are aware of this- that on a 10 per cent quota variation even now, on the figures in these proposals, the seats of those 2 honourable members are very close to exceeding the maximum number of electors that would be permitted in terms of that variation. They know that what is before us is a singular plan to keep the Government in office forever. It is not fair; it does not recognise reality. 
I rise to support the Victorian Grant (Seymour Flood Mitigation) Bill and in doing so to present the attitude of the Opposition towards it. I personally have some disappointment about the action of the Prime Minster  (Mr Whitlam)  when he visited Seymour to look at the flood area, and I will raise that point later. The Bill provides $200,000 of Australian Government funds to assist in meeting a total expenditure of $500,000 to make Seymour virtually or hopefully safe from future flood problems associated with Whitehead's Creek. When Whitehead's Creek flooded it caused a tremendous amount of damage in the Seymour area. The floodwaters came out of the hills late at night and were quite unexpected. They came from a little creek that most people thought they would never see flooded to that extent. The flood hit the town very early in the morning and it was very fortunate that there was not a great loss of life. Unfortunately, there was a small loss of life. Any loss of life in a flood is tragic loss of life in any national disaster is tragic. 
I must congratulate the Victorian State Government and the Federal Government on their prompt action at the time in providing the ready assistance so badly needed at a time of extreme disaster. Units of the Australian Army situated at Puckapunyal rushed in and provided tremendous assistance at the time of that flood and also at the time of a later flood from the Goulburn River. Getting back to the provisions of the Bill, let me say that when the Prime Minister visited Seymour at the time of the flood he told the people that they would not lose; that the Federal Government would step in and assist the State Government on a dollar for dollar basis. I mention this because the people at Seymour are faced now with the enormous problem of finding $50,000. If the honourable members stop and think of the population of the town of Seymour, which is in the vicinity of 4,000, they will realise that it is an enormous task for the local shire council to raise anything like $5,000, let alone $50,000, to cover the difference between the amount provided and the amount required to carry out this all-important work. 
The total cost of the job is $500,000, as explained in the second reading speech. The Australian Government is to provide 40 per cent of that cost-that is, $200,000-and the State Government is providing $250,000. Unfortunately the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is at the table always seems to lack the ability to add up. He says that what I say is utter nonsense. I ask him: From where does he think the extra $50,000 will come? Perhaps it will come out of funds provided for the Regional Employment Development scheme or from the Grants Commission. I suggest that these are 2 areas in which the Government might act to make up the difference. 
However, let us get back to the facts of the situation. The Prime Minister is quoted in a Press statement dated 16 May 1974 as follows: 

 Mr Whitlam went on to say that in a letter to all Premiers dated February 27th he had outlined the arrangements for financial assistance from the Australian Government to the States in the event of natural disasters.  Mr Whitiam  said that the offer which he made in that letter applied in the case of the current Victorian floods. The offer to Victoria includes financial assistance on a dollar for dollar basis. 
The Prime Minister made the statement. I did not make that statement. The Opposition did not make it. The Australian Government, through the Prime Minister, made an offer of dollar for dollar assistance with the State governments. In my book this means that the Australian Government has to provide $250,000 for the Seymour area instead of expecting the poor unfortunate people of Seymour who have suffered 2 floods in something like 2 years to make up the difference. They have suffered tremendous loss of property and there has been loss of life. As most people are aware, it does not matter how well they are covered by those very able insurance companies which provide the background of replacement. The people do not always receive the total amount of reimbursement to cover the losses they suffer. Yet, whilst this Government proposes to enter the field of insurance to assist, it cannot adequately provide and keep its promise of dollar for dollar assistance in this area. The Minister at the table said before that what I said was nonsense. Perhaps he will explain afterwards where the people will obtain this extra $50,000. 
I am hopeful that the people of Seymour will receive word from the Prime Minister that his promise of dollar for dollar assistance with the State Government will be honoured. I am hopeful that if the Australian Government cannot see its way clear under this Bill or an amended Bill to provide the extra $50,000- in other words, the 50 per cent of the total amount required- it will provide a special grant through perhaps the Grants Commission or will provide assistance through the RED scheme. It could quite easily use the money allocated for this scheme because much labour will be involved at the headworks of Whitehead's Creek. I hope that the Australian Government will provide that extra $50,000. I ask the Prime Minister, through the Minister for Housing and Construction, to honour his promise. I ask the Australian Government to make sure that it provides 50 per cent- not 40 per cent -of the amount required. I ask this on behalf of the people of Seymour. I have expressed the gratitude of the people of Seymour for the ready assistance in ail the areas necessary at the time of this disaster. No doubt they were entitled to expect that assistance. Nevertheless, they were very gratified to receive it, not only from this Government but also from every other source. 
The important thing is that we are now looking at the prevention of a similar disaster happening again. It is no good saying that it is simply a matter of rectifying the position by the people of Seymour paying for it because, unless something is done, that is ultimately what will happen. What good is it if the people of Seymour are expected to provide the $50,000? If that is the case, the money they receive from the Grants Commission virtually goes out the window. Possibly, they will have to use their rate money to provide the difference in the funds. There is just no way that the Seymour Shire Council will find this money. It is obvious that the State Government will have to carry the debt. If it does that, it means that the State Government will carry 60 per cent of the deal because the Australian Government will be providing only 40 per cent. I do not believe that this was in the Prime Minister's mind when he made the statement as reported in the Melbourne 'Sun' of Sunday, 18 May 1974. According to the report the Prime Minister said: 
. immediate steps would have to be taken to stop further floods hitting the town. 
He said the reshaping of the Federal Government's procedures on floods and compensation would speed up the process. 
He said that back in May 1974. The process has not been speeded up. I only hope that this relief will be speeded up, that the Government looks at its promise made through the Prime Minister and makes available 50 per cent- $250,000- of the money required. In speaking to this Bill, I point out in fairness that a Liberal-National Country Party Government intends to take proper steps to see that there is adequate protection in the case of flooding when it is returned to office in the very near future. The water and soil conservation section of the Opposition's policy, released some time ago, states: 
The liberal-Country Parties- 
It is now the Liberal-National Country Parties-  advocate establishment of a National Water and Soil Conservation Fund from which allocations will be made to the States annually for the following purposes. 
Among those purposes is flood mitigation and flood prevention. Under this scheme, of course, money will be provided to try to stop flooding in those areas that are subject to such disasters. Furthermore the Liberal-National Country Parties when in Government, which will be very soon, will look at disasters on a proper basis. I believe that funds should be made available on a dollar-for-dollar basis so that the people who suffer hardships will not be subjected to added pressures of trying to find funds. I repeat that the 
Australian Government must make sure that the promise given by the Prime Minister is carried out. It must provide support to the Victorian State Govemment on a dollar-for-dollar basis in respect of the $500,000 which is required for work to be carried out on the headworks at Whitehead's Creek. The people of Seymour will be much happier in their minds when the Australian Government's promise is fulfilled. They will be happy to know that their town and shire will not be bankrupt. I hope that somewhere along the track someone on the Government side will take the necessary steps to provide adequate cover and to carry out the real promises that were made by the Prime Minister in relation to this Bill. I repeat that the Opposition must, of course, support the Bill because it is important that the State Government should receive even the $200,000 to be made available under this legislation so that work can proceed, even if the State Government has to be tagged with the responsibility of providing the balance, which unfortunately Seymour has no hope of paying. 
Has the Prime Minister yet given an assurance that the Government will not break pair agreements unilaterally and without notice? 
-In rising to second the nomination of the honourable member for Lyne for the position of  Chairman  of Committees I can only endorse the remarks that have been made by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England).  I and other members of the Opposition have seen  Mr Phil  Lucock in operation during the last  2lA  years and we know how very effective he has been both as a  Deputy Speaker  and as a  Deputy Chairman.  When he has been in charge of proceedings the House has always run very smoothly. He has a very sound knowledge of the operations that are required of the House and he carries them out to the very best of his ability. I feel somewhat like the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  felt when he was in a similar position last year, because I realise that the honourable member for Lyne and  Dr Jenkins  are people who are both very capable and very able to carry out the duties of the position. If Phil Lucock is unfortunate enough not be be elected, then I am sure that  Dr Jenkins  will be a good second string. I heartily endorse and recommend Phil Lucock for the position. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
With reference to the 85 000 bird quota supplied to poultry farmers in the Australian Capital Territory, is there a quota operating in the Northern Territory. 
If so, has consideration been given to establishing limits of production in the Northern Territory in order to facilitate orderly marketing throughout Australia. 
-I address a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that tax reductions suggested to be up to $5 per person on average weekly earnings as from 1 January will only offset the increases incurred by the Treasurer as from 1 July? Is it also a fact that other costs to come in almost immediately from the Budget, such as petrol, beer, cigarettes, postage and telephone charges, will in fact disadvantage the average family man that he keeps talking about? Finally, by the time the new tax scheme comes in as from 1 January, will not the average weekly earnings be close to $180 thereby lifting most people he claims as being free of tax into a tax bracket? 
-I join inthe debate on the National Health Bill (No. 3) because on reading the Bill and listening to the various speakers from the Government side I feel that one or two areas are being glossed over. In my opinion the Bill refers mainly to the monetary side of the drug industry. When one looks at that one hardly ever notices that the highest profit making and highest dividend issuing companies in Australia are the drug houses. I wonder what is the purpose behind this Bill. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  quite adequately explained on the technical side how one of the most comforting things we have in this country is the fact that the drugs which are manufactured here are of a particularly high quality. This quality is brought about by the amount of money the companies concerned are able to put into their research and into the development of their products. 
High standards result because some capital is put back into the business. We are all well aware that at the present time it is very difficult for any business to find capital to put back into the business. It is difficult to understand just exactly what this is all about. The honourable member for Petrie mentioned the point of profit. Of course we accept- I am surprised that he did not mention this-that the socialists favour profits in companies. It is a rather staggering thing that they have acknowledged, but they have not worked out exactly what they mean. I do not think they really understand. It really means that if a company can make profits it can keep on going; it can actually keep operating and by doing so it can keep up its employment. I think the socialists ought to be looking at all of these things instead of trying to bring in rules and regulations which will bog down industry. I refer now to clause 3 of the Bill which states: 
After section 102 of the Principal Act, the following section is inserted . . . 
I shall not read the whole clause. The relevant part states that the Director-General may call for such information as specified in the notice being information that is information with respect to financial matters in relation to the manufacture or distribution of the drug or medicinal preparation including information with respect to prices and costs. I believe that this is starting to eat at the very existence of the free enterprise system in this country. 
One wonders exactly what is behind the socialists ' emotional attitude that everyone in business is making millions of dollars at the cost of the rest of the community. As I said before, one does not see these people listed as providing the biggest dividends. Why are they not if they are making such huge profits? Surely the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and his socialist government should take a reasonable attitude and try to promote the free enterprise system which has been the most successful way of producing goods in this country. The industries that are controlled by the Government cannot make profits. This has been proved. This leads me to the next interesting point. I believe this is the real crunch behind this Bill. I draw the attention of honourable members to section 11 of the platform of the Labor Party or the socialist party whichever way its members prefer to be called. Under the section dealing with health sub-section 1 7 reads: 
The promotion of the manufacture, bulk purchase and wholesale distribution of pharmaceutical products through the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
I believe that members of the Labor Party have found some hitch in doing that and so they have purchased the Fawnmac company to overcome that problem. But really this is the real thrust of the Bill. It is the start of the whole scheme. The people of this country have to be alerted that any Bill that is put forward by this Government to start to get its meddling fingers into industry is the first step to nationalise that industry. There is no way in the world that this Government is not planning to take on the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical goods. On that basis, the Opposition will oppose this Bill. I wanted to bring only that point forward. I felt it was a very relevant point. Sub-section 22 of the same Party platform reads: 
The dispensing of prescriptions without direct charge to the patient . . . 
Again we have the same system. Everything is being built up for a total socialist system and we will oppose it. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to the 85 000 bird quota supplied to poultry farmers in the A.C.T., is it a fact that this quota has been supplied to farms already enjoying a N.S.W. State quota. 
Is it also a fact that as a result one farm is now selling eggs interstate and consequently disrupting the whole marketing system in Victoria. 
Did one particular producer receive this added quota to compensate for support given to the ALP in the 1972 and 1974 elections. 
Will he ensure that no further quotas are granted to the A.C.T. without complete discussion and co-operation with CEMA 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Medibank cards for families are being delivered in separate envelopes, e.g. a family of 7 receives 7 different envelopes. 
If so, does the Government agree that this is a tremendous waste of public funds. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many applications have been received for assistance under the NEAT System since its inception. 
How many of the applications (a) have been approved, (b) have been refused and (c) are awaiting determination. 
-In this adjournment debate there are one or two areas that I want to cover. The first concerns comments on the National Employment and Training scheme by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  in this House. Recently from this side of the House the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  commented on the lack of replies from Ministers in respect of various matters. In response the Minister for Housing and Construction took it upon himself to say something because apparently he interpreted it as a criticism of the NEAT scheme. I have a little criticism of the NEAT scheme that I would like to draw to his attention. I can assure him that it is not criticism of the scheme itself because I think the scheme has lots of possibilities and certainly could do a lot of extremely good work in the field of unemployment and in placing people in new positions. 
The scheme has had a lot of teething troubles. I am sure that the Minister will agree with me on that One of the problems that is facing the people who are trying to organise those who are learning something under the NEAT scheme is that after they have gone to all the trouble of paying an enormous amount of money to have somebody trained they find that in many cases the trade union movement will not accept these people on the job. I refer specifically to those people who are classed as adult apprentices. I understand that quite a number of trade union sections- not all of them- will not accept, or have refused to accept, these people as apprentices under the terms of the legislation and will not allow them to start their job. To me there seems to be a cross-fire between the Government and its ally the trade union movement. After all, the Government has set up this scheme and I would have thought that one of the areas from which it would get co-operation would be the trade union movement. 
The Minister mentions something about 'specific'. There are quite a few problems in being specific on this but I will talk to him later about the matter. There is no doubt that quite a few people have been refused work by sections of the trade union movement. I think the electrical trades industry was one, the bricklaying industry was another and the plumbing trade was another. Perhaps the Minister can check that out. I want to bring home to him the fact that there is a shortage of tradesmen. One of the purposes of the scheme was not only to create employment for those who otherwise were not qualified tradesmen- to give them the opportunity to learn a trade and to fit into industrybut also to offset the shortage of tradesmen. I felt that this was a very worthwhile section of the NEAT scheme. I am delighted that the Minister for Housing and Construction took the trouble to come into the House after I advised him that I would mention this matter. It is not a great issue. I feel that there is a stumbling block which the Government, with co-operation from the trade union movement could overcome. I am not raising a great issue. I think this is something which the Minister should know about. Perhaps he is not already aware of it. I am sure that he can do something about it because this is an area in which the staff of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  have been doing their utmost to create positions. They find out that they are being stymied. This is a fact. 
The next matter on to which I move is the statement made by the former Minister for Housing and Construction,  Mr Les  Johnson, concerning the Returned Services League of Australia and the board of the Australian Housing Corporation. I refer to page 997 of  Hansard  of 4 March. The Minister stated: 
It might be appropriate for me to tell the Committee, as a consolidation of that enthusiastic attitude that I have indicated, that it is my intention to provide on the board of the Corporation a representative of the Returned Services League so that the interests of ex-servicemen can be effectively safeguarded. 
I always understood that when a Minister of the Crown made a promise that promise was really given on behalf of his Government and that the Government would support him. We find that later there was a change of ministerial positions. Also, I understand that the Australian Housing Corporation has come under the control of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I mentioned to him that I would be speaking on this matter tonight. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the reputation which this Government has earned of saying anything at any time which suits its purpose and then going back on its word is quite justified. Apparently this is another promise which was given and which was easily broken. Not only was it broken; it was denied, because the Minister for Urban and Regional Development stated: 
The Government has no commitment in this respect. The nomination of the Returned Services League of Australia was considered by Cabinet. It made its decision. At no time was there any commitment by the Government to the RSL. That is a falsity. 
Somebody was telling a falsity. It is probably a little difficult to realise which Minister was; perhaps we should give the benefit of the doubt to both of them. It is a shame that this Government can so easily just by transferring an area of responsibility from one Minister to another or by changing a Minister from one position to another, get out of the commitment which a Minister makes. In this situation, either the former Minister for Housing and Construction or the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has no recollection or has not bothered to do his homework because the first Minister did not take the matter up with the Cabinet and the second Minister did not read up on what the first one said. 
In the few minutes I have left I shall turn to the statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  the other day. He mentioned that the defence program was being designed to spend a lot of money on equipment. He also suggested that the personnel level was very high and that morale in the Army was very good. Let us look at the situation. I refer to the part about personnel. I am led to believe on very good information that in the defence forces the number of officer resignations in the month of July was thirty-one. That is slightly more than the number of resignations in the months of June and May combined. In June 16 officers resigned and in May 14 officers resigned. That is one of the tendencies that has been evident for some time. I had occasion to draw this to the attention of the previous Minister for Defence, but of course it washed off his back at that time. In 1975 some 30 lieutenantcolonels and above resigned whereas in 1974 there were 13 resignations. Surely this proves that there is an acceleration in resignations of top class members of the defence forces. That is a tragedy in itself because those people cannot be replaced. They are not all resigning because of age. Many of them are resigning because they are sick of the lack of incentive coming from this Government, the lack of initiative and the lack of a decent attitude towards defence. They want to get out because they are just not happy with the whole situation. 
I turn now to the question of Public Service interference in promotions. Since we have had this division in the Services where there is a parallel control of the defence Services by the Public Service as well as by the Army, the situation has arisen where a number of the defence forces cannot be posted to Defence Central unless the appointment is approved by the Public Service. The Public Service has to approve all promotions over the rank of lieutenant-colonel. What is happening is that the Public Service is building up a nice little lot of yes men in the high echelons who will do all the things that the Public Service calls upon them to do. That will be the reason behind approving promotion. The dedicated Army men are sick of it and they are resigning. Unfortunately, what is going to happen is that the standard of training and the standard of leadership in the Army and in the other armed forces will drop. 
The other reason for the resignation problem relates to the defence forces retirement benefits plan. A lot of unfortunate stories have been going around the various Army camps. I have been told in my electorate that the men are being told that the total commutation of defence forces retirement benefits is going to be refused. I have asked the Minister to give me a statement on that but he has not done so. I wrote to him in May and I still have not received a reply. I refer briefly to General Slim's book  Defeat into Victory.  Talking about the Singapore battle, he said that the defeat was caused simply because he had to refer to Whitehall in London to get the OK to use men to go out and dig trenches while the Japanese coming down from Singapore were 20 miles away. That is the sort of problem we are going to have if we have a Public Service hierarchy dictating what the Army is to do. It is not good enough. I think it is time there was a reshuffle and a reconsideration, and the system put back where it was before, when at least it was effective. 
It is rather amazing listening to the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  elucidating all the wonderful goodies that the Labor Party- the socialist party- has given Tasmania over the past  2lh  years. One wonders at the enormous shock he must have received when he heard the results of the Bass by-election. How could anybody possibly vote against such a wonderful government if it performed so well? Of course the real truth was that the socialist Government introduced another couple of measures that did not please the people in Tasmania nor did it please the people in the rest of Australia. I refer to the great achievements that have been mentioned so often in this debate, that is inflation and unemployment 
Let us look at a little of the background of inflation and unemployment before we get on to the Budget. Unlike the previous  speaker  I intend to talk about the Budget in terms of the future and not the past. With respect to inflation, the cost of living has gone up in  2i  years by 41 per cent. That is not a bad sort of rise. I am sure the people of Tasmania remembered that when they voted in the Bass by-election. The official rate of unemployment has trebled from 1.5 per cent of the work force to 4.5 per cent of the work force, or approximately 270 000 people officially unemployed. We underline the words 'officially unemployed' because we think that something Uke another 40 000 unemployed are hidden in various schemes that the Government has dreamed up. Of course, one such scheme was the Regional Employment Development Scheme mentioned by the honourable member for Braddon. Whilst he lauded the former Minister who got the sack because of his efforts in bringing in the RED scheme, he must be very sorry about his Party chopping out the scheme that was supposedly doing so much good for his territory. In fact, it is quite possible that the honourable member for Braddon might even contemplate stepping down and letting us try another by-election and see how we go in Braddon. We would welcome the opportunity. 

 Mr Bourchier Yes. We shall certainly try there in the near future. When introducing the Budget the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  mentioned that the business sector was recovering. I think he mentioned that there were early signs of a recovery, that business inventories were falling, that the home building industry was strengthening and that retail sales were improving. What he forgot to mention was that one needed a microscope with rose coloured glasses to ascertain any sign of improvement at all. The number of firms in Australia, both large and small, which closed down during 1975 reached 3000. I refer to an article which appeared in the  Australian  recently headed 'Slump puts shutters on 3000 firms'. The article states: 
In Victoria 1 179 companies have been removed from the State Corporate Affairs Commission Register this year compared with 1 1 56 for the whole of last year. 

 Mr Bourchier It is true. Unfortunately honourable members opposite just do not want to believe it. That is exactly the problem. They have not yet learned to understand what economics is all about. But never mind, they will find out at the next election. Let us consider the situation. The reason that these industries closed down was the impact of across the board tariff cuts on manufacturing, especially in the textile industry. That was a great achievement. The Government wiped out half of those companies. This occurred because of the inability of these companies to pass on the cost rises they had to take up with wages and other rising costs, industrial disputes and the high cost of trying to raise finance which was all brought about by this socialist Government. 
Let us consider a few of the facts of the Budget. It outlays an amount of $22,000m, which is approximately equal to $1,398 for each man, woman and child in Australia. Pay-as-you-earn taxation has increased from $450 to $637 per head which is equal to a 41.6 per cent rise over the last year. Public Service salaries and other services will cost $502 per head. 
Probably a fair share of that $502 per head. That figure of $502 per head may be compared with $350 per head for the previous year and represents the biggest single cost of running Australia- an even greater amount of money than that provided to the State governments by this Federal Government. Yet honourable members opposite still want to increase the Public Service and they complain because we talk about zero growth. Indirect taxation has increased by 31 per cent from $214 to $280 per head following the price increases for cigarettes and beer. These facts are contained in Budget Paper No. 4. Honourable members have all read that paper although most honourable members opposite wish to ignore it. All these facts underline the deception of this Government when it talks of advantages to the taxpayer. In real terms the advantages are disadvantages. 
The taxation proposed by the Treasurer is a complete duplicity. He mentioned proudly in his Budget Speech that he has increased the allowance for education expenses from $150 to $250. Let us analyse that figure. He brings in a rebate system which does away with that type of expense as a tax deduction. In other words, unless education expenses exceed approximately $1,350 people can claim a rebate of $540, which eliminates the right to claim as tax deductions such things as education expenses. So it is only duplicity to say that the Government is putting this up or that up. If one bothers to analyse the situation even further one finds that the amount one is allowed to claim under the rebate system for expenditure of more than $1,350 is 40 per cent of the amount of such expenditure. If one calculates 40 per cent of $250 one finds oneself claiming $ 100 for education expenses. That is the fact of the matter. The Government is allowing the people $ 100 and not $250. 
Taxation increased on 1 July. One of the things the Treasurer did not mention and which apparently many people have overlooked, although I am sure when they look at their pay packets at the end of the year they will realise, is the fact that taxation was increased from 1 July this year. It was increased by an amount that will be even greater in the long term by January next year than the amount of reduction that is proposed. Honourable members opposite can say that that is a lot of rot because the reduction on 1 January is going up by 5 per cent, or something to that effect. But let us look at the real facts of the case. If wages increase- and they will surely increase from 1 July to 1 January- even at the rate of 30 per cent at which they increased over the last 9 months, then we are going to find that average weekly earnings will be around $180 a week, despite the contradiction by the Treasurer. We are going to find that the 500 000 people that he talks about as being free from taxation are in fact going to move up the wages scale so that they will be in a tax fork. This will happen before the new taxation scheme even comes in. 
Apart from that, by moving up in the wages scale they will draw to themselves a higher rate of taxation. In doing so the increase they suffered on 1 July will not be compensated for by any reduction in taxation. It is a complete duplicity. The Government is merely giving back on 1 January what it has already imposed on 1 July. It has increased its income on pay as your earn taxation by many thousands of millions of dollars in the meantime. There is some vague hope among the business sector that the increased after tax pay- the take home pay, if you like to call it that -for the work force will find some of its way to the retail industries which badly need it. Let us face it, I am not talking about making great profits. The retail industries are the ones that are closing. They are the ones which keep peoplethe shop workers- employed, which keep the small factories open and so on. They are hoping that some of this take home pay increase will find its way into the tills of those retail firms. But that will happen only- and I stress the word only- if the increased prices for beer, cigarettes, petrol, postage and telegraph services do not absorb far more than the small increases that the work force is likely to get in its take home pay. Let us have a look at page 26 of the Budget Speech. The Treasurer stated: 
The combined effect of the taxation measures I have outlined and of the more accurate PA YE deductions which they make possible will be a substantial reduction in PA YE tax instalments for most taxpayers from the beginning of 1976. 
As I pointed out to honourable members, logically that is untrue and the people will find this out. One of the points that the Treasurer did not mention- I want to mention it here; it is only a small point but it is relevant- is that the socialist party forgets the fact that the average working person it keeps talking about usually has many commitments that use up most of his pay. So in order to have his holiday at the end of the year or in order to purchase another car, change his old one over or buy something that he wants for his house, he makes sure there is always a nice little surplus in his taxation deductions. He likes his tax refund cheque. This is a fact of life. Anybody who has had anything to do with employees is aware that many employees like to pay that little extra tax, by not claiming for one dependant so that they have some refund coming to them. 
The Treasurer intends by adjusting the new tax scheme to provide that there will be hardly any taxation refunds. This has not quite sunk in to the working people of this country but it will sink in some time after June next year when they do not get any refund cheques, when in fact some of them will probably have to pay some money. But be that as it may. I am not trying to instil that sort of thought. What I am saying- I honestly believe this- is that many working people dwell on receiving a taxation refund cheque to take the family away on their annual holidays, which are 4 weeks now. Now under the Budget, as the Treasurer proudly said, the new tax scales will do away with that. I think he is doing a harm. It is not a good thing. I know that one can logically and economically say that really these people are lending the Government money without interest. So what? The point is that if the people have the extra money in their pay packets most of them will not save it. They will not save the money that they hope to get through their refund cheques. The Government will find this out to its sorrow. 
I turn now to housing. This is an area that concerns many people in Australia. In fact, I believe it is one of the most important items because it controls one of the largest work forces in the country, apart from the Public Service. The State housing grants are down $20m in the Budget this year. In 1974-75 the Budget allocated $345m to the States for housing. In the 1975-76 Budget this allocation dropped to $365m. But let us look at the realistic figures. First of all we must allow for 20 per cent inflation over the 12 months. This would require a further $73m on last year's expenditure to provide exactly the same amount of housing, providing there are no further increases in prices. That means that there will be in total a $93m drop in the funds going into housing. The actual increase in home construction costs over the 12 months has been averaged out at about 30 per cent. So in fact my figure of 20 percent is quite moderate. The price increases make the gap even larger. 
The situation is that the State housing which is basically designed to provide for low income earners, whether they purchase the homes or rent them, is the area that will suffer. The people who want to get into those homes, already many months behind, will find it even more difficult to get a home. In other words the builders will not be able to erect the homes. There will be a further cut back in employment. But of course the Treasurer is quite prepared to accept that. The larger building companies that build ordinary villa homes have for the last couple of years been forced to change their policy of 60/40 erection, meaning 60 per cent for private sale and 40 per cent for government contracts to a system of 40 per cent private and 60 per cent government. This has been forced on them by the Government's high interest rates over the last 2 years which have made the building companies accept government contracts for 60 per cent of their work to keep their men employed. The result of the Government's moves now means that that 60 per cent will not be available and the Government will find increased numbers of builders on the unemployment lists. 
I now refer to the promises of the present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  given on 20 July, that advances to the States will not be less than in the previous financial year. It did not take him long to be told that he was totally out of order. On 9 July whilst addressing the Real Estate Institute of New South Wales the Minister said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had also indicated to the States that the Government would maintain at least the same level of expenditure in 1975-76 as in 1974-75. This is just another one of the Government's back pedals on a promise, another let down. Commencements in the housing industry average 10 000 a month. This is 4000 a month below the figure for the previous 2 years and with the actions taken in this Budget that figure will drop even further. The result will be that we will have an even greater setback in the amount of housing available. The young people cannot afford the homes. 
When in power we introduced a scheme to provide housing under a home savings grant scheme which was pooh-poohed by this Government which set about dismantling it. The scheme was to run out this year. The Government in its stupidity- that is all it is- has set aside $10m to provide the funding of these grants. It has not had the nous to realise that one cannot build a house to a limit of $22,500 including land. Where can a young couple build a home for that amount these days? In other words, that $10m will not be used. It is impossible to use it. So why not put that money somewhere else. The Government is only kidding itself in providing that amount in the Budget. It should wake up to itself and do something positive for the young people and raise that limit to $30,000 or more. It should not worry about providing larger grants but should enable the money to be used. In that way it would be helping the people who need it. I hope that as soon as we are returned to government we will reintroduce a promising scheme that was well received by all sections of the community for those who were prepared to save some money. 
I turn to nursing home benefits. Here I think we see one of the tragedies of this Budget. I say this knowing that the Government did feel the need for restraint. However, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out, there are areas in which we could cut the Budget expenditure further in the non-productive areas without affecting the welfare of the country. I should like to see the welfare services of the country extended to cover nursing home benefits. At present the government subsidy has been extended from $100.10 to $1 10.90 a week. To that is added the pension payment of $38.75 a week. That means that $149.65 is the amount that can be paid to the nursing home.' Yet under this Government nursing homes have now been authorised and told to charge a patient $169 a week. Who pays the additional $19.35 per week? Only if the people in those homes have relatives who can afford the extra amount will the charge be met. In my electorate I have a number of these homes. Already the people are coming to me complaining that they cannot afford to pay the extra $19.35 a week. What are they going to do? They cannot take the elderly people out of the nursing homes. These are very old people and their relatives cannot get them settled into government homes. This is one area to which I would ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon)  to give very serious attention. 
Let us have a look quickly at the situation with pensions. It has been proposed that there will be 2 increases per year from now on to be based on the consumer price index instead of on average weekly earnings. This proposal was designed to overcome another one of the vague promises made by this Government. The Government gave an undertaking that the pension would be raised to 25 per cent of average weekly earningsa promise it has never been able to keep because quite logically when the pension is raised the figure for average weekly earnings is based on the earnings several months prior to the time when the increase is made, as will be the case when the next increase is paid in November. By then the average weekly earnings will have gone way up. So the Government could not keep that promise. It has ducked out of it by taking this other option. Despite what the people opposite say about our not being interested in welfare my Party will introduce a system of automatic increases on a twice-a-year basis fixed on a proper system so that there will be no way that the people will miss out on the amount they are entitled to get as a pension. 
The Leader of the Opposition introduced a positive alternative to this Government's fiddly little Budget. The further cuts that he advocated would provide funding for development. Development does not mean, as the socialists opposite seem to think, only something in the pockets of the rich man or the businessman. Unless the businessman makes his profits, unless a business is viable, we do not have employment. The sooner Government supporters realise that one can spend a dollar only once and the Government cannot go spending millions of dollars on all sorts of things without having some strong private sector enterprise, the sooner they will understand the way to manage the economy of Australia. Under the leadership of the soontobePrime Minister of Australia. Malcolm Fraser, we will introduce a Budget that will make this country economical, viable, and progressive forever more. I have very much pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I wish to take up a matter which concerns the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I did advise him that I intended to raise this matter in the House. It concerns the promise given by the Minister relating to the establishment of the Aus.tralian Government Office building in Bendigo. I refer to a letter written by the Minister on 30 March 1 973 in which he said: 
I refer again to your letter of 9 February 1973, about the construction of an Australian Government office building in Bendigo. 
As you know, the Department of Services and Property has already acquired a site in Meyers Street, Bendigo. However, on further investigation', this site was found to be too small to suit the needs of departments already located in Bendigo, and on the advice of the Department of Works an adjoining property is being purchased this year. 
It is hoped that design work can commence on the proposed offices so that they can be included in a works program in 1974-75. This would mean completion in early 1977. 
It is rather startling that we have not seen sight nor sign of the works drawings. Certainly not even so much as a peg has been driven into the ground. Further- this leads up to something that the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  raised- I wrote to the Minister again on 20 May 1975. 1 note that the Minister has just come into the House and I thank him for doing so. In my letter concerning the Australian Government Office building in Bendigo I said: 
On 27 February 1975 I wrote seeking advice from you as to when it was anticipated construction of the Australian Government Office in Bendigo would commence. 
So far I have not received one iota of a reply from the Minister to that letter. That is typical of the lack of consideration given by Ministers to correspondence from members of the Opposition. As the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  says as he walks out, it is totally unjust. I agree with him. 
We have come to expect this attitude from a man who is the fastest talker in the House but who is the slowest to act. The Minister for Services and Property has quite a record apparently for not bothering to answer his mail. Probably he cannot read it. It is a pity, because it is important to the people in the area who are relying on having this Australian Government Office building. When the Minister was a new Minister back in 1973 he did not have much correspondence and so was able to write letters. He did bother to reply to my letter; so I faithfully published his promise in the newspaper. I can assure him that I have faithfully published it just about every month since to make sure that the people of Bendigo know that he has failed in his promise. Unfortunately now, due to its poor management of the economy, the Government is forced to take restraint after having nearly bankrupted the country and we find that the building will probably never go ahead. 
Australian Government departments are spread all over the place and, instead of having one building in Bendigo with the photograph of Gough Whitlam, the Prime Minister, in it, we have his photograph spread about in many places. That is a shame. The sooner the Minister puts up this building, even if only to get rid of some of those photographs, the better it will be for the people of Bendigo. It is urgent that this block of land, which is lying vacant and idle in the middle of the city, should have a nice building put on it so that all the Australian Government offices will be located in the one central spot, readily accessible to the people of the district. Perhaps the Minister Will deign to answer my letter some time. Incidentally I have sent him another one today. Providing he is fortunate enough to be still here, I expect that some time after Christmas I will receive a reply. 
I turn now to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison).  I wrote to him some time ago, and I wrote to his predecessors, concerning the acquisition of land in the Puckapunyal area as proposed by the Army. This is a remarkable situation. I criticise my own Party for this, because back in 1940 the Commonwealth Government of the day, through the Department of the Army as it then was, advised all the landholders and the farmers adjacent to the Puckapunyal Army Camp, in the areas of Tooboorac and Heathcote, that their land would be required for Army purposes. It is interesting to note that 35 years later the land is still being required but none of it has yet been bought. Even if a farmer was a young man of 20 at the time he would now be 55. There is no way in the world that he can sell his land. He cannot dispose of it. He has to sit on it. If he becomes ill or if unfortunately he passes away that farm cannot be used for anything else and it cannot be passed on to anybody else. 
When the Liberal and Country parties were in power and again during the last  2lA  years I have asked the Ministers concerned to do something about this matter. Surely to goodness when there is talk of restraint, cutting back on costs and spending money, it is logical that the Government should release this land and let the people on it have the option of selling or alternatively should give them an indemnity so that they can release that land to whoever might wish to take it over, with a guarantee of some years' coverage. There is no way at present in which the people there can get rid of this land. This is a tragedy. I am sure that even the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  with his little 20 feet by 20 feet block of land, would not Uke to be suffering as these people have suffered for so many years. 
Their member has been trying desperately for the last  2i  years to get something done. The previous member had less luck than I have had. I can assure the House that I will be trying for the next 20 years while I am here. I hope that the present Minister for Defence will look at this matter seriously and will take some positive action to help the people in this area who are trying desperately to obtain some relief from this terrible problem that has been hanging over their heads for so many years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Was the distribution of Medibank material handled by Pacific Photo Services and thereby the postal service was bypassed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Would he please answer my letter dated 14 May 1975. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Would he please answer my letter dated 1 7 April 1 97 5. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the right of retiring or resigning servicemen to commute their retirement pay is to be discontinued. 
Has a special committee been set up to report on this proposal; if so, when will its report be tabled. 
When does he expect to introduce legislation to discontinue commutation. 
-In rising to speak on the estimates for the Department of Agriculture I am immediately prompted to reply to the comments that have been made by honourable members opposite in this debate about what has been achieved by this Government for the rural sector. One looks at the postal charges, the telephone charges, petrol costs and the costs of cigarettes and beer which have all been increased. Of course, it can be said that they do not apply only to rural industries. However, increased postal charges and telephone charges and the increased cost of petrol as a result of increased indirect taxes have an effect on rural industries, as we will find that not only agricultural but also secondary industries in country areas will be gravely affected by these added costs. The socialist party claims that it tries to do a lot for the rural sector, but after the State Government in Victoria has provided relief from payroll tax to selected industries in an effort to promote decentralisation and provide assistance to the rural sector, what do we now find? Any benefit gained by industries in rural areas, decentralised industries, from this payroll tax rebate is completely lost in this Government's attack through taxation. The Government will take that profit back in income tax. 
There should be some arrangement between the Victorian and Australian Governments to acknowledge the efforts of the State Government in this area. Perhaps this could be done by providing that the amount of the payroll tax deduction need not be included in the profitability of the industry for taxation purposes. It does not add up that we should give this rebate on the one hand in an attempt to encourage decentralisation and rip it off the recipients on the other. I turn now to the superphosphate bounty. Much has been said about it and I will not go into all the pros and cons but I bring it forward in a particular context. I happened to look at the Australian Labor Party or socialist party platform, the one which the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is sending around to all departments and I notice that under 'Rural' clause 15, sub-clause 11 says that the Australian Labor Party will provide for fertiliser subsidies. That is an interesting point because it appears that the Government has departed from its Party's platform and has taken away those subsidies. Subclause 12 says: 
The Australian Government to provide funds where necessary to obviate the disparity between urban and rural areas in the cost of education, medical services, communications and other public utilities. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  mentioned that there was money granted to assist, I think he said, disadvantaged children. 
A grant for education. I acknowledge that that is fair enough, but when one looks at funds allegedly being provided to equalise opportunities in urban and rural areas it is hard to believe that this would be done by a Government which has taken away from the rural sector the petrol equalisation scheme which was designed to assist it. We have a government which has taken away the small difference in telephone rentals which was designed to assist people in the rural sector. One wonders whether the Australian Labor Party, when drawing up its platform, particularly in relation to the rural sector, just put its tongue in its cheek and took pot luck saying: "This Will sound attractive to the outsider. We really do not give a damn for the rural sector'. We are well aware that the socialist Government is not one bit interested in the rural sector. Clause 13 of the ALP rural platform states: 
Appropriate measures to adjust the levels of farm production in balance with realistic domestic and overseas market demands, in order to provide satisfactory prices to farmers - 
I think the present state of the rural industry as a whole would indicate that that clause is a complete and utter joke, as are the previous two I mentioned. I think the honourable member for Wilmot mentioned that aU sorts of climatic conditions and market conditions affect the beef industry. This is acceptable to a certain extent, but surely to goodness when the platform of the ALP contains the policies to which I have referred the Government should be doing something for the industry. It should provide some assistance, and urgently, before this whole sector folds up. Clause 14 states: 
Quotas for primary products to be transferable to achieve the best utilisation of resources. 
This I find very difficult to believe because I have been doing a little checking on the egg quota system that has been brought in, particularly in relation to the Australian Capital Territory. I raised with the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)-  he did answer the question- in relation to quotas being established, but it is a known fact that what is happening is that double quota systems are being organised by producers in New South Wales who are also in the A.C.T. They are flooding the market in other areas. This is an area where quotas perhaps could be looked at and shifted around. 
I raised a point with  Senator Wriedt  some time ago concerning beef. My proposal was not designed to provide a great outlet for beef, but at least I felt it would have been a positive step. Under the auspices of the previous Government there was introduced the Australian Wool Commission to buy surplus wool and store it until a market was available. This of course took the surplus away from the market and enabled the industry to progress and remain viable. I suggested to  Senator Wriedt  that something along similar lines be introduced in the beef industry. I did not suggest it just off the top of my head. I did quite a lot of examination of the situation. I checked out the cost of freezing meat. I know that there are pros and cons about the freezing of meat as a long-term useful product. I believe that the freezing of meat at the present time would take a tremendous tonnage off the market and assist the market considerably. 
I have figures to prove that meat can be kept in cold storage at a cost of less than 5c a lb per annum. Simple inflation of the retail price or the market price of beef would surely cover the cost of freezing the meat.  Senator Wriedt  just gave me a bland no. He said it could not be done. He claimed the cost was higher than 10c a lb. Obviously he did not even want to look at the scheme in depth, because bis statement that the price was going to be double the figures I had checked out was a ridiculous statement. There is ample cold storage available to take many tonnes of meat. This would take a big load off the market and it would create the energy and demand needed at the moment at the kilting yards. Unfortunately, in my own area of Bendigo the farmers and graziers who took over the former VIMA meatworks had to close down. Surely if there had been some means whereby we could have taken the beef in, had it slaughtered and frozen it would have perhaps helped these people. 
I go to another area concerning meat which it might be worth while for the Government to look at. I refer to meat inspection. At present we have a duplication of functions between the State and the Australian Governments. This duplication could be costing up to $lm a year. At the present time, with the Government desperately trying to cut costs, surely it would be a logical time for the State and Federal governments to get together and read some basis of understanding on the standard of meat inspection. We are employing people to inspect meat for export. It obviously has to be of a very high standard. Why can that standard not be accepted for the domestic retail market? Alternatively, there must be a way that the State and Federal systems can be brought together to get a levelling out of standards which is acceptable to both the States and to the Commonwealth. We could cut a tremendous amount of costs by bringing in a system of inspectorates acceptable to all parties. This I believe is something that should be looked at. I know it would not involve a large amount of money in terms of a $2,800m deficit, but I believe it is something that should be looked at. 
Just by chance I happened to be looking at a comment by the late  Sir Winston  Churchill about socialism. I think what he said is very apt when we look at the rural industry. He said: 
Socialism is the philosophy of failure, the creed of ignorance and the gospel of envy. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Would he please answer my letter dated 24 June 1975. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Would he please answer my letter dated 10 June 1975. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Would the Minister please answer my letter dated 1 July 1975. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer to the increased assistance for apprentices as advertised in a brochure issued by the Department of Labor and Immigration. I point out that notices have been served in relation to applications for the living away from home allowance. They state that as from 19 August 1975 payments will continue until completion of whatever year the apprentices are doing at present, that applications lodged after 20 August 1975 are not to be approved, that the prospective applicants are to be advised that the scheme is under review at present and that new applications are not to be approved. Does the Minister agree that this action by the Government will deter young people from entering apprenticeships, particularly in country areas? 
-In rising to speak on the Estimates for the Department of Education, I should like to draw the attention of the Committee to the information paper presented by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  I have found it most informative but I think it is also an instance of the pea and thimble trick. In the paper the Minister talks in terms of the massive increase in the overall amount related to education. In doing so he talks of an increase of $236m in the total amount of expenditure involved. If we analyse the figures supplied by the Minister which are given in the back of this paper, we realise that the universities are receiving an increase of 3 per cent over last year's allowance. We see that the colleges of advanced education are receiving an increase of approximately 3 per cent over last year's allocation. We see that the technical education area receives an increase of 41 per cent. But then we realise that in the field of universities, the amount expended is $569m; in the area of the colleges of advanced education it is $495m; but in the technical education field it is a mere $ 101m. So the 41 per cent in this respect is not such a large amount. 
If we look at the areas of schools, pre-schools, child care and the Schools Commission for State schools, we find that in relation to government schools in the States there is an increase of 4 per cent. These are hardly magnificent increases in the field of education when one considers inflation. The Minister has also pointed out in this paper that allowance Will be made for indexation. I accept this. It is obvious that if there is an inflationary rate running at 15 per cent to 20 per cent- one can select a figure because there seem to be many experts on the actual amount of inflation one allows for indexation of the amounts to cover any rise caused by inflation. Last year's estimate of $1,1 20m for Schools Commission programs rose to an expenditure of $l,326m because of indexation. This means we will obviously have to allow for at least another $200m to $300m in education expenditure to allow for indexation. To me the Government's estimate appears to be somewhat false. I am not saying that the Government should not allow for these increases, but the Government must allow for the fact that all the items in the Budget are going to be subject to the same pressures and if allowance is made for indexation in terms of rising costs because of the inflationary trends there will be an increase in the projected deficit of $2,750m to something like $3,000m or $4,000m because in education alone the increased expenditure will be at least $200m to $300m. 
I know that the Minister has received correspondence from the College of Advanced Education in Bendigo and also the state college in Bendigo expressing concern because the amount of money provided in these estimates for building programs is roughly the same as the amount proposed at the start of last year. This means, in effect, that when allowance is made for inflation, buildings will not be able to be completed. I think this has been quite clearly spelled out. I wonder what really is the value of even starting a building which cannot be completed because a building is useless unless it is completed. If adequate money is provided for building programs and allowance is made for increases in inflation we will find that the total push in respect of these estimates will far exceed the amount shown as the actual estimate of expenditure. 
I take nothing away from the Minister's report in any shape or form; in fact I compliment him on its presentation. It has been very well presented, but in presenting it he also outlined weaknesses in estimating expenditure. I realise he has had to conform to certain Treasury restrictions. We accept that, but in doing so he should not try to gild the lily by saying that this year there has been an overall increase in the allocation of funds on the previous year. There has been an increase but there are some relatively new areas of expenditure. I have mentioned the increase of 41 per cent in technical education. I look further down the table set out in the document on education attached to the Budget Papers and see that in the area of government schools, pre-schools and child care centres in the Territories the proposed expenditure has risen from $72m to $96m by roughly 3316 per cent. I suppose one can honestly admit- we have advocated this, or I certainly have- that one can spend a dollar only once. I am not in any way saying that the Government should be throwing money around. I merely point out that we should look at the real facts. The universities are getting an increase of 33 per cent but the colleges of advanced education are getting an increase of only 3 per cent. Surely this means that in effect there has been a cut in educational expenditure. This is what we have been telling these people who are concerned about this. We have said: 'Do not swallow the story that you are getting an increase. In effect you are getting a cut in the amount of money to be provided for your sector of education'. This is a fact. It is spelled out in this document in black and white and the figures are clear. If expenditure in this area is cut there will be a return to the problem of a banking up. 
The cutting out of the triennium arrangements has provided a very easy excuse for the Government to say, as the Minister has done very plausibly and very nicely, that requests have been sent back to the various commissions asking them to review their cases. They have put a lot of time and study into this and they know how much money they need to make a success of their goals based on their expenditure in the last triennium. They did not come along and ask for the moon; their requests were based on proper reports. The Government has used this excuse of going back to re-think the situation as a basis for holding up education programs which is has so proudly presented and which it has so proudly said represents great achievements. I do not deny that the Government has achieved a lot in education but it is starting to go downhill in this field right now. 
The biggest mistake the Government has made is in not continuing the triennium payments. The schools cannot budget properly for their building projects and education programs with money being appropriated for only one year. The Minister is well aware that during the last triennium a lot of money was provided for various areas of education as is clearly set out in the Minister's report. I agree with speakers, I think from both sides of this chamber, that much of this money was not used correctly and that this is one of the areas of concern. I do not entirely blame the Australian Government for this. One of the problems facing State governments is that they are told almost overnight that they have to spend a large amount of money in a very short space of time. They are told that they have to use it aU up. This creates a pressure with the States trying to use up the money that has been provided. That does not exonerate the States in any way, because in many cases I believe the State education authorities have used money unwisely. 
The Australian Government, like some State education systems, has not used money wisely either. The fact that the States may have made some mistake does not exonerate this Government. A Government supporter- the windmill up the back- is laughing. This is a serious matter. I only hope that the Government calls for additional reports very quickly, reviews the situation and brings in new triennium arrangements. I hope it comes forward with an honest policy and an honest estimate of the money that will need to be provided for expenditure on education. If the Government is going to stick to the Budget, as the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has stated, and if it is not to have a deficit in excess of $2,500m I would like the Minister to explain whether allowance has been made for indexation to cover cost increases which the Minister has stated in this report have been provided for. I stated at the commencement of my remarks that this report was well presented but it is a plausible cover-up for the old pea and thimble trick of now you see it but you do not ever get it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Would he please answer my letter dated 3 July 1 975. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Would he please answer my letter dated 3 June 1975. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Would he please answer my letter dated 5 May 1975. 
-In rising to speak to the estimates for the Department of Environment and the Department of Tourism and Recreation I would firstly like to refer to a point made by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb).  He commented on the Australian Government's call for impact statements and subsequent inquiries being necessary prior to any projects being commenced. I give the Government an assurance that when there is a change of government the present Opposition certainly will carry out the same policy in regard to environmental impact statements. That has been clearly stated by the shadow minister on this side of the chamber. I think that point should be made clear in the  Hansard  record. 
I noted with interest one particular item when looking at the proposed expenditure for the Department of Environment in the Appropriation Bill. I know the item is not a big one but it is interesting to note. In preparing its estimates the Department has cut its allocation for postage and telephones, etc, from $71,000 to $51,000. That seems to me to be rather amazing. We found immediately prior to the Budget being announced that telephone costs increased and postage was to go up by about 80 per cent. I would have imagined that instead of the allocation for this item being reduced from $71,000 to $51,000 it would more likely be increased to about $140,000. 1 wonder whether this is indicative that all costs are being worked out in such a haphazard manner. That would not be at all surprising. 
One of the areas under the control of the Department of Environment is that relating to impact statements on the acquisition or use of land. At present in the area of my electorate near Gisborne in Victoria, the Mount Macedon area, people who quite recently purchased blocks of land in the area have found to their utter dismay, having spent many thousands of dollars, that under an ordinance of the local council, which itself has acted quite correctly under instructions from the State Government and the Town Planning Authority, they are not allowed to build a house on this land. An environmental impact statement issued on the land in that area has shown that it is environmentally not practicable or desirable that homes should be built in these areas. I do not argue with this. I believe that it is proper for such organisations or authorities to make these decisions. But what I am concerned about it this: Who is to compensate the people concerned? What action can the people who own these blocks of land take to be compensated? These blocks are owned in many instances by people who wanted to move 30 or 40 miles away from the metropolitan area to get away from the smog of the city and enjoy nice clear country air. Members of this Parliament should be hoping that many more people will follow their example and move out of the cities. But these people who have spent most or all of their life savings to buy a block of land have now found that that land is to be taken away from them with the awful possibility that they will have absolutely no refund or will in no way be compensated. 
In drawing this matter to the attention of the Minister I recognise that he is not directly responsible. But I think that as Minister for Environment he has an indirect responsibility.  His  Department, the Australian Government and the State Government are rightly concerned to preserve the ecology but I believe that we must consider compensating the people who suffer as a consequence. It is all very well to say that we are going to preserve a particular piece of land, that we are going to stop people from building on a particular piece of land. But what happens to the people who own the land? Who is going to compensate them? I seriously ask the Minister to look at this matter. The Minister in conjunction with his Cabinet colleagues and the appropriate Ministers in the States could have a very serious look at ways and means of providing funds to compensate these people, either by a cash compensation or by the provision of an alternative block of land. 
The State Governments have not got the money to provide compensation of this type. After all, they are allocated a certain amount of money and they must budget accordingly. The Australian Government is the source of income. The Australian Government is the power that provides money under section  96  for all types of things, particularly matters that concern the States and which the States believe should be carried out. I suggest that this is an area that needs urgent attention. I would like the Minister for Environment, who is at the table, to take note of this matter because these people are in need of assistance. I am not saying that the Australian Government or the Australian Labor Party is responsible for the situation; I think this is something about which we should all be very seriously concerned. I am sure that the Minister and the Government agree that the last thing anybody wants to do is to hurt the people who have gone to the trouble of buying these blocks of land. 
I turn to the estimates for the Department of Tourism and Recreation. I would like to mention  2  things that strike me as being remarkable in regard to these estimates. I happened by chance to find in my files a copy of the platform, constitution and rules of the Australian Labor Party. Do honourable members know that the subjects of tourism and recreation are not listed in the platform? 
I admit that I am referring to the document formulated at Surfers Paradise in  1973.  Perhaps it could have been brought up to date. I accept what the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  has said in that regard. However, I just wonder why tourism, which is one of the most important areas, was not mentioned in that platform. 
The Minister has not been allocated a great deal of money. I would like to see him given a larger grant and allocations to other sections cut down. After all, tourism is one of the fastest growing industries in the country. I know that the Minister is very dedicated to providing large sums of money to the Bendigo area to help us with several of our projects. I would like to raise at this stage  2  important projects in the area which we believe should be proceeded with. One is the Dai-Gum-San village which is based on the old Chinese gold mining era in Bendigo. The Minister knows about and has been informed of this project. He has been most helpful. I realise that he is only being prevented at present from making a grant or offering to support this project to the extent that we ask by a lack of funds. I certainly hope that in the next  12  months when this project is under way he will then have sufficient funds to assist us. 
The other project which is of more immediate concern is the Mount Alexander Koala Park Reserve. I would like the Minister particularly to take note of this project. The Minister has indicated that subject to the Victorian State Government giving priority to this project he will give assistance. I understand that the State Government has done this. I would ask the Minister to provide the grant that is necessary to finance this project. For the information of honourable members the Mount Alexander Koala Park is located at Mount Alexander just outside Castlemaine, between Castlemaine and Bendigo. For many many years it has been operated on an honorary basis by very keen and dedicated conservationists who have put thousands of hours, many years, of work into trying to maintain this reserve. A small income is received from tourists who are requested to put money in a box at the gate. Unfortunately, many people prefer to pass the gate and go in for nothing. But I can assure the Minister that this reserve is one of the two places in Victoria where koalas are being preserved. It is important that the reserve be preserved because the trees growing there are suitable for koalas. The reserve cannot be kept in operation much longer under the present arrangements, for the simple reason that the costs of providing new fencing required and the cost of providing the various other amenities for tourists cannot be met with the minute amount of income that is available. So I would ask the Minister to look at this matter. 
I would also ask the Minister to look at his budget because I note that the estimate for his postage and telephone charges is down from  $50,000  to  $40,000.  Surely this must be a joke. I am very disturbed to think that I will not be able to receive telephone calls and letters from the Minister to advise me of the grants that he most sincerely wants to provide. I would like to see the Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  get together and reassess the amount of money that they must surely spend in this area. After all, we are all aware of the extremely high cost inflicted on the community as a whole by the Australian Government as a result of increased postal and telephone charges. 
I was rather astonished when I looked at Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) to see the staggering figures in the administrative expenses of the Department of Services and Property for salaries and payments and also telephone, postage and cleaning charges. Taking into account today's rate of inflation and the fact that the Government is allowing for a one per cent or  VA  per cent increase in growth in the public sector, we find that salaries and payments are to be reduced by $6m. Postage charges have risen from 10c to 18c and telephone charges have been increased but we find that there is a reduction of $2,460,000 in the postage and telephone estimates for this Department. I turn now to the appropriation for cleaning. All of us know the problems associated with and the cost of cleaning our offices. Under the heading 'Administrative Expenses', we find that the cleaning budget is to be reduced by $3,600,000. 
-This deals with the administrative section and not with the offices of members of Parliament We see that the appropriation for contract cleaning has fallen from $7,010,000 last financial year to $3,600,000, this financial year. I believe that such a proposition is a totally stupid one to put forward. Fancy anybody in the light of today's inflationary costs, with charges continually rising, coming forward not only with a non-growth factor but actually with a reduction in the appropriation for this purpose. I pointed out in earlier speeches today when debating the appropriations that the Government is totally deceiving everybody. All of the estimates for the various Departments in respect of postal charges have been reduced by approximately 50 per cent. I say to the Committee that this is not possible. There is no way the Government can achieve these savings unless it sacks its employees. The only way to reduce expenditure to this extent is to cut down on the costs of salaries and on the costs of phone calls. One cannot see the Minister for Services and Property cutting back on the costs he incurs in that respect. I believe that the Minister is seeking to delude the people of Australia totally when he brings forward a proposition proposing to cut back on these costs in respect of administrative expenses. Will the Minister stand up in a few moments and tell us that he intends to sack a large number of the employees of his Department? The total expenditure in respect of salaries and overtime by his Department last year was $24,834,653. The appropriation sought this financial year has been reduced to $18,243,300. That is roughly a cut of one-third. If we allow for the fact that inflation is continuing and that the usual increase in wages is approximately 20 per cent, we should see a cut in the staff of the Minister's Department of approximately 40 per cent to 45 per cent. I asked the Minister to tell us tonight whether he is going to introduce such a cut-back and retrench 45 per cent of the staff of his Department. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Would he please answer my letter dated 25 June 1 975. 
-There are one or two points I would like to mention in particular while speaking to these estimates in order to answer the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  He made statements which showed his lack of understanding of the cost of building and trends in the building industry today as compared with when the Opposition parties were in Government. He made the great statement that this year the Australian Government is providing the same amount of money as last year and therefore is providing the same service. Obviously the honourable member forgot that there is such a thing as inflation which is running at about 20 per cent. However, even allowing for that, he did not bother to consider that when our parties were in Government a house cost between $6,000 and $9,000 and that the same house today costs, at least $20,000 to $30,000. Considering that increase I think the Government of today in fact is supplying less money when compared with what was provided then. 
If one looks at the Australian Labor Party policy or platform, as produced at Terrigal, to see what it says about housing, unfortunately one does not find it mentioned. The ALP does not have a policy on housing. This is understandable when we see the hash it is making of the housing situation. Returning to my comments about the cost of housing when the Opposition parties were in Government I want to refer back to 1972 when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made the promise in his election speeches to the people of this country that if elected to office he would reduce the cost of houses by between $2,000 and $6,000. 1 think everybody would agree, even the muddle-headed members on the Government side of the chamber, that judging by the tremendous increase in the cost of housing the Prime Minister was quite wrong, as he has been on so many occasions. 
I refer honourable members now to Appropriation Bill (No. 1). On the several occasions on which I have had the opportunity of speaking about the Estimates I have drawn the attention of the House to what I consider the blatant disregard of honesty by the Government in drawing up its estimates. It has not taken into consideration the true facts of variations. In the housing appropriation, under administration, it has reduced the estimate for travelling by $400,000 and has reduced the estimate for office requisites by $69,000 as against the figures for last year. Here again you find this remarkable situation of the Government not understanding budgeting and not understanding finance. It has reduced the cost of postage, telegrams and telephones by some $370,000. Honestly, is it not a fact that the cost of postage and telephones has gone up by some 80 per cent? 
How on earth can this Government afford to estimate for such reductions? It is totally ridiculous, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  indicates by the smile on his face. The estimate for motor vehicles has been reduced by $240,000. Perhaps the Minister and all his staff are going to ride to work on horseback or by bicycle. Yet the Australian Housing Corporation has increased its estimate in the administration section by $44m. In preparing this Budget the Treasurer obviously took note of what the various Ministers proffered to him as proposed cuts at his request. They said they would cut here and there. But there is no way in the world that one could cut all these costs unless one reduced staff to use the various vehicles or the factors that I have outlined. The staff are still there. They will travel, use the telephone and use the same amount of postage. 
It appears to me that in many sectors of the Budget, not only in this one, as I mentioned the other day this Government has provided for extremely large amounts in hidden sectors of administration- hidden away where the Government hopes the people of Australia will not see them. I have done my sums on these cuts. Outside the transferring of expenditure from the Department of Services and Property to the Department of Urban and Regional Development, I think, the total amount of general cuts in administration costs alone is something like  $2lAm.  There has not been a reduction in staff; in fact I think there is an allowance for an increase of 1  Vi  per cent. So obviously this is a complete lie and a contradiction, as I stated before. 
I turn now to the advances to the States. These come up for question time and time again. The Budget shows that there has been a total reduction of $23.8m in advances to the States. How can the Minister say there is no reduction to the States. Obviously there is. I refer to a Press release which I know was issued before the Budget but nevertheless on the eve of the Budget. By that time, on 20 July, the Minister for Housing and Construction surely would have provided the Treasurer with all his estimates of costs because the Treasurer has to have his Budget ready by the beginning of August. The Minister issued a Press release which stated: 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the Medical Services Adviser,  Dr L.  H. R. Drew of the Drugs of Dependence Section of the Australian Department of Health, also operate, in partnership with 2 other doctors in Melbourne, a private hospital known as the Delmont Private Hospital. 
If so, does this private hospital deal in alcohol and drug related cases, and is it a fact that  Dr Drew's  special function with the Department of Health also relates to these matters. 
What money does this hospital receive either directly or indirectly from the Australian Government. 
Is the Delmont Private Hospital a registered private hospital or nursing home. 
) Can he say whether it is a commercial concern. 
What are the terms of  Dr Drew's  appointment with the Department of Health, what is his salary, and what is his history and current status with the Delmont Private Hospital. 
How does  Dr Drew's  advertised private practice relate to Public Service Regulations. 
Can he say whether  Dr J.  R. Moon, who is listed in partnership with  Dr Drew,  is the  President  of the Australian Foundation for Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (AFADD) 
What moneys does AFADD receive from the Australian Government, and what honoraria, fees expenses, or other payments does  Dr Moon  receive by reason of his AFADD position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Would the Minister answer my letter dated 15 May 1975. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for deigning to look this way this time. I am indeed appreciative of it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Order! The honourable member will withdraw that remark. It is a reflection on the Chair. 
-If it is a reflection on the Chair I withdraw it,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but twice we did not get the call. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Bendigo may continue. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  Speaking to the estimates for the Department of the Media, I find that it is difficult to accept the words from the members of the Australian Labor Party, the Government side, saying how open minded they are in their approach to the media. One has only to look at what we have witnessed on television and in the Press over the last 12 months to realise that this Government is using the media for all that it is worth to promote its socialist ideals. I wonder what would happen should an election soon be at hand. How far would the Government really extend itself to use the media. to its own gain? The Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  who is at the table, looked up at me when I made the point that the Government is using the media to spread the Government's socialist ideals and the Government's policies and as a means of advancing the party platform and policies. Honourable members should just have a look at a little brochure called  Housing Under Labor  which was distributed. It was basically designed to show what the Government had done in housing, but the Government could not resist the opportunity to present in that document a purely political stance by commenting on the Opposition's attitude and making typically political electioneering statements in the brochure. It was designed to embarrass the Opposition and to be used purely as a policy advancing basis for the Government. 
There are many such brochures around. The Minister cannot deny that that is the purpose of the brochure because it is quite clear in black and white. This is the type of thing that this Government has been doing with the Media funds. We realise that the Government is prepared to spend millions on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We see the tendency for the Government to exploit the media- under direction no doubt- for its own use. I cannot speak too strongly against this type of practice. 
I approached the previous Minister for the Media several times and I think I approached the present Minister for the Media once on the matter of trying to establish a relay station in the Seymour district to enable the country people located around that area to obtain a variety of viewing apart from the Australian Broadcasting Commission station. I have met with absolute frustration and no response. The Minister drops his lip as much to say: 'Oh, we do not do that'. We do not have the relay station so obviously the Government is not prepared to let the proposal go through. It will not cost the Government anything. The private enterprise that the Government hates so much is prepared to pay for it. The Government is prepared to spend millions of dollars on the ABC at the drop of a hat to do anything, to set up relay stations or whatever it likes so that the Government can get its own format of the media across to the public. But when the private enterprise that the Government detests so much wants to try to present something to the people in the remoter areas the Government resists it. I am talking now of a chain of stations that provide at present under the private enterprise system, ranging from Mildura, Swan Hill and Bendigo to Gippsland, a good range of commercial programs. There are relay stations in that area to provide the alternative ABC station. So there is no doubt that there is a variety there. Yet the same opportunity is not given to the people in the Seymour district to get better viewing. I am not saying that they cannot receive these stations. The Minister knows better and I am not suggesting that at all. But the reception from them is very poor. The Minister or his predecessor claimed that tests were made which showed that people in the area were getting adequate reception. That is taking notice of people who sit down and take notes of figures, who have not experienced or tried to sit at a television set and see the actual reception under all conditions. People at Seymour have asked me repeatedly to try to obtain the granting of this relay station for their benefit. 
The request has not come totally from the private enterprise people who want to put it in; it has come from the people of Seymour who are not getting the reception they want. We often listen in this chamber to statements that private enterprise, the big boys in business, are running the country. For goodness sake, if they are doing that, why can they not do things that are quite positive? Why can they not be allowed to put up a relay station to enable the people in the more remote areas to receive the rights that those in the city areas already have? 
I do not want to speak long, and I do not intend to speak long on this subject, because I believe that most of the things that need to be said have been said. I am concerned for this particular area. I have asked many times. It is becoming extremely frustrating to try to get some assistance. We get fobbed off all the time with the information that tests have been made and there is adequate reception. There is adequate reception for the ABC perhaps but not for the commercial stations. I would ask the Minister to give this matter his particular attention. At the same time, now that he is in the chair as Minister for the Media, perhaps he might see in future that brochures presented under the auspices of his Department confine themselves to promoting the Government's work and do not try to denigrate the Opposition and so become political brochures. 

 Dr CASS (Maribyrnong- Minister for the 
-I should like to query with the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  whether the type of project of which he is talking will in any way interfere with the operations of the work force in any other Government ordinance factory in the Commonwealth. 
-I ask the Minister: Will the proposal which is being put forward now in any way inhibit or hurt the work force of any other ordinance factory throughout the Commonwealth? 

 Mr RIORDAN (Phillip)-Minister for Housing and Construction) (2.44)- This proposal is concerned with the establishment of certain facilities which are already in existence. They are going to be transferred from one location to another. Before that transfer can occur, certain new work must be done in respect of the construction of a new building and the rehabilitation of another. I fail to see how that can possibly affect the work. 
That answers my question. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Would the Minister please answer my letter dated 3 June 1975. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Would he please answer my letter dated 1 May 1975. 

 -Mr Speaker, I should like to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  who claimed that as the Opposition Whip I was making puerile calls to draw attention to the state of the House. I think that you will agree with me,  Mr Speaker,  that it is the Government's job to maintain the numbers in the House. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Bendigo moving a motion to suspend notices S to 7, Government Business, until after Order of the Day No. 1, and so enable private members - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Bendigo be no longer heard. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the Red Cross refuse permission for medical volunteers for Timor to travel on an empty RAAF aircraft scheduled to fly from Richmond to Darwin. 
Do RAAF aircraft fly to Darwin under control of the Red Cross organisation. 
If so, by what authority does the Red Cross have charge of RAAF operations. 
If the position is as stated, is the Australian Government shirking its responsibility by allowing the Red Cross organisation to take charge and make decisions in respect of RAAF flight operations. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that PMG credit cards for use by Australians overseas are not accepted in many countries which are listed as places where such credit cards will be accepted. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that letter receptacles throughout Australia are to be repainted. 
Is it also a fact that the 'ER' at present on the receptacles is to be deleted. 
If the position is as stated, what cost will be incurred in the repainting of these receptacles. 
-Is the Leader of the House aware that nearly all members of the Opposition including, I believe, the Leader of the Opposition, fled from the Parliament last Thursday night before 10 p.m. because of a threatened airline strike? I ask also whether the Leader of the House agrees that that action shows a total disregard for the Parliament which was not due to rise until 1 1 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. During the many visits he has made to various defence force establishments throughout the Commonwealth has the Minister been queried at all as to proposed changes in the commutation of defence force retirement fund benefits? Will the Minister advise whether any change is proposed? If so, what is the normal procedure to be followed in introducing such a change? 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I started to feel like a lift for a while, going up and down all the time. I was prompted to join in the adjournment debate tonight by the rather startling revelation that we had in the House tonight at the end of the Address-in-Reply debate on the GovernorGeneral's Speech. After listening to the debate for the number of weeks that the AddressinReply has been before the House, and having heard the castigations by the Australian Labor Party of the Governor-General personally and of the Address-in-Reply, and having heard Opposition members point out all the problems and the faults of the Governor-General, we now find that they did not even - 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I will not continue the Address-in-Reply debate; I merely say with your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  that I wish to draw the attention of the House to a rather strange circumstance. The Opposition was not prepared to stand up for its principles and vote. This will be recorded in the annals of Hansard and in the annals of Parliament to show that the Opposition has not got the strength of its convictions. Unfortunately I cannot mention the way that the person concerned in the AddressinReply was treated so I shall go on to another matter which has been drawn to my attention. 
During the recent election campaign an honourable member who was a Minister of the previous Government allowed the use of the official pre-paid envelope for the circulation of election propaganda. These envelopes,  Mr Speaker,  which you are aware were introduced for the use of members of Parliament, were to be posted from Canberra. This former Minister apparently arranged to receive a batch of letters signed, and obviously took the envelopes to the source of the signatures, had them all addressed by the people concerned and then brought them back to Canberra for posting. The letters were signed by a  Mr E.  A. Costanzo who I understand is one of the directors of an Italian newspaper. 
The letters were used for promoting the Australian Labor Party in the last election campaign, and in fact were used to attempt to gain votes for that former Minister. I think that this shows a typically blatant disregard for the use of public funds and the use of parliamentary privilege that the Labor Party so readily indulged in, and which drew the wrath of the people down on its head. 
I intend to ask that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  or the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  look into this matter and see whether any action should be taken in relation to a breach of privilege. In fact it may well be that it should be your decision on this matter,  Mr Speaker.  I advised the person concerned that I intend to mention this tonight. I think such an action on behalf of the former Minister was totally disrespectful and was certainly a flagrant breach of privilege by a member of Parliament, particularly by a Minister of the Crown, making use of these envelopes which were handed out in a very restricted manner by the former  Speaker  of the House who so often stands up in the House and apparently imagines that he is still the  Speaker  of the House. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The person who said it would not have the strength of character to stand up and withdraw it either. I do not want to prolong the matter. I think the matter has been aired. I have the necessary papers here and I will hand them over to the right authorities. I had to draw this matter to the attention of the House - 
Br Klugman-  Mr Speaker,  I raise a point of order. Is it fair for the honourable member for Bendigo to raise these questions when he himself paid the deposit for a fictitious Country Party candidate so as to enable him to get back into this House? 

 - Mr Speaker, that just shows how frightened they are about this matter. Perhaps the papers could be included in  Hansard. 

 I seek leave to have the papers incorporated in  Hansard. 
Opposition members- No. 
-Strangely enough,  Mr Speaker,  I did not think it would be. 
Listening to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  one is liable to draw a couple of conclusions, and one is that he apparently knows quite a lot about shipping. But I am prompted to remember that not so long ago while he was trying to start his motor boat it took oil and he fell out because he had not pulled up the anchor. 
My question to the Attorney-Genera! relates to legal aid services. Is the Minister aware that fees due to many members of the legal profession for services rendered on behalf of the Australian legal aid offices are long overdue? Will the Minister assure the House that he will take action to speed up the payment of these outstanding debts? 
-The subject listed today as a matter of public importance reads: 
The necessity for the Government to make a prompt commitment to selective decentralisation. 
The only argument that Opposition supporters have been able to put forward has been on the matter of growth centres. Apart from mentioning growth centres as some form of decentralisation in a specialised manner they have avoided the very topic listed for debate. One can understand why. Why has the Opposition used the term 'selective decentralisation'? Let me just check back over the record of the Opposition, this former socialist government, which talked about decentralisation. Who increased telephone charges? Who cut out the petrol equalisation scheme that was designed by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government to assist decentralised industries? Who imposed tariff cuts and forced import duties on us which caused many decentralised industries and country industries to close? It was the very people opposite who have brought forward this so-called matter of public importance. At the last election the people of this country summed them up as not being interested in decentralisation in any shape or form. Opposition supporters have no idea of what is going on in rural areas. Let us be honest about this. In talking about decentralisation all they are interested in is setting up some specialised centres that might be of some electoral advantage to themselves. 
Some years ago the State Government of Victoria set down a program to provide a certain number of growth centres as part of an overall decentralisation program. It was part of an overall program. Under this program certain cities were designed for development. To name a few, they included Geelong, Ballarat, I think Warrnambool, Bendigo and Wodonga. These areas were to be growth centres in the true sense of balanced growth- not growth in one particular spot in a State. It was not a matter of setting up a new Public Service sector. It was a matter of undertaking proper decentralisation not by force, not by forcing people to move or by shifting certain public bodies to an area but by encouraging industry. The State Government of Victoria provided encouragement by reducing payroll tax for industries prepared to decentralise, but the previous Federal socialist Government, now the Opposition, offset that encouragement quite easily by not allowing any acknowledgment of that effort by the State Government when assessing income tax and as a result any gain made by decentralised industry was taken away at the taxation end. 
The former socialist Government, this present Opposition, just cannot understand that if you want to help the people of this country- if you really want to help them- what you have to do is to encourage industry to move. You have to provide incentives to allow industry to move. The towns and cities to which the industries move will develop, the people who work in those industries will prosper and, as I said, everybody should benefit from this. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said in his speech that in the 6 months we had been in office we had given away a commitment to decentralisation, we had stopped the funding and so on. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has acknowledged that the funds set out in the Budget that the Leader of the Opposition introduced when he was in office are to cover expenditure in this area this year, so how have we stopped the funding? Why do we have to make a decision like he did when he raced across the lake in December 1972 and made the marvelous 340-odd decisions? Why do we have to do that sort of thing? Look where that led us during the 3 years that his Party was in office. It led us into an embarrassing situation financially as a country. It has not achieved anything at all. It has destroyed us. In effect, we are planning properly. We are looking at every avenue of expenditure in relation to the responsibilities of government, and when the proper time arrives the areas in which expenditure is needed most will certainly receive it. It is all right for Opposition supporters to say that we have cut off money but we have not done this. The money is there. It has been provided for expenditure this year and we are committed to that Budget. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition talked about Government cuts in relation to AlburyWodonga. He mentioned a proposed reduction that he got out of some newspaper. Let me reiterate that we on this side are well aware that the Labor Party, the socialist Party, when in government relied on newspapers as its sole means of communication. It even allowed its own members to find out what was going to happen by reading it in the newspapers and certainly when we were the Opposition that was the only way we could find out what the Labor Government was doing in office. But, fortunately, we do not work that way. We work by the proper parliamentary means. So I advise the Deputy Leader of the Opposition not to take too much notice of what his former colleagues and supporters who now write for newspapers put in writing. I suggest that he wait and see, as is proper, what the Government is going to do. 
The honourable member talked about a reduction of expenditure on growth centres. Let us be realistic about this. Assume for argument's sake that there was to be a change in funding. An amount of $65.9m is involved in the development of Albury-Wodonga. I wonder whether the people on the other side of the House have been to Albury-Wodonga to see what has happened. Miles and miles and acres of land have been bought. Land has been bought all over the place. There is no doubt that land is a good investment, but surely it would have been much more prudent to mark some of the areas of land for future development and to hold the land in that way, as I can well remember the Army did with land around Puckapunyal. Perhaps it held it too long; nevertheless, that is the way it did it. It did not rush in and buy the land straight away and it still has not bought it. 
Of the money that has been spent in Albury millions have gone in the purchase of land. We have a large force of public servants working there, although we do not know what they are working on. They are there. They are being paid. No doubt they are doing a very valuable job, but when I was visiting the place they proudly told me that they were selling their first batch of land and this was only late last year. The first batch of land was being sold, they told me, at much below prices for equivalent land anywhere else, particularly land in Melbourne, and it was being sold for $8,000. 1 can assure them that they could have bought better blocks than that in Bendigo for about $5,000. But those blocks were developed by private developers. When I queried how the land was costed I was told that in fact this land was the best value and the price was much lower than equivalent land anywhere else, but I could not get an answer as to how the land was costed. I am led to believe because of the lack of communication on this point- and I intend to pursue this further as soon as possiblethat this land has in fact been heavily subsidised. 
It is all very well to say that you can set up a development area anywhere and that it does not matter where it is. If a government is going to set up a growth centre anywhere it does not necessarily follow that it will provide the cheapest land to the people in the area at all. What really happens is that the total costs involved in the development of the land are not taken into account, and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, who has now left the House, is well aware of this. The situation is that Albury-Wodonga, as with other areas, represents a large investment of money, money which is going to remain stagnant for many years. Large farms were purchased. In lots of cases immediately the deal was made with the farmer he was told that he could have his property back at a very low lease for the next 20 years, or some lengthy term. What sort of an arrangement is that? The farmer was given a mammoth amount of money for the purchase of his land and then he was allowed to continue operating it at the cost of a very low lease. That is not economy, it is stupidity. 
Fortunately there has been a change of government and we will be able to rationalise this waste of money. Buying land is not a waste of money in itself but it is a waste of money if too much land is bought at one time and if tied up indefinitely, particularly when we have such a strained economy. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, in his usual blase way, said that he would have gone on spending money there for the next 5 years. Obviously he forgot that his Party when in government had a Treasurer with no knowledge of the economy, a man who produced a Budget for this year with a proposed deficit of $2,700m. Within 3 months, by the time that Government was thrown out of office, that deficit had risen to $4,800m. How could he rationalise and offer this Parliament a real basis of argument for saying that his Party logically could have gone on spending money in this way? It could not have happened and he knows it. He knows, now that he is in Opposition, that he can say anything he likes because it does not matter. The fact is that the previous Government wasted public funds and did not plan correctly. He talked about localised growth rather than planned and reasonable development. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it a fact that a proclamation has been issued to phase out the jurisdiction of the State supreme courts to hear divorce proceedings and other matters under the Family Law Act? Will this mean that people resident in areas such as 
Bendigo who at present are covered by the Supreme Court circuit will now be forced to travel to metropolitan cities such as Melbourne in order to attend Family Court hearings? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What are the names and political affiliations of all speakers on ABC current affairs programs during the last 3 months. 
What was the total time occupied by speakers known to have affiliations with (a) the Australian Labor Party, (b) the Liberal Party, (c) the National Country Party (d) Communist Parties and (e) Other Parties. 
-I must address a few remarks in response to the shadow Minister for Health, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  because I am at a loss to understand why he is carrying on so much about the $50m. He talked about the special account. He went to great pains to say that was cut out when Labor came into office, which is not true. To the best of my belief the special account was carried on and in fact it was costing the previous Government about $ 100m per annum. We have cut that in half to $50m. 
-I am not. I am relying on information supplied by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  The shadow Minister asks why these people who decide to insure themselves for intermediate or private hospital care with the private funds should have the privilege of being looked after free of charge, the cost being paid by the taxpayers, if they are chronically ill and their stay in hospital is longer than 35 days. I point out to the honourable member that most of these people - 
-I am not talking about the way you are going to lose money over your pathology services. I am sorry about that, but we brought in legislation to stop people like you making a bundle. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -The Chair does not know this. Perhaps the honourable member for Bendigo would see his way clear to withdraw the statement as the honourable member for Prospect is not a pathologist. 
-I am prepared to withdraw. The honourable member said he was not a pathologist. I never said he was. I said people like him. The shadow Minister for Health made the point that some members of the medical profession were making a fortune out of organising visits. As the shadow Minister, I think it was, said earlier, under the current regulations 3 visits a day are allowed, but people in the medical profession can order three more visits a day. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I thank the honourable member for his point of order. I am trying to decide whether the honourable member meant it personally or whether he was generalising. I am not quite certain about it. If the honourable member for Prospect takes offence I think it might facilitate the discussion if the honourable member for Bendigo were to make an unqualified withdrawal. 
-Certainly I withdraw the remark if it offends the honourable member for Prospect. I was saying that members of the public who elect to take other than ordinary public ward insurance are people who because of their income obviously can afford to pay, but I point out to the shadow Minister who said that he could not understand the Government's reasoning that these people pay large amounts in taxation, per head, not across the board as a gross number of collective people as against a gross number who cannot afford to pay. Each one individually pay more in taxation. To me that is common sense. I think even the shadow Minister would accept that a person on $12,000 a year or $20,000 a year is paying a greater percentage in taxation than persons on lesser incomes. We know- and again I say that even the shadow Minister would agree- that the Medibank levy which will be paid by those who choose not to take out other insurance will raise only a percentage of the total cost of running Medibank. People like the shadow Minister and others who are on a salary of more than $12,000 and who pay large amounts in tax will be subsidisinggladly I hope, because I am quite happy about it- those who are getting treatment free and, those who pay only the Medibank levy. We are not arguing about it. We are happy about it. I cannot understand why Opposition supporters cry out about those who can afford to pay more, such as the shadow Minister and others, and who might elect to pay a higher rate in private insurance, just because they happen to be in hospital for more than 35 days- not very many will do that- and will get free treatment. 
The taxation they pay more than adequately covers them. You should sit down and think this out. If you do I think you will find it is a reasonable argument to put forward. 
Another matter raised by the shadow Minister was the special fund. I reiterate that the honourable member is totally wrong in saying that we are making a gift of $50m to the private health funds. I think he should check the facts. 
-In supporting the remarks of my colleague the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  I should like, firstly, to say I think the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  introduced this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders to try to calm down the situation somewhat- something that perhaps we all want to see happen. But I point out to him that there was an opportunity for both the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is a shadow Minister, to air their views in relation to the Prices Justification Tribunal- one presenting a statement on it and the other replying to the statement. This had been arranged. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  stated that when he was Prime Minister and when we were in Opposition there was no interference with the time provided for grievance debates and general business debates. Although this is something that I would have to check out, I accept his word on it. 
I remember many occasions when we were in Opposition and wanted to raise matters which we believed were important. We were gagged before we could say even two or three words. On occasions we listed matters of public importance and they were accepted by the then  Speaker  who was a member of the Australian Labor Party. We had a list of speakers from our side and the Labor Party had a list of speakers from its side. The moment an honourable member from our side stood up to speak on the matter of public importance government business was brought on. No consideration was given to the Opposition. Today we at least did provide, and I say reasonably fairly, an opportunity for both sides of the chamber to be heard on the subject matter of the statement. That is fair comment. Even the honourable member for Port Adelaide would agree with that. But honourable members opposite chose not to grant us leave to make the statement. Let us be reasonable: They made that choice. I accept what the former Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition has said, that their reason for refusing leave to make the statement was that they did not want the making of that statement to occur during the time provided for the grievance debate. I accept that as fairly logical reasoning. But we happen to be the Government.  (Quorum formed).  I was trying to keep this debate on a calm basis before being interrupted by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  who obviously did not like what I was saying. 
To return to the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders that is before us, I suggest, as the Leader of the House has put forward, that this matter of the Prices Justification Tribunal should be dealt with as a matter of public importance next week. We will allow the Opposition to raise it as a matter of public importance if it wishes. We will welcome it. Perhaps we will raise the question as a matter of public importance ourselves and provide speakers in the debate. If that does not suit honourable members opposite then, as the Leader of the House has suggested, they have other opportunities to debate this matter. But for goodness sake, we have a program to implement. I say to honourable members opposite: Do not get carried away with the idea that in Opposition they are going to be able to dictate to the Government. If they have any illusions about that I ask them to ring up Freddy Daly, the former Leader of the House, and ask him how the House should be run. Get his idea on it. Nothing that we could do would exemplify that better. 
Question put- 
That the motion to suspend Standing Orders be agreed to. 
-In rising to join in the Budget debate tonight I would like to talk firstly about the housing industry. I believe that there is a source for the provision of untold continuing finance for a certain section in Australia, that is, the low-income earners whose housing is being funded at the present time by what are commonly known throughout Australia as terminating building societies. At the present time the terminating building societies borrow money from the Federal and State governments- they are mainly funded by the Federal Government- over 30 years at  4Vi  per cent or 5 per cent interest. That money is in turn loaned out over the same term- 30 years- at a marginally increased interest rate to cover expenses. The rate varies from State to State, but I think that it is between 6 per cent and 7 per cent. 
I am suggesting that we should be now planning to introduce indexation of interest rates in relation to those terminating societies. As an example I cite the situation of a person who joined such a society, say, 15 years ago and purchased a house. At that time inflation was reasonably under control, due to good government. At that stage such a person could borrow up to 90 per cent of the cost of a home. The price of a house then was $10,000 or$12,000-a maximum of $15,000. Such a person could borrow that money and pay it back at a nominal interest rate of 6 per cent. In many cases the repayments worked out at between $10 and $15 a week. Everybody in this chamber would be well aware that that sort of repayment is today regarded as a ridiculously low amount. I am suggesting that the interest rate on that type of finance could be increased on an indexed basis. For example, if after 5 years there were to be an increase from the base rate of, say, 6 per cent and the rate of interest were gradually to rise over the next 10 years to a maximum of the current rate of interest, which is at present 1 1 per cent, it would mean that the person in the case I have cited probably would be paying no more than approximately $18 to $20 a week to cover the higher interest rate. That would be still a reasonable amount of money to be paying out. 
What benefit would be derived from doing this? Firstly, it would allow the terminating building societies to borrow extra funds on the open market at the normal lending rates of interest and to relend that money. Because the people who had borrowed from the societies in years past were paying a higher rate of interest the societies would be able to counter the interest they were paying with the old loans and, together with the new loans, relend money at the initial rate of 5 per cent or 6 per cent. There would therefore be a continuing cycle of money being ploughed into the housing industry. 
Let me instance what would happen in my area. It is only one area in the whole of Australia in which this sort of thing could happen. It could be duplicated everywhere that there are terminating building societies. There are four or five different societies in Bendigo. Each of them would have at least 10 to 12 loan programs running at the same time. No. 1, which was the first one, probably started many years ago. The people who obtained 30-year loans under it are probably half-way through paying them back. I am not suggesting that they should be automatically pushed right up to an 1 1 per cent rate of interest. I believe that this would be wrong and that it would be an injustice. But indexation should come in. Even with those people it should start now so that by the time they get towards the end of their repayments they would be in turn paying a slightly higher interest rate that would be equal to the current rate on borrowings. 
When a person borrows money to buy his first home he usually borrows up to his neck to do so. That person cannot afford to be then paying a high interest rate. Over the years governments have, quite correctly, provided such funding through the co-operative or terminating societies. Incidentally, we on this side of the House have always tried to encourage home ownership. It is my firm belief that after 10 years the average borrower from these societies has his family well on the way and has met the early expenses of providing the furnishings and other amenities he may require for his home and that he then has to look forward in the remaining years only to paying off the balance of his initial debt. I believe that this is a fairly logical and simple scheme that will provide the housing industry in this country with a tremendous amount of ready money that will not cost the taxpayer or the government of the day anything. I notice that the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  is present. I am sure that he is taking it all in. It can be borrowed on the open market. It can be recirculated because the Government has loaned it initially for a 30 year term. 
This scheme is worth considering. It is something in which the Federal Government should be joined by the State governments. They should be studying this. I know there will probably be some bugs in the whole idea- there always arebut it provides scope not for thousands but millions and millions of dollars to be reborrowed and put back into the housing industry. What better area is there for a financial organisation to lend its money than in the area of first mortgages on houses? There is none. It is a gilt-edged, government-guaranteed loan. The money can be used over and over again. This is something we must look at. I will be pressing the Minister and the Government to look at it because it is one more area in which we can take a giant step forward and provide a continuous stream of funding to make sure that the housing industry provides not only the necessary work for the members of that industry but also housing for people in the income bracket that has a ceiling of $ 160 a week. There are many people in this category who cannot borrow money through permanent building societies because they cannot afford the interest rates and the repayments. They cannot qualify for a housing commission home because they earn too much money. This group comprises the majority of would-be home builders. They are the young people who have steady jobs and who are able and want to build and buy their own homes. We must do something for them. 
Another area that concerns me, and I am sure it concerns many others in this chamber, is Medibank. I have heard through the Press many criticisms from those opposite and their supporters of Medibank. It is said that the Government is destroying it. The critics always come up with the magnificent assertion that those in the lower income group will be subsidising and paying for those on the higher incomes. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the shadow Treasurer, would be expertly qualified to agree with me that the majority of the funding of Medibank will be from Consolidated Revenue. He knows that the person in the higher income tax bracket is paying a greater proportion to general revenue than the person in the lower income tax bracket. It does not take a mathematical genius to work that out. So it is not logical for those opposed to the alterations aimed at improving Medibank to say that the person in the lower income tax bracket, because he is paying the levy, is subsidising the person in the higher income tax bracket. I accept, and it must logically follow, that there has to be a point at which the Medibank levy cuts out. The person who earns an income above that ceiling is paying a greater amount of income tax towards the bulk revenue which will fund 75 per cent of the Medibank scheme. There is no argument on that. By allowing Medibank Private to come into operation we are allowing people like the eminent  Mr Hawke,  who was by his own admission - 
He is a man who was trying to stand for a seat in Victoria. By his own admission he was insuring his family through a private society but has now joined Medibank Private. So where is the argument from those opposite? Here is a man in that higher income tax bracket about which they are always talking- a despised person with a high income- who realises he can join Medibank Private and get all the health cover he needs. I cannot see what those opposite have to talk about. 
-Of course he is accepting the Government's Medibank scheme. He is acknowledging that we have improved Medibank. I am sure that even that very careful man, the shadow Treasurer, would agree that Medibank was never free. It may have provided a nocharge service, but it was never free because the taxpayer was paying for the total cost of Medibank. We have started to provide a system of commonsense management for the whole Medibank scheme. Nothing is taken away from Medibank. All the facilities for public hospital treatment have been retained. To them have been added, to those who want it and who can afford to pay extra, provision for private or intermediate hospital treatment. Do not make any error and say that those who can afford extra cover have some precious advantage over those who cannot, because they are also subsidising heavily those receiving public ward treatment. They are subsidising them through their contribution to the 75 per cent of funds coming from general revenue. The Government has looked at Medibank and improved it. It has taken no services away. In fact, it has made sure that every person in Australia has, in accordance with his ability to pay, the right to have hospital treatment or medical treatment. We will continue to improve this scheme. The Minister so obviously has shown an ability to listen to argument and to make adjustments as and when necessary. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government carried out a review of the student allowance scheme, or tertiary education assistance scheme, as it is known? If so, when will the results of this review be announced? 
MALCOLM FRASER- It was announced several weeks ago that the Government was carrying out such a review; that we would be getting a report from officials; that there were in fact a significant number of Commonwealth scholarship schemes or student assistance schemes, and that we wanted to see whether there was any possibility of rationalisation and simplification in an area that had grown in which one scheme was not necessarily related to another and which had become complex and difficult to understand. A report on these matters is currently before the Government. I should also like to pass an observation about an alleged strike which has been called for 30 September amongst students around Australia. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Is Macquarie House only SO per cent occupied. 
How many (a) single rooms, (b) double rooms, (c) rooms with an en suite and (d) fully self-contained flats are available at the hostel. 
What are the tariffs for the various types of accommodation. 
How many vacancies of each type are there at the present time. 
-My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will the Minister advise the House whether an invitation was extended to him to appear on  This Day Tonight  this week together with the Leader of the Opposition? If so, will he also advise the House why he did not appear on that program? 
-In rising to support the Bill I would like to go over one or two matters that were raised by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I must say that I thought that the honourable member presented some very good points and some very good arguments. The honourable member raised the question of what happens to vehicles which are taken away following a parking infringement. He said that the owner does not have any rights. But I think that the normal law would apply in this case. If, for instance, there is a residue on a vehicle that has been towed away the party who holds the residue would have a right of action against the party who has failed to pay in the normal way. Mention was made of the increase in fines. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said in his second reading speech that this Bill was designed to update amendments to the Act that was passed m 1960. 1 am sure that even the honourable member for Shortland would agree that the size of fines in all spheres of the law has increased considerably since 1960. One is likely to receive a substantial fine even if one happens to park one 's car over the time limit in a local council area. Such a fine might be for parking for only one hour, let alone for leaving one's car parked for several days. 
I would like to bring before the Minister for consideration the problems faced by country industries, or decentralised industries- whatever term one likes to use- in respect of their management and staff who use air transport facilities and who are forced to park their cars after driving a considerable distance to airports. For a start they suffer the penalty of having to travel some distance to reach an airport. We all know about the telephone costs that have to be borne by country people. They have an added cost in this respect because they are charged high rates to park their vehicles at airports. I suggest that perhaps the Government at some later date might consider making some small allowance to people from genuine industries in country areas who are forced to use the airways as part of their business. I make that suggestion just by way of a comment. I am sure that the Minister will look at my suggestion in due course. 
The honourable member for Shortland raised the point of utilisation of transport in parking areas. It is quite obvious to those of us who are forced to park our cars at airports that many people use airport parking bays for their own private reasons. They find that they can park for quite a reasonable charge. Quite often bars at Commonwealth airports are well frequented. Restaurants also may be well frequented. However, the people who patronise these places are taking up valuable parking bays and the people who really need the parking bays have in many cases to park well away from the airport. 
One could discuss many things in respect of this legislation. Quite obviously we could say that we should not increase any charges. But surely this Bill is warranted in view of the inflation that was caused over the last 3 years by the Government supported by the honourable member for Shortland and also the natural increase in inflation that has occurred over the last 16 years. Members on this side of the House realistically appraise the fact that this Bill is warranted and we support it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of decisions by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to reduce expenditure by $2m? Will this mean that a number of public affairs programs, including  State of the Nation, This Day Tonight, Four Corners  and  Monday Conference,  will be reduced? Will the Government be prepared to give sympathetic consideration to a request from the ABC for additional funds to cover cost increases? 
I took note of what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said and I thought that some of his comments- only some- were very sensible. But I think that he is totally out of order when he criticised this Government because it was the Leader of the House in his Government who took the greatest delight in telling us how many Bills Labor passed in one year- a record number of Bills- and did it without any regret. Simply, it wanted to say what a magnificent record it had. I agree,  Mr Speaker,  that there should be some consideration of this matter by the Parliament. I know that you have thoughts regarding this matter. We all have thoughts on it. We all agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  but there is no point in his or any other member's, blaming one party or another party for something that has been going on for years. I think he is trying to play trade politics and it does not become him. 
-I wish to reply to one or two comments made by previous speakers on the Opposition side. I think, in fairness, I must acknowledge the concern of and have some sympathy for the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  because, as he has correctly stated, we have a similar problem. He said that the textile industry in his electorate apparently suffered a greater problem before 1972 than after 1972. I have some figures that show the effects of the 25 per cent general tariff cut which took effect on 19 July 1973. In August 1 973 the number of people unemployed was 1.4 per cent of the work force. As a result of that 25 per cent tariff cut the number rose to 4.5 per cent in February 1975. The actual number of people unemployed rose from 81 000 to 292 000. 1 dare say that the honourable member for Corio was fortunate if the textile industry in his electorate was not part of that debacle. I assure him that my electorate and many other electorates were. 
While the Opposition acknowledges that there is an unemployment problem, it tends to overlook that the problem was created basically in the 3 years of Labor administration. What the figures tell is really not that far from the truth. The number of unemployed rose almost to the level at which it is now. It was only about a 0.2 per cent difference. As a result of that 25 per cent tariff cut many industries were forced to close. It is a strange thing but the Australian Labor Party has the very funny idea that an industry which is forced to close by action of a government can suddenly, for no reason at all, without further capital investment, after all that has been lost previously, reopen. It does not work that way. When the Labor Party in office forced many industries to close it created the real problem facing the manufacturing industry in this country. Industries which closed or which were forced to retrench and which lost immense profits because of the actions of the Labor Government cannot recover quickly. Many of the shareholder investors would not want to take the risk of such government attack again. As one of my colleagues said, our attempts to convert the awful situation that we inherited in 197S are somewhat akin to trying to stop the tide. The tide goes out, pauses, comes back. That is exactly what is happening. I believe that we have stopped the tide. We have achieved that. We have not increased the rate of inflation. We have slightly reduced it. We have taken steps to help industry. They will show up this coming year. 
I dispute the comments of the honourable member for Corio that there are no signs of recovery. I have spoken to representatives of many industries. They are quite happy with the way things are shaping. In a debate yesterday the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  commented that there was no improvement in industry. There is. Industry is starting to show the effects of the action which we have taken. It appreciates that when we came into office it at last saw the chance of being able to solve the awful problem which it was facing of going out of business. It is not easy to solve the problems that resulted from the tariff cuts and from the import quotas in the textile and footwear industries. It is not an easy thing to say that an industry should suddenly re-employ 200 000 people who have been thrust out of work. It is a matter of getting confidence back into the industry. That is what this Government is proposing to do. It is a matter of record that the number of unemployed in the manufacturing workforce at August 1973 was 1.2 per cent. The number rose to 4.8 per cent by November 1975. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  referred to the era of the former Labor Party Leader, Ben Chifley, who apparently set out the program and policy of the Labor Party to provide, above all things, the opportunity to create continued employment. I wonder whether the honourable member for Port Adelaide thought about that policy of  Mr Chifley  when, during the 3 years of Labor Government, the number of people unemployed rose from approximately 2 per cent to about  5lh  per cent, thereby creating an extra 200 000 people unemployed. Surely the Chifley principles went out the window when the desires of the previous Government to socialise this country were implemented. 
This Government has a real concern for industry. We have taken positive steps to create certain assistance for the whole of the Australian manufacturing and commercial area. We have introduced a stock valuation adjustment scheme which will offset the current attack of inflation on stock prices which, in turn, will mean that business houses, manufacturers or commercial retailers will have the opportunity to bring their stock into valuation at the appropriate time and at a real and correct figure. This, in turn, will mean added profits to companies. This, in turn, will mean that companies will have the opportunity to invest, the incentive to increase production and to provide opportunities for jobs. It is all part of the plan, and it will all work. 
We introduced tax indexation. It will really start to bite with the increases in wages during this year. As the wage level rises to a certain taxation level the work force, the people receiving wages, will find that they have more money in their pockets. This will give them the opportunity to spend that money. The spending of that money in the private sector will mean that there will again be a demand for goods which, in turn, will mean increased productivity. At least we hope it will mean increased productivity. Unlike the previous Government, which tried to divert everything to the public sector, we are trying to boost the private sector. Demand for goods means increased jobs. Let me quote what the  President  of the Labor Party, Bob Hawke, said on his return from Japan. He said that the Japanese employee is in a much better position in relation to benefits and conditions than his Australian counterpart. Bob Hawke conveniently forgot to mention one simple little thing. The Japanese rate of productivity is much higher than ours. That is one reason that Japanese employees are able to get those better conditions. It is a simple matter of logic that if productivity is increased the benefits flow not only to the manufacturer and the shareholder, but also to the employee. Not only do the benefits flow to the employee, but also there are a greater incentive and a greater demand which result in a need for more employees. 
The member for Port Adelaide commented about the lack of jobs. He named a company in Sydney, I think it was, that was planning to sack a number of people. Let him check out the various metropolitan newspapers any weekend he likes, and he will see the number of jobs advertised for skilled tradesmen. I understand that at present an inquiry is being carried out by the Premier of Victoria into a claim that a firm in Melbourne was looking for 300 employees but could not get one. Why is that happening? I believe that one of the major problems is a lack of skilled tradesmen. We are certainly getting a surplus of academics and unskilled workers. That is regrettable. Our Government has taken steps to help untrained youths to gain training through the apprenticeship scheme which we have introduced. We have provided a rebate to allow apprentices to attend full time training. Under the National Employment and Training scheme we have provided the opportunity for young people to be employed while learning an occupation, rather than paying them to attend a school, as they were under the previous Government. We have introduced a youth employment training scheme which provides a subsidy to employers to encourage them to employ the youth of the country. These are only 3 steps designed to assist the young people and I am sure many more will follow. 
This Government has taken positive steps to assist the young and to assist not only manufacturing industries but also all industry in this country because we believe that if we can make industry profitable and effective we will overcome the unemployment situation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In view of reports that the Capital Territory Health Commission has no powers to control the establishment and conduct of free standing abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory, what action can the Minister take to ensure that the activities of such clinics are subject to public scrutiny? 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 3,I shall move: 
That a full inquiry be undertaken into the use of trade union funds for political elections and that such inquiry should inquire into: 
.  The circumstances of contributions made by the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union to the Australian Labor Party campaign for the 1 972 elections; 
whether an opportunity is given to each individual unionist to decide whether he or she desires that part of his or her union fee shall go to a particular political Party; 
how many unionists covered by unions registered in the Federal jurisdiction have been able to avail themselves of this right, and 
has this right been brought to the notice of each individual unionist. 
-I should like to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker. 
-I apologise,  Mr Speaker.  Would you accept that now? 
Yes,  Mr Speaker. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I refer to a comment made this morning in an Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast. I have to speak on this matter because it affects me as well as others. Comment was made in the broadcast that in the Liberal Party-National 
Country Party coalition party room back benchers put forward a suggestion that they would oppose increment increases in pensions. That is entirely untrue. Obviously we were the Government that brought in automatic increases in pensions. I refute the statement. It is casting aspersions on all members of this Party. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The statement is related to me personally. I am a back bencher of this Party. The statement implies that all back benchers were involved. I take that as a slight on myself. The matter was not discussed. Also, there was a comment that some back benchers indicated that they would cross the floor. That was not said either. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I refer the Minister to the proposed purchase by the Government of lands adjacent to the Puckapunyal army camp. Can the Minister advise the House whether a decision has yet been reached in respect of this acquisition? If a decision has not yet been reached, can he advise when a decision can be expected? Is he aware of the serious plight of many of the farmers and land holders in the area who are anxiously awaiting a decision? 
-In entering this debate I do not intend to get into a discussion on or make very many comments about aid to developing countries. I wish to talk about another facet altogether of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. Before making my remarks on that matter I must try to correct one of the points made by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  which I am sure he made in serious good faith. He asked why cattle that were being destroyed were not sent overseas as aid. I realise that the honourable member comes from the city and he is unaware of the real situation. The cattle that were destroyed- I think he was referring to those in Victoria- were destroyed simply because they were absolutely useless. Had we given them to people overseas it is most doubtful that they would have survived one or two days on a ship. They were not suitable for use as meat. They had poor condition. They were destroyed purely because of the poor economic situation facing the cattle industry as well as the added problems of drought. That was the main reason for that situation. I hope the honourable member will look at what he said and perhaps in future do a little investigation to make sure he is in possession of the facts. 
The matter of sending cattle overseas was taken up by members of the Government side. They were not concerned about the cattle that were being destroyed because they were of no use in feeding people but more importantly about cattle that could be used to feed people. Two things stood out that would make this a non-viable proposition and certainly hardly one of economic worth, even though there would have been some worth in the fact that we would have been funding the project. The first factor was that the cost of shipping cattle, even if they were given free, would have made it prohibitive to give the cattle to other countries. Secondly, we would have had to get over the problem that unions would not have loaded the ships. They would have prevented the shipping of cattle from this country. 
Another thing I always notice about members of the Opposition is that when they talk about world powers and the way they are not doing enough of one thing or another they refer to only one country, the United States of America. It is a remarkable thing that they do not bother to do a little homework and check on the country to which they seem to lean a little, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which has a very poor record in the field of foreign aid. That country is also heavily involved in the arms race. I hope that when the honourable member for Banks makes statements in future he has the decency to mention a couple of countries instead of picking on one, which is his wont. 
In speaking to the Bill, I point out to honourable members that it is for the repeal of the Australian Development Assistance Agency, but it does not mean that its work has suddenly come to a dead halt, that it is finished and that everything closes down, as members of the Opposition seem to be trying to put across. That is not true. What is in fact happening is that the Agency's activities will now be carried on by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau under the control of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Members of the Opposition might well say that this is an incorrect move; that it is a backward step. Let us look at other countries, as the honourable member for Banks and others are wont to do. Certainly one country of note has a separate agency, and that is Canada. The United 
States operates its aid agency under the State Department. In France and Japan there is no single authority. In the Netherlands it come under the Foreign Affairs Department. I am sure honourable members opposite would support the view that the Netherlands is supposed to have very liberated views on these types of things and has a very progressive attitude to aid to developing countries. 
We are really talking about restructuring the Agency under the control of the Department of Foreign Affairs, but surely the most important point is the effectiveness of whatever transpires out of this move. Contrary to what the Opposition keeps saying, there is no reason to believe that the new organisation will be less effective. Under the Foreign Affairs Department it should be more effective. I know that is the belief of the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock). 
What does the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, as it will now be called, do in this country? Many people are unaware of its actions. One aspect of its operations is the care and service it provides to visiting students from Asian countries now staying in this country to advance their studies. The Bureau provides assistance to the sponsored students in various matters relating to their education, training and welfare. It guides them in all aspects of the Australian way of life, and helps them with queries in relation to health, taxation and other matters. It assists in relation to marriage guidance, setting up seminars and social functions where the students can meet and mix with Australian people. These are some of its activities to assist the sponsored student. Similarly, it co-operates with service organisations throughout the country in organising various functions for private students visiting Australia. 
These are some of the things that the Australian Development Assistance Agency has been doing since its inception. There is no sign that this service will wither on the vine. This serviceI believe it is a very important one- is an aid in the real sense of the word. It is to continue. If any honourable member wishes to check with the Department I am sure that the Department would be happy to invite him along sometime to join in some of the activities going on. This is an opportunity for us, not only the members of this Parliament but also Australian citizens, to meet students from other countries, learn something of their way of life and at the same time help them, not so much with their studies here, which obviously they will do themselves, but more importantly with meeting the people of this country. 
The Opposition talks about the wiping out of the Agency and the tragedy of it. If we consider what the Bureau under the Department of Foreign Affairs will achieve and the service it will provide to students visiting this country, we will see that it is a worthy organisation to continue under the control of the Department. There is not doubt in my mind that the Bureau will carry out more effectively the work previously carried out by the Agency. If there has been some cutback in staff through the reorganisation, there has certainly been no sign of a loss of effectiveness. I support the action of the Government in introducing this Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I preface my question by drawing the attention of the Minister to the constant calls in the past to introduce into this country a trade union movement or a system similar to that which operates in West Germany. Is the Minister aware that in West Germany 75 per cent of the members of a union must vote in favour of any industrial action before such action can be taken? Will the Minister indicate to the House whether such excellent legislation could be introduced into this country? 
-We are debating the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1977 and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill 1977. 1 wish to address my remarks mainly to the Tertiary Education Commission Bill whose purpose is to introduce a new commission to the Australian education scene. The Tertiary Education Commission will replace the 3 existing commissions and have overriding control over the whole post-school sector of education. I think that all honourable members on both sides of the House and indeed those people in the community interested in education will welcome this move, bearing in mind that the 3 existing commissions will be continued in the form of councils to advise the Tertiary Education Commission. It should be borne in mind also that the chairmen of the 3 councils- I refer to the 3 councils, as they will be known, involved in the areas of universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education- will be full-time members of the new Commission. 
The obvious benefits that will occur will be seen, firstly, in the technical and further education area. Many people have been concerned that that area has been somewhat the underdog as regards government payments and grants. However, it has been developing in the education field, and I shall return to that point in a moment because I wish to express some reservations about what is happening there as well as welcoming the changes or the advancements that have occurred. 
No doubt there are many members of Parliament and certainly many members of the public who, while working on or being a representative on councils of various colleges, universities and so on, have very often been frustrated by what appears to be a preference by governments for one sector or another of education at different times. In other words, there has been an apparent non-agreement between the 3 commissions in regard to what is best for education in the whole post-school sector. The Commission which will now be formed will obviously have the power to take control of those situations and will help to bring to the whole spectrum of education a greater degree of liaison and planning. 
A balance must be reached in all areas of education. The amalgamation of the 3 existing commissions into one new commission should help to achieve that balance. 
I have noted that in his second reading speech the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  refers to 3 main reasons why the establishment of the Tertiary Education Commission represents a major advance on the present system. He says that the area of technical and further education will be included as part and parcel of the Commission. I have mentioned that point before, and I come back to it now. If one looks at the Budget figures- not just the last Budget but many previous budgets- one finds that technical and further education certainly did not receive anywhere near the allocation of government resources as did the other 2 sectors of education, namely, universities and colleges of advanced education. Of course, that is understandable if one is talking of colleges of advanced education which are attended by what one would call daytime or regular students. But one must bear in mind that many more students and people are involved in technical and further education. I believe that, on the basis of the number of students attending the various institutions, the allocation of moneys is not in proportion. 
But I urge caution here in that we must not go overboard and decide that technical and further education is the be-all and end-all. I trust that when the new Commission is established the 3 full-time members, in conjunction with the  Chairman  of the Commission and the 5 parttime members, will exercise a great deal of care and caution in developing the field of technical and further education in a balanced way. We all want to see the technical and further education area developed. We want to see it receive a fair proportion of the funds that are available for distribution for education. However, it is most important that the situation is not seen in the wrong perspective. In other words, we do not want an over-balance in correcting the imbalance that has existed in the past. 
As a person representing a rural or country area, or more particularly what one would call a regional area, I am concerned about what will be the make-up of the 5 part-time members of the Commission. A recent meeting of the principals of regional colleges of advanced education- a regional college is established in an area where no other form of tertiary education is available; in other words, the college of advanced education is the only form of tertiary education available in that area- expressed concern about this matter, and that concern has been relayed to those of us who represent such areas. The concern expressed was that there could be an inbalance of representation unless great care is exercised by the Government in the appointment of the part-time members not only to the Tertiary Education Commission itself but also to the 3 councils. There is concern that there should be representation for those regional areas in which there is only one type of tertiary education institution, whether it be a university or a college of advanced education. 
I mention this matter as being one of great magnitude as regards colleges of advanced education. For too long those colleges, particularly the ones located in regional areas, as I mentioned, have seen their efforts being overridden by what could be described in all of our politics as the metropolitan base or the power base. I hope that those honourable members who represent metropolitan areas agree with me when I say that because of the voting strength they hold the metropolitan areas in the various capital cities throughout the nation are the power bases for the Government, the Opposition and, indeed, just about every other organisation in this country. We need to display fairness and balance to ensure that the less densely populated areas have equal representation in the field of education. I trust that the Government will take this matter into consideration when appointing the part-time members to these bodies. 
I believe that there has to be regional representation, irrespective of how little that representation is. I suggest that at least one of the 5 part-time members on the Tertiary Education Commission should represent the regional areas so that there is an input of what is required, and what action ought to be taken in support of the regional areas. As a member of the council of the college of advanced education in my area, too many times I have had to struggle to ensure that the funds that have been allocated to the college have been spent in the proper way in the areas to which they were directed. There has always been the tendency on the part of the powers that be to divert funds back into the metropolitan area if there is the slightest chance of a hold-up occurring in the completion of a contract or because of any other reason. I strongly oppose that kind of action. I believe that it is time that we as a government, as a responsible body, should ensure that the weaker side or the lesser side in the education scene covered by this Bill- I am talking about the regional areas- are thoroughly represented. 
I wanted to say only those few words on this matter because I regard it as being very important, as I am sure do many other honourable members who are associated with education, particularly in the regional areas. In concluding my remarks I mention that I have written to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on this subject. I trust that he will take note of what I have said. I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table and who in this debate is representing the Minister for Education, will also take note of it and will take some positive steps to see that what I have suggested is put into operation. 
-First of all I would like to congratulate the Ministers concerned for being able to come to arrangements with New Zealand to alter the apparel arrangements that exist under the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. Those of us who represent electorates which contain textile industries are very appreciative of the actions that have so far been taken that will afford some protection to Australian made goods and Australian manufacturers. Despite the comments in the second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  that the facility to ship goods from New Zealand to Australia had been little used recently, it has become increasingly obvious that the facility is being used to ship goods through New Zealand to Australia. Those of us who have anything to do with the textile industry in any way know that this has been doing on. I have a number of textile firms in my electorate. I have noticed that the textile industry has been suffering because goods were coming through New Zealand which were not New Zealand made. We will certainly be appreciative if the legislation before the House limits this practice. 
I am sure that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who is at the table, will make certain that further measures will be taken in the field of quotas to afford a fair share of the Australian market to Australian manufacturers. When it is all boiled down the manufacturing industry, particularly the textile industry, employs a greater number of women than any other industry. Unless the textile industry is protected and given a fair share of the market we will not succeed in overcoming the over all problem of bringing down the rate of unemployment. 
In supporting the Bill I congratulate the Ministers concerned. I want to express my appreciation on behalf of textile manufacturers, particularly those in the woollen blanket area. It is rather a sad and strange thing that this industry, which produces possibly the best woollen blankets in the world, is unable to sell its product in Australia because of imports from New Zealand which are not necessarily manufactured in that country. I believe that the same thing applies to carpets and footwear. The Government is to be congratulated for having taken very wise and prompt action. 
Can the Treasurer advise the House of the current position in regard to the proposed acquisition of lands adjacent to the Puckapunyal Army camp? 
Can the Minister for Health advise the House at what rate the Commonwealth Government is funding women's refuges in the States under the community health program? Further, is there any intention of transferring his responsibility for women's refuges to the Department of Social Security? 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether his attention has been drawn to the high level of industrial disputes occurring in the building industry in Melbourne at present. If so, can he advise whether these disputes are part of a national campaign within the building industry? Is the Minister aware that these constant, selective strikes, particularly by crane operators, have resulted in a production level as low as 30 per cent on several major jobs and could well result in employers being forced to go outside the guidelines of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? 
The Prime Minister will be aware that seasons and markets make primary producers' incomes variable. Tax averaging was introduced to overcome uneven tax liability in the rural sector. Will the Prime Minister advise the House how primary producers under tax averaging provisions will be affected by the new Budget tax scales? 
Tonight we have listened to the most dastardly smear campaign from the Opposition that we have heard for a long while. We have heard reference to a  This Day Tonight  interview with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The interviewer asked him: 
Are there going to be more victims in the loans affair? 
The Leader of the Opposition replied: 
No. He tried to get some victims and he did, of course.  Mr and Mrs Connor  died earlier than he would have- 
No doubt he meant to say 'they would have '- because of this persecution based on an opinion he gave intemperately and injudiciously. 
I think that is the most disgusting statement I have heard in my life. 
There has been an attack on the Press Secretary of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser). I should like to read a letter that the Press Secretary to the Prime Minister addressed to the  Hon.  R. J. Ellicott, Q.C., M.P., dated 6 September 1977. The letter stated: 
I would like to make my part in the events of 16 August clear. 

 Mr Waterford of the  Canberra Times  rang me on 15 August and put to me in considerable detail a story that he had gleaned from sources he did not disclose. He said that he had Been shown documents, told that you had threatened to resign, and told also that the Prime Minister wished to see the case against  Mr Whitlam, Dr Cairns,  the late  Mr Connor  and  Mr Justice  Murphy pursued. 
Since this was incorrect, I asked for, and received, authority to guide  Mr Waterford. 
I did so on this one matter only, his misapprehension about the role of the Prime Minister. I told him it was the Prime Minister's view that these matters should not be prosecuted and that they were resolved in the elections of 1975. 
I informed  Mr Dickie  of the position at the first opportunity, consistent with my practice of keeping counterparts in the picture whenever stories develop affecting their Ministers. I did not 'supply motivation' to  Mr Waterford  and my action in relation to your office was completely open. 
Let us cast our minds back to when this Opposition was in government. Let us look at a few initials- the Bs and the Cs. Let us start off with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  He was sacked from his position. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  was sacked from his position as Treasurer. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr Cairns)  was sacked from his position as Treasurer; he did not even get to introduce a Budget. The late honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  was sacked from his portfolio just to carry the penalty for a Prime Minister of the day who was not game to face up to his responsibilities. Let us consider a former  Speaker,  the former honourable member for Sydney,  Mr Cope,  who was sacked as part of the most disgraceful conduct I think we have ever witnessed in this House. Yet honourable members on that side of the House have the gall to criticise a man who had the courage of his convictions and resigned. 
Yes, we shall not forget the honourable member for Hindmarsh. He got the bullet also. One thing to the credit of honourable members on this side of the House is that when we were in opposition we did not start a dirty smear campaign against those people who were sacked.  Hansard  can prove that. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

Honourable members opposite do not have the necessary intestinal fortitude to stand up like men and say these things outside. They use the forum of this House to protect- 
-Rising to speak on the new nursing homes benefits brings back memories because it was on this particular subject that I made my maiden speech in 1 973. This is a matter that has been of concern to most honourable members, certainly back bench honourable members. One way or another we all know of the problem facing the aged in nursing homes in our electorates. An area that has not and does not come under the jurisdiction of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  but which is associated with the matter under debate, is that of the homes or boarding houses which accommodate aged persons who cannot obtain admission into official nursing homes, either private or government. This area worries me and, no doubt, worries other honourable members. 
There are a number of these homes or boarding houses around. There are a number of them in my electorate and, no doubt, in the electorates of other honourable members. Generally I have found these places to offer a fairly high standard of care. As the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  has said, the people who operate these establishments are not doing so out of love and charity only; they are doing it for business purposes. That is as it is, but without that business these particular aged people would not have a shelter. This is just one of the facts of life which we have to face. I do not know what can be done in this area. Perhaps the Minister could look at it at some future time to see whether these people can obtain some supplementary cover to assist them. They still have to pay the costs but they do not receive assistance from any government source because they are not in an officially accepted nursing home. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong raised the problem of adjustments to charges; the charges go up as costs push them up. But of course, the Government sets the charges. It has always appeared to me to be something of an anomaly that not only under this Government but also under previous governments- no doubt since such a scheme was initiated- the Government should set the charges but then should have to wait for months upon the processes of Parliament before it can set the Government's contribution to match the increases in charges which it has authorised. It appears to me that the Minister, the Department and the Government- in fact, all of us- should be looking for some way of shortening that time gap. 
I do not know whether some form of indexation could be applied to this. I am not even trying to formulate a solution. But I am sure that honourable members would agree that this is an annoying differential. One could understand this situation if the cost factor pushed up charges outside the control of the Government, as in other situations, and the Government then had to face up to meeting those increased charges. But it seems to me to be a bit odd that when the Government sets the charges we have to wait, in many cases several months, before we get an increase in the supplementary allowance to offset those increased charges. That is an area of concern. 
The Minister in his second reading speech referred mainly to non-government nursing homes. Of course, the charges and benefits will apply to government homes as well. I wish to draw the Minister's attention to a couple of matters raised by the management of the Bendigo Home and Hospital for the Aged, which is a State government authorised official home. Their concern has been that it appears that the Federal Government is suggesting that State government homes will be forced into line with nongovernment homes and be required to charge the full amount of $46.90 per patient per week, which would leave a pensioner, provided he got a rent allowance, with something like $5.20 a week. 
The Minister might care to clarify that matter because I have received advice that the State governments are still free to provide a supplement to relieve this charge on the patient. In other words, the pensioner is not required to pay the $46.90 a week in a State government home. I was under the impression that this applied particularly in Victoria and that, in fact, the Victorian Government in the past has provided a share of the funding. Perhaps the Minister will tell us whether this practice, which allows people in those homes to retain a greater proportion of their income, will be continued. 
Another point which the Minister might like to explain relates to a request which will be made from 1 October for a detailed information sheet on every patient to be supplied each month. The mind boggles at the paper work this will require. Consider a home with something like 600, 700, 800, or possibly 1,200 patients being required each month to fill in reams of paper. The Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission and the Victorian office of the Federal Department of Health have passed this information on to the hospitals concerned. 
From discussions I have had since receiving this information, it is my impression that this is not quite correct, and that in fact it is intended that a form will be provided which will sort the patients into various categories and enable them to be listed in a more comprehensive manner, so that this almost mind-boggling requirement to fill in all those forms will be eased. One must not lose sight of the fact that if the staff of a hospital has to fill in a form someone has to receive that form. Knowing Public Service departments, not one person but a multitude of persons have to view such forms. 
I should be very concerned if such an operation were to be brought in by this Government. Perhaps, in the interests of efficiency, the Minister will have this looked at and will ensure that, whatever happens, the State governments or government institutions and, perhaps, nongovernment institutions, will have less need for alarm about this particular matter. Thus is a matter of concern to them. I believe that now is the time for the Minister to clarify the situation. I believe it is only a case of lack of communication in explaining what has happened. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong used the term 'health police'. Knowing him as 1 do, I am certain that he did not mean to use the term in the sense in which it came across. I feel there was some merit in the thought behind his use of the term, but let us hope that the people in the Press gallery do not take up that term because woe betide him if we find the Press talking about his use of the term 'health police'. Certainly I hope he does not mean that there should be a health police force. Honourable members opposite do have a tendency to talk in terms of system, groups, controls and secret police. We know that is the way they think; we understand and accept that. But they should try to keep that concept out of the area of health. I give the honourable member for Maribyrnong enough credit to think that he did not really mean to use that term. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong referred also to the needy having to pay. I find that difficult to understand on reading the Minister's second reading speech concerning the new benefits. It appears to me that what the Government is doing is this: Take the case of those people who can afford to take out, and have taken out, private health insurance or Medibank Private- let us put them all together. They are paying into such funds, but they receive no benefit from them in respect of nursing home charges. They, through the health insurance funds to which they belong, and the funds themselves, will now provide the necessary money. So I cannot see how the needy are going to be paying for this. In fact, I think the reverse is the case. What is going to happen is that the health insurance funds are going to be paying a lot of money into the hospitals, thus relieving the Government. That in turn will relieve the taxpayer, which in turn will relieve the needy. That then will allow money to be used elsewhere. 
As I see the situation, the scheme being introduced is to provide assistance to those who cannot afford health services, those who normally are in receipt of health benefits, or pensioners who pay nothing whatever. The Government will be picking up the tab for them by means of a benefit. Likewise, the health benefit organisations- the private funds, as honourable members opposite like to refer to them- together with Medibank Private will be picking up the tab of those people who have elected to pay and are in fact paying towards hospital benefits now. The Bill does not provide for an extra service because those people in fact are paying that money now and have been paying it. But the hospital at which they are treated has not been able to receive payment which rightfully the health benefit organisations should pay. 
So, all in all, this new concept of nursing home benefits must surely be a step forward in the health care field. However, I agree with the honourable member for Maribyrnong when he said that it does not necessarily mean a step forward in the standard of health care. The Bill is related to funding. It is a fact of life that we have to worry about funding. We as a Government as well as the people and the patients have to worry about paying, irrespective of what it is for. Even the famous free health service with which the honourable member for. Maribyrnong had some part when he was in government really had to be paid for. It was never free. I hope that is not his argument. 
-I can well recall on those odd days when the government of which the honourable member was a member was on this side of the chamber his colleagues claimed that it was a free health service. It definitely was not a free health service. Nothing is ever free. It is a fact also that those things that are worthwhile having always seem to cost quite a lot to obtain. By providing this assisted benefit the Government is adopting the proper approach to overcoming this awful problem of giving assistance to those who are forced to live in nursing homes. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
I oppose the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition. I would like perhaps to get away from the type of discussion that has taken place in this debate. Members from both sides of the House say that the arguments they are putting forward are right and other arguments are wrong. I believe that these arguments have been well canvassed. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon),  who has just spoken, pointed out that not many nuclear power stations are operating in the world today. I believe that I could put another argument on that subject. Before doing so, I think it is rather interesting to consider the wrangle or argument that is going on within the Australian trade union movement as to whether it will move, transport or mine uranium for export. It is not a question of whether uranium will be exported or whether it will be sold; it is a matter of whether the trade union movement will assist. It is interesting to note the resolution on nuclear energy adopted by the English Trade Union Congress on 8 September at its annual congress at Blackpool, England. 
-Obviously they have a lot more sense over there. 
Well, they sent all those types of steward out here, I understand. That Congress supports the balanced development of the country's energy resources including coal, gas and nuclear power. The resolution of the Congress lists a number of objectives that should be observed. I will not read them all because I have asked for permission to have this paper incorporated in  Hansard.  However, I would like to read the important section. Section (11) states: 
To maximise the contribution of an expanded and socially acceptable nuclear program which is consistent with the maintenance of a safe environment in terms of solving problems of health and security which may arise. 
The first thing that the Opposition will say is: 'Of course, that is what we are saying; we want a healthy and safe environment'. But nuclear reactor power stations have been a fact of life in England since 19S4. Before proceeding further I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the Trade Union Congress resolution on nuclear energy. 
-Recently I visited England, accompanied by my very good friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  to attend a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference. Part of our tour of duty was an inspection of a number of industrial sites. We visited the Hartlepool nuclear reactor power station in the north of England. I would imagine that this power station would not be more than three-quarters of the size of this building we are in now. I think that is a fair assessment of its size. It will produce about 1,200 megawatts of electrical power. That is approximately 6 per cent of the total electrical power produced m this country. Australia produces 20,000 megawatts of electricity through its various types of power stations. This one nuclear power station, with 2 reactors, will produce 1 ,200 megawatts of electricity. The station is situated on the Tees Estuary. It is 6.4 kilometres south of the town of Hartlepool and 8 kilometres north-east of Teeside, another highly residential and industrial area in the County of Cleveland. Virtually all of that County is taken up by industry and housing for the people who work in industry. 
Honestly, I do not think that honourable members on the Opposition side have a real conviction that nuclear power stations are a risk or a danger. Surely they give the English people a little credit. Surely they acknowledge that there are people over there with brains, people who think. The people in England have studied this matter and have called upon the best advice offering not only in their own country but throughout the world. We were informed about this station. They wanted to make sure that the operation of a nuclear power station would be safe. They have no fear about building this supposedly formidable enemy of the people right near the town, no fear whatsoever. That is a point of which many people in this country are totally unaware. England, a country with a population of about 54 million and an area of land less than the size of Victoria, has 21 nuclear power stations in operation at present and is planning to build many more. 
-It has 21 stations at the moment. Incidentally, the Opposition will be pleased to know that the English still have industrial troubles. They started building the power station at Hartlepool in 1968 and it is not yet finished. It is expected to be in operation next year. This station will add to the existing system of nuclear power stations and I say for the benefit of the honourable member for Sydney- it will produce 3 per cent of the total power for England. The English people know, the trade unionists know, the English Government knows that despite all the oil that may be found in the North Sea a serious energy shortage will be experienced in the next six or seven years if these nuclear power stations are not available. 
What will the Opposition do? Will it admit that it helped in providing that shortage because it would not sell Australia's uranium? The Opposition has adopted a silly attitude. This country is in a nuclear age whether we like it or not. We cannot put our heads in the sand and say 'Outside Australia you can have a nuclear age but it will not happen in this country.' We do not have nuclear power. We do not need it. But we have an element that is required by countries which are in desperate need of energy. Those countries have explored this matter and have developed the knowledge to make sure that uranium is safe to handle. Let us be honest about this matter. Those countries would not have done so if they believed there was that risk. Members of the Opposition know it and I know it. 
The Opposition is taking a political attitude. That is unfortunate but it is true. When it was in office it signed contracts to sell uranium. The fact that it has lost office suddenly makes uranium a dangerous material to handle. I wonder why. This is an impossible situation. Unfortunately people in this country who have every right to be concerned about the environment- people in this country have freedom to do so- are being led on, unfortunately, by some of the people that the Opposition represents in this Parliament. The Opposition is using this debate on uranium for political means. I am sorry to have to say that but it is a fact. 
Throughout the world today there are more than a dozen countries which have nuclear power stations. I can read out the names of those countries but I do not think it is necessary. Collectively those stations are producing 86,650 megawatts of power at the present time. That is four times more power than Australia is producing. It is being produced in countries such as Switzerland, United States of America, the United Kingdom, Japan, West Germany, Sweden, France, Spam, Belgium, Canada, Argentina, Bulgaria and so on- and let us not forget Russia. It is a funny thing that honourable members on the Opposition side have not often admitted that the communist countries have nuclear power. They do have nuclear power. In fact they probably were the first to develop it. Under construction throughout the world today there is a number of these power stations that will produce a further 160,193 megawatts. The reactors on order for jobs not yet under construction will produce another 153,691 megawatts. When all these nuclear power stations are completed in the next few years they will be producing 400,000 megawatts of electricity. Yet we hear honourable members on the Opposition side saying that if we do not sell uranium this process will stop. There are plans on the boards to increase the present number of nuclear reactors fourfold. Let us be honest. This is happening. 
-I will come to that matter in a moment. The honourable member for Lang should be patient. I know that he is an impatient man by nature. I mentioned that Australia's power plants were producing 20,000 megawatts of electricity. Authoritarian countries and communist countries do not allow their people to tell the government that it is not to go ahead with some project. In those countries the trade unions do not stop stuff being shipped. This country, and every other country of a democratic nature, has political opponents causing opposition to the selling of uranium and the use or nuclear power stations. The development of countries where this is being tried is being retarded. In the authoritarian countries and communist countries these programs are going ahead full bore. The Opposition knows it. It is another fact of life. It is going to happen whether we like it or not. They are going to want uranium. I wonder what the Opposition would do if it were in government and the communist countries wanted to buy our uranium. I would like to know what it would do. It certainly would not refuse them; that is for sure. 
The real problem facing democracy today is whether we can create a society that will live m a nuclear power world. We are going to see a nuclear power world. It is going to happen. Whilst we know that through our democratic processes we give our people the right to reject decisions, and that might well happen in some areas, we know that the authoritarian countries, the communist countries and the dictatorships are going to go ahead. They are not going to wait to be told whether they can do it or not. 
The Opposition has talked about the problem of risk. A report produced by the Canadian Atomic Energy Commission stated quite clearly that the risk of 1,000 people being killed by an accident with a nuclear reactor is about one-ten thousandth of the risk of that number of people being killed as a result of the failure of a dam or a reservoir. How often do we hear of a dam or a reservoir failing? Just imagine how remote is the chance of that happening. Much has been said about the problem of nuclear waste but let us look at the real facts. If Australia's total power requirements from this day to the year 2000 was produced by nuclear reactors- that is 20,000 megawatts a year from now to the year 2000- the resultant high level solid waste, the stuff that everybody is so terribly frightened of, could be contained in a room measuring 50 feet square by 16 feet high. So, how much waste are we talking about? 
-If the honourable member wants to talk about tonnes, a 1 ,000 megawatt unit turns out approximately 2.3 cubic feet of waste per year. The world is expected to be producing 400,000 megawatts of energy by means of nuclear power stations when they are operating at full bore and that will result in only 1,000 cubic feet of waste a year. Let us be practical about it. It would fit inside this room and yet honourable members opposite are worrying about whether the world has enough scientific knowledge to ensure that the waste is safe. It is about time that the people started to look outside the boundaries of Australia to find out what is happening in the nuclear world and what has been happening since 1954. People say to me: What about an alternative source of energy?' That is fine. We already have solar energy. Solar energy research has been going on for some time and it will continue because this Government has made a commitment that some of the proceeds from the sale of uranium will be channelled into solar energy research. Surely that is what the people want. We know and experts in other countries know that the energy produced from uranium will not last forever and alternative sources of energy are being planned now. But for the next 20 to 50 years there will be a heavy requirement for energy and this requirement can only be met by nuclear power. This Government is taking a positive step towards ensuring that we play our part in the development and functioning of the nuclear world in which we live today. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, before entering into a debate on this matter of public importance I draw your attention to the comments made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  last night during the adjournment debate. He highlighted the problem facing the Parliament at the moment in relation to matters of public importance. Today the Party concerned has introduced yet another matter of non-public importance. The matter was so well supported and considered to be of such a magnitude of importance that we find five members of the Australian Labor Party in the House to listen to the debate. I think the comments of the honourable member for Mackellar are very apt and should be considered by the Chair.  (Quorum formed).  It is a pity that the Labor Party has to call a quorum when a matter of public importance introduced by one of its members is being discussed. That indicates the interest of members of the Labor Party in the business at hand. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  calls for the revealing of the source of funds and suggests a ceiling on funds and so on. He, like other members of the Australian Labor Party, has the fond idea that money buys everything and that money wins everything. The honourable members overlook the important factor facing the people of Australia which is that they have the right to vote on performance. That is why we are in government and that is why we will stay here. The honourable member stood and for nearly the whole 1 5 minutes of his speech he talked about what is happening in the United States. He forgets a very important factor. Voting is not compulsory over there. There is no comparison with the system operating in this country. 
I shall answer why we will not introduce the type of system which he is looking for. The Liberal and National Country Parties believe in freedom in Australia. That freedom means freedom for people to vote as they wish without fear of penalty or sanction. But the Labor Party proposals would deny that freedom. They would deny to people the right privately to support the party of their choice. People would be looking over their shoulders to ascertain who had money and who had donated to which party. I can imagine what would happen on the shop floor when it was known that a member of a trade union had made a donation to the Liberal Party. He would probably be banned from work. The union would probably impose a black ban. It would mean nothing but political persecution of the worst order. 
We have listened to the honourable member for Port Adelaide talk about the great idea he has for divulging funds and talk about what we should do now. What happened during the three years the Labor Party was in office? Why did it not bring up this subject then? Why did it not divulge all the secrets? What about all the funds from the Khemlani loans affair? Let us hear what the Labor Party was going to do with that $4,000m. Then, a little later on, we had the breakfast at Tiffany's show. Let us talk about that. I know the honourable member for Port Adelaide was hopeful that I would introduce the subject because it further highlights the deficiencies of his temporary leader. 
On 4 May 1976 a notice of motion was introduced by the honourable member for Mackellar. When addressing himself to it during a later debate he was so harrassed by honourable members opposite who did not want to hear the truth that the debate was effectively gagged. But the truth came out. A statement was signed by a  Mr Fischer  of Sydney which quite clearly indicated the events which occurred back in December 1975, which occurred after the 
Whitlam Government was dismissed from office and events which involved  Mr Hartley,  that elegant left wing member of the Labor Party. The events did not involve Bob Hawke, the  President  of the Labor Party but that lefty trendy  Mr Hartley  who associated with the Arabs and who decided, with  Mr David  Combe, that it would be a good idea to arrange a little sneaky loan, something of the order of $2m. This loan was to come from the Arab nation of Iraq. It was then organised for representatives of that country to meet the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and discuss exactly what was required. The Leader of the Opposition arranged a meeting through the agency of  Mr Fischer  and letters from  Mr Hartley  and  Mr Combe.  So the Leader of the Opposition was to meet delegates from Iraq on a Tuesday. 
-We have a signed statement. It has been published. I know why the honourable member who interjected wants to know that. He wants to refresh everybody's mind how true it is because, after all, he was turfed out of office by his leader who was really responsible for this matter. So do not let us have any false ideas as to why this matter of public importance has been introduced. It has been introduced simply to tip yet another bucket over the Leader of the Opposition. I am sorry that I have to be the bearer of the sad tidings. But let us go back to those eventful couple of days. A meeting was arranged with the Leader of the Opposition for breakfast at 8 o'clock where a large white package was handed over to the Leader of the Opposition in front of witnesses by the Iraqi representatives. Nobody from the Labor Party has yet disclosed what was in the white package. The Labor Party claims that it never received the funds. Perhaps it ought to run an audit on where the money went or what happened to it. But the deal was made on the basis that the Labor Party, in return for this service, would in the future follow a more even-handed policy towards the Arab nations. The Labor Party also agreed to accede to a request from the Iraqi Government to divulge special information about what was going on in the Middle East between the United States, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Jordan. The Labor Party was also asked to give an assurance that  Mr Hawke  would not become Leader of an Australian Labor Party government. 
What a deal to enter into! No wonder  Mr Hawke  was not asked to attend that breakfast. The money, $2m, was raised- I do not think the honourable member for Port Adelaide was around at the time- for the specific purpose of running an election campaign. Yet the honourable member has the hide and audacity to stand in the House and talk about the rights and wrongs of raising funds from some corporations. If there were any truth in what he is sayingthere is not a shadow of truth in it-at least they would be Australian companies which would be involved in Australian political parties. We should not forget that in 1 972 a number of Australian corporations provided funds for the Labor Party which would not want that information disclosed. Mind you, those corporations also gave something to the Liberal Party. But the Labor Party would not want to be in that situation.  Mr Whitlam,  the present Leader of the Opposition, at the time of receiving this white envelope at that notorious breakfast, went on to say: 
I want to thank you very much for this generous help, but I am afraid that due to election pressures I must now leave because I have an appointment with the television station and I am only sorry that I cannot talk to you more. If only you could have stayed in Australia I could have talked to you longer but I must go. I sincerely hope to see you in Baghdad . . . 
I do not know whether he was going there on a magic carpet, or how he was going there; the message does not go on to explain. But we do have this complete signed statement. Honourable members opposite might want it to be included in  Hansard.  I seek leave,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to incorporate this statement in  Hansard.  I am sure that the honourable member for Port Adelaide or one of the other gentlemen on the other side of the House will agree to that incorporation. 
-The Loan Bill 1977, which is before the House tonight, is a usual Bill - I think that is the best way to describe it. It is a Bill of a type which has been introduced by governments for many many years. It does not, as the former  Speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  claimed, represent an ad hoc process. The comments being made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and others in regard to interest rates have nothing whatsoever to do with this Bill. The Prime Minister quite correctly has forecast that the proper economic measures taken by this Government will eventually lead to a downturn in interest rates. This has nothing to do with this Bill or the fact that a loan is being put forward in which the public can invest. 
The Government is drawing on this loan to enable it to borrow for defence purposes. As I have mentioned, other governments have done this in the past. But, by the same token, this measure does not authorise any additional defence expenditure. There has been legislation for this purpose in the legislative programs of successive governments. Honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Corio, know quite well that their Government undertook exactly the same procedures. There is very little to say about this Bill except to say that it is a machinery-type Bill. It has to go through the Parliament. It will go through. I merely rise to support the Bill. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Transport concerns the level of financial assistance to be made available by Victoria for expenditure on rural local roads this financial year. Has the Minister yet undertaken the discussions with the Victorian Minister of Transport,  Mr Rafferty,  since announcing he was withholding approval for all Victorian road funding programs because the level of funding proposed by Victoria for rural local roads represented a six per cent decrease in funds compared with those of the previous year? Is the Minister yet in a position to approve the programs submitted by the Victorian Minister? Will Victorian local government receive a better deal as a result of the Commonwealth's determination to ensure that more funds go to local roads? 
-There has been some comment and criticism recently by way of advertisement in some forms of the media of the Fraser Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for excessive travel. I think the situation is worth reviewing when we talk about excessive travel. I have some relative figures in regard to the Fraser, McMahon and Whitlam governments. In the first 530 days of the Whitlam Government, eight Labor Ministers were overseas for more than the 5 1 days that has been spent overseas during the equivalent period by the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser. 
-I can talk louder than the honourable member for Melbourne.  Mr Whitlam  was away for 86 days in his first 530 days. At the end of the first 17 1/2 months of government, members of the Fraser Ministry have made 54 visits totalling 584 days. Ministers of the Whitlam Government had 71 trips totalling 1,053 days.  (Quorum formed).  If Labor members stay for the one and half minutes that I have left I will tell them more about the overseas trips of their Ministers, the way the Whitlams went overseas so many times in a very short period. As at 17 February 1975 Prime Minister Whitlam - 
-Hello! Here comes the little man. 
-I said 'the Whitlam Government'. If that offends, I will say 'the previous Government'. Under the previous Government the former Prime Minister had completed his eleventh trip overseas in two years. This was at 17 February. He had spent 130 days out of Australia, with only 143 days of sitting. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-In respect of the-  (Quorum formed).  I thank the honourable member for Hunter for his kindness in making sure that there is a suitable audience to hear the speech that I am going to make. I assure the honourable member that the compliment will be returned to him in due course. I particularly wish to refer to the estimates for the Department of Productivity. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  and his Department for producing this booklet entitled  The Productivity Connection.  I think it is worth while quoting from the foreword of this booklet because it says: 
There has long been a need for a textbook which examines the influence of productivity on economic well-being. In this book,  Dr Norman  demonstrates that making better use of our resources of men, machines, material and money is the best and perhaps the only way to improvement of overall living standards. 
Our Minister has been endeavouring to do this and I am sure he will achieve it. I understand also that this textbook will be used in the training of apprentices. It will be used in their training program.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  could you call a halt to the other conversations that are taking place? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is too much audible conversation in the chamber. I cannot hear what the honourable member for Bendigo is saying. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  We have very important matters before us. I was referring to this textbook entitled  The Productivity Connection.  It is a vital piece of literature and it will be used to great benefit in apprenticeship training in the future. The area within the estimates of the Department of Productivity which concerns me most is the work undertaken by the ordnance factories, particularly the ordnance factory in my electorate of Bendigo. One of the things that has greatly troubled us over the last few months has been the future of apprentices employed by the ordnance factory in Bendigo. In the past it has been the practice at the factory to employ perhaps a few more apprentices than was normally required but the standard of training has been such that people trained there have been quickly snapped up for employment by other organisations. 
-Of course. The honourable member for Hunter is quite right. We recognise the high standard of training at the ordnance factory at Bendigo. We have always supported it and I thank the honourable member for Hunter for his interjection. The Minister has given me an assurance that the ordnance factory at Bendigo will continue to employ the same number of apprentices that it has in the past and that they will be trained to the utmost of the expertise available there. 
The future of the ordnance factory itself is of vital importance, particularly following three years of Labor Government. During that time the employees there were suffering as a result of the amount of work available. During the time of the Labor Government we had a Minister who brought tanks overseas and who was not a bit interested in getting any of that equipment manufactured here. As distinct from that attitude, the present Government is prepared to look at the possibility of manufacturing items at our own ordnance factories, using the expertise we have and ensuring that this expertise will continue. In co-operation with the Food Machinery Corporation of the United States of America, we have the opportunity of providing the 5 inch/54 gun mounts for the Navy. These will be installed on HMAS  Swan  and HMAS  Torrens  when they are refitted. Even though these gun mounts will be manufactured in the United States they will provide 58,000 hours of work for the Bendigo ordnance factory. I believe that this is a tremendous opportunity. It shows what this Government is prepared to do in the way of production. It is one way of making sure that our ordnance factories continue to operate. 
During the war years ordnance factories throughout Australia reached a very high level of expertise but our high quality tradesmen have gradually slipped away, through age and other reasons. When the Labor Party was in government we lost contracts and therefore we had no opportunity of providing younger people with the training that they needed. Under the present government I hope and believe that every reasonable opportunity will be granted to the ordnance factory to join with the Food Machinery Corporation in manufacturing these gun mounts. The initial work, that magnificent 58,000 hours of work, is not the major factor to be considered; we have to consider the long term program. Associated with the future manufacture of these mark 45 guns for the Navy is a proposal that work loads of approximately 70,000 hours per mount would be provided, equivalent to 35,000 hours per year, from about 1985 onwards. This would guarantee the future of ordnance factories, particularly the factory in the Bendigo electorate. 
-Of course it is. The overhaul of the 5 inch gun mounts for the Navy is being proposed and this would provide a further 35,000 hours per mount every two years from 1985 onwards. We will find that we will be starting to increase opportunities for employment at the Bendigo ordnance factory because of the positive attitude taken by this Government towards the ordnance factories in this country. In the future we cannot allow ourselves to be placed in the position where we are not manufacturing. All honourable members are aware that the Leopard tanks purchased by the previous Government were purchased on the basis that they would be manufactured in West Germany. The gun mounts are to come from England and some other parts are to come from France. Nothing is coming from within this country. At that time the Australian Government had no backbone, no gumption. It did nothing to make sure that we had at least the opportunity to learn and to study so that we would be able to produce the gun turrets. At least we could have done that. We can produce all the gun barrels that the Navy requires. We can produce the turrets. We overhaul most of them now. 
There is no way known that we do not have the facilities. All we need is the authority from the Government, and this Government will give every opportunity to the ordnance factory either to take on the contract as the initial contractor or to work in conjunction with the Food Machinery Corporation of America. If the ordnance factory gains the contract it will not only provide the 5-inch gun mounts for our own Navy but also have the opportunity to carry out contracts in conjunction with FMC, which is the biggest supplier to the United States Navy, and to supply material and carry out work for the United States Navy. This would be a breakthrough. It is something that we need in Australia to make sure that our expertise in providing defence force mechanisms and defence force supplies does not slip. This is something that the previous Government failed to do. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In speaking in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Department of Construction, I mention first the positive move taken by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  in introducing a proposal to provide funds for the setting up of a decentralisation advisory board. This decentralisation advisory board will be funded by $6.07m allocated in the 1977 Budget for new decentralisation initiatives. This is the first positive step taken for a number of years by any government in the federal sphere to support decentralisation. At last there is something apart from lip service to this very important area. Honourable members will recall that a number of members of this Committee, particularly the National Country Party representation, have sought over the years to try to involve the Federal Government in some form of decentralisation assistance. I can only applaud the efforts of the Minister in introducing finally this new initiativeit may be a token gesture but at least is a start- in the field of decentralisation. 
As I understand it, an advisory board will be set up to which various municipalities in the various areas of decentralisation will be able to put submissions for consideration for a share of the funds already provided. The purpose of the board will be to provide assistance on a capital basis for tertiary and secondary industries. As it is early days yet, there is not much more to say about that particular subject except to point out that it is a start. I hope the Federal Government goes from strength to strength in this area. During the term of the previous Government there was an attempt to set up centres away from the metropolitan areas of the capital cities, namely Albury-Wodonga and some other areas, but the Labor Government tended to look just at individual centres instead of looking at the overall concept that there are major towns and cities that are well worth assistance by some form of decentralisation. It is to be hoped that this will be extended. Certainly a lot more money will be required but at least it is a positive start and I am certain that the people of Australia, particularly those in country towns and cities, will applaud this effort. I understand that a number of submissions have been forwarded to the Minister already and I know that he will take particular note of those from my electorate. 
I also extend my thanks to the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  for taking another positive step, that is, to ensure that regional contractors have the opportunity to tender and have their tenders accepted for government contracts. I refer particularly to the instance earlier this year where Telecom Australia decided to set up three mail centres in the Victorian regional areas of Bendigo, Seymour and Sale. Originally the tenders were to go to metropolitan builders as a package deal. I took up this matter with the Minister and pointed out to him the need to show the decentralised attitude by giving an opportunity to country builders who are fully capable of building these structures. The Minister investigated the matter and, as a result, country builders had the opportunity to tender. A building firm of sound repute in Bendigo obtained one of these contracts and has proven to the Department of Construction that it has built the project far more efficiently and faster than its Melbourne counterpart. This is the type of action the Government is taking to ensure that the Australian community in regional areas as well as in metropolitan areas can be involved. The Minister for Construction is to be congratulated for his efforts. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Chairman - 

 - Mr Chairman, I think my friend, the Opposition Whip, is going to be dirty. 
Thank you,  Mr Whip.  I will remember this.  (Quorum formed). 
-In the very short time I have left in this debate on the estimates for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Department of Construction, thanks to my friend the Opposition Whip, I wish to draw attention to the home ownership scheme that was announced by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I congratulate him for introducing this scheme, one that I suggested to him some two years ago, whereby funds are provided to States to enable young people wishing to purchase their own home to obtain loans at a low rate of interest but an increasing rate of approximately half of one per cent a year until it comes up to the standard bond rate. This will provide additional funds which the Minister has agreed should be recirculated in the housing industry. It will provide millions of dollars over the years to assist people in the purchase of their homes. It is interesting to note that when the Opposition Whip was the Minister for Housing he tried to insist in the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement that the States should spend the money on the construction of rental housing, being a typical Labor politician who does not believe in the policy of home ownership. 
We know it is true because it is a fact of life. 
-We have just heard the usual tirade from the poor dear honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  There is a cliche that goes something like: 'You are judged by the company you keep. If you keep talking scandal you obviously are scandalous yourself. I think it fits pretty well.  (Quorum formed).  Once again the Labor Party has decided to seek to prevent me from speaking. Members of the Labor Party know what happened last time they took this action. Perhaps that could happen again tonight. They can blame the honourable member for Chifley for whatever happens following my contribution to the debate. 
I return to the estimates debate before the Committee. First, I mention a matter that gravely affects the Australian industries in country areas. I refer to telephone charges, a subject which the Labor Party never bothered to study or even think about while it was in Government. 
-As honourable members will recall, and as my colleague says, the Labor Party put up the telephone charges. One of the problems facing industries in country areas is the extremely high cost of telephone services. The high cost results for the simple reason that a business in a country or regional area to make contact with a metropolitan area must use the subscriber trunk dialling system or make a trunk line call. These calls attract a charge at a much higher rate than the standard urban charge of 9c a call of unlimited duration. The Government Members Committee on Communications and Administrative Services of which I am a member has requested on a number of occasions that Telecom Australia provide it with information as to the costs involved and the revenue which would be raised through the introduction of a system- not the STD system- by which subscribers were charged on a time consumed basis for each telephone call. After all, at present, the STD system works against country people only. A person in business in the metropolitan area who makes telephone calls within that area faces lower charges for those telephone calls than does a businessman in a country area who makes calls to a metropolitan area. 
I dare say that any honourable member representing a rural electorate would be able to quote information on telephone costs that must be met by a number of companies in his electorate. A company with 100 employees is quite a reasonably sized business to have in one's area. Such a company pays from $50,000 to $70,000 a year in telephone charges. This is a tremendous burden. One of the worst features of these costs is that such a high level of charges is a great deterrent to people setting up business in country areas. That Committee has asked for information. We have not received that information that we require. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is at the table, will no doubt as he always does quote what I say and make sure that his Department provides our Committee with the information that it seeks. 
It is our firm conviction that there is a basis for charging a standard telephone call rate throughout the country on the basis of time consumed. Let us not get carried away with this idea. People who live in towns and cities in the country are charged 9c for each local call. They, together with metropolitan citizens, would be charged on a time basis under the system proposed. I know that the Minister and all his friends, when they ring their friends and talk for hours, are charged the standard fee of 9c for each call. But we in the country areas must dial STD for many such calls. This costs us a fortune. Let us take the case of members of Parliament. If there were a standard charge for each telephone call, the cost to the Government of our use of telephone services would be cut. We need a system by which telephone calls are charged for on a duration basis. It is about time that the Minister's Department decided to have a serious look at this matter instead of coming back with the constant old answers that it always gives, as it did under Labor. In fact, I do not know that it did this under Labor; under Labor it did nothing. It says to us: 'If you have a standard telephone charge for each call on a time used basis, what you will do is push up the cost of each local call in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane or Surfers Paradise to 50c or 60c a call'. That is a lot of rot. We are talking about introducing a new system for charging so that everybody pays a penalty if he or she talks too long. I am sure the Minister will appreciate that there are people who talk too long- 
. . . like the honourable member from Newcastle, who talks too long on whatever he rises to discuss. 
-It is not quite time yet, Charlie. I will keep going. This, quite seriously, is a matter for grave concern. The introduction of this system by the Government would show that it really supported the rural sector-not only the farmers and the many rural business people but also those industries which are trying to set up business outside metropolitan areas. We are trying to provide them with a service which will encourage them to leave the smog-ridden cities and come out to the fresh country air where plenty of good labour which does not go on strike all the time is available. Businesses will not move to country areas because telephone charges are so great. Out of all expenses, telephone charges are the greatest deterrent to industry. 
Some people in country areas have decided that they make use of telex facilities. This is all very well, but Telecom, not to be deterred or defeated, has imposed such a high rental that it is impossible for an average business to introduce a telex service. I suggest to the Minister that, if his Department provides telex services free of charge, industries in the country will use them and will be able to increase their business, increase employment and increase service to the general area. If the Department cannot see its way clear to provide telex services free of charge, what about a lower rate of rental? The Government should have a serious look at this matter. By taking action, the Government will show that it is prepared to do something for the rural sector. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  has brought in a decentralisation scheme. Let us see the Minister for Post and Telecommunications join in this thrust and make his contribution to decentralisation. Let us see the Minister take some positive action. We know that he is capable of it. We know that he will override his Department. We know that he will stand up and be counted in the Cabinet room. We know that he will say to Ministers in that little sanctum: Gentleman, we need standard telephone charges'. We know that the Minister will take this action. We know that he is out to support the development of rural areas in this country. 
I will mention quickly one other matter in the couple of minutes that I have left. I know that the Minister is determined to protect private enterprise. That is a policy of this Government. 
In pursuing that policy, I know that the Minister will insist that television station BCV8 at Bendigo will get a translator station at Seymour. The television station is prepared to buy the translator. It will not cost this Government one red cent. But no! The Department is saying: 'Let us have a look at it. Let us see whether we can push it towards metropolitan Melbourne'. We do not want Melbourne stations broadcasting in Seymour. In such a case, we would get programs from only one channel whereas BCV8 shows programs from the whole range shown on Melbourne commercial channels. It provides the best possible choice. If the Minister intends to show some sympathy towards country industries and to give some protection to the country television stations, he will support the Seymour translator station. One of my friends from the National Country Party has said that he will try to do something for rural Queensland also. But I emphasise the need for the Seymour translator station. I thank you very much. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Speaker.  It relates to the honourable member for Tangney. I ask: Did  Dr Peter  Richardson, the member for Tangney, notify you that he had resigned from the Liberal Party? How many days has he been absent from the House this year? How many speeches has he made? How many questions has he asked? How many divisions did he fail to attend? Is it a fact that he attended the House for only a few minutes - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

Because the proceedings are being broadcast, and having listened to the outburst from the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  I think it is only fair and correct to say on behalf of both the Government and the Opposition that we are well  aware- (Quorum formed).  The honourable member for Mackellar had a lot to say about the standards being thrown out. He tore up a copy of the television broadcasting standards as a gesture to show that the proposed Bill is throwing out the standards. 
He claimed that honourable members were not sufficiently interested to listen to his amendments. The reason why some honourable members did not bother to stay to listen to his amendments was simply that he had not bothered to study the Bill before he came into the chamber. He wrote his amendments without considering the fact that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal will be operating under the same standards as before. Those standards which the honourable member wishes to guard so jealously will operate until there is a new Act, at which time the honourable member will not be here but other honourable members will have the opportunity of altering the standards. 
The honourable member, in his usual way, assumes that everybody except him is wrong. He accused honourable members of not being interested, and again he is totally wrong. Honourable members on this side of the chamber are interested and the Government has taken action by this very Bill to protect the standards about which the honourable member was talking. So the Government will have no option but to throw out the amendments because they are not wanted, they are not required and they are useless. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Defence, concerns the future of the Army Survey Regiment located in Bendigo. Can the Minister dispel the constant rumours that the Fortuna Regiment is to be moved from Bendigo? 
-Last night during the adjournment debate two honourable members opposite spoke on two topics to which I wish to refer. The first matter was that of security, which was mentioned by both the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  I can appreciate their concern at the fact that some form of security is being implemented at the Parliament because they might be prevented from entering this building at some stage. Let us look at the real situation. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports said that honourable members on this side of the House might be concerned that they could be shot or blown up. He was obviously assuming that nobody would bother to do that to honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Wills said that there are enough attendants working in the building for us not to have to worry about security. Both honourable members completely overlooked the fact that the staff working in this building are just as important and need just as much security as honourable members. 
I remind those two honourable gentlemen that it was not the members of the conference visiting the Hilton Hotel who suffered; it was the staff of the hotel or people carrying out work in the precincts of the hotel who suffered as a result of the stupid act that occurred at that time. Such an incident could well happen here. If we take some measures to show that we are concerned, I think the Government, and I hope the majority of members of the Opposition, would be seen to be acting in a sensible manner by at least acknowledging that we are not, as the honourable member for Wills likes to mention, still living in an atmosphere which was relevant 20 years ago. It is 1978 and, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said and as many other people have said, Australia has now unfortunately entered an era in which terrorism is rearing its ugly head. 
Another matter that was raised last night concerned parliamentary procedures and the lack of opportunity for debate. That is a matter of circumstance from which I am sure all of us have unfortunately suffered. It is one of the facts of life in this Parliament that we tend to try to put through too much legislation in the short amount of time available to us. But that has occurred not only under the administration of this Government. Let me refer honourable members to the time when Fred Daly was the Leader of the House. He boasted openly that he had put through more Bills in any one year than had any other government. Of course, that was the case. He gagged every debate. As soon as a member of the Opposition- we were in opposition on that occasion- tried to speak on a piece of legislation he was gagged. 
Now the honourable member for Wills is making some lame duck complaint because I happened to gag him. Let me just explain the reason he was gagged yesterday. Because of the time that was available and because of an agreement made between the Whip of his Party and myself, only a limited number of speakers from each side were to take part in the debate. The Opposition Whip always tries to keep to such agreements because he is an honourable member of this Parliament. The agreement was made in the best interests of those who wished to speak. Three Opposition members had the opportunity to speak in the time which was normally allocated to one  speaker.  The arrangement was made by courtesy of the Opposition Whip, and I was happy to accept this. Now we have the honourable member for Wills, who is one of the rebel back benchers, making abusive remarks about me. 
The honourable member for Wills is unfortunately in a geriatric situation. We on this side of the House will be sorry to see him being forced to leave the Parliament in the next few months in order to make way for his old arch enemy Bob Hawke. We know it is on; we have been told. We have received confidential information. I was sorry to hear it, because despite the way in which he attacks me, I rather like the benign old geriatric. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask you to extend my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  on his election to his very important and high office and also to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election to the almost equally important position of  Chairman  of Committees. I suppport the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply and reject out of hand the amendment put forward by the Opposition. However, before moving to the subject I had prepared for tonight I must make one short comment to take up the suggestion of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  in the dying moments of his speech that we should go to the people. I seem to remember that we went to the people in December, much to the annoyance of the Opposition which said that we were going too early. We had been in government for two years and the people had had a chance to look at us after we had received a record majority in 1975. What was the result? We had a win which was almost as great as our previous win. I am sure that the honourable member for Melbourne, like many of his colleagues, is on a self-destruct course. They want us to go to the people so that they can lose more seats. We will not oblige them just yet. We will let them wait three years and then see how they go, 
I turn now to the Budget Papers and to the Governor-General's Speech. In last year's Budget Papers an interesting study showed a startling trend in expenditure over the past 10 years. I am not in any way saying that the trend is incorrect but merely pointing out the trend that has occurred. Table 2 of statement No. 6 reveals certain interesting trends during the period 1967-68 to 1976-77. In 1967-68, 17.1 per cent of total expenditure was provided for defence. In 1976-77 this was reduced by 50 per cent to 8.8 per cent of total expenditure. The decline has occurred not in any one year but steadily over the full 10-year period. In 1967-68 education expenditure was 2.8 per cent of total expenditure and this increased over that period to 9 per cent. Expenditure on health increased from 5.8 per cent to 10.5 per cent, and in 1975-76 under the Hayden Budget peaked at 13.5 per cent. The real acceleration in growth was in social security expenditure which rose from 16.7 per cent in 1967-68 to a mammoth 26.7 per cent in 1976-77. Nobody denies that these are areas of need. It is just a question of how far a government can go in expending the public purse. Expenditure this year on social security should reach 27.2 per cent. Expenditure on education, health and social security- only three items in the Budget- totals 47 per cent, nearly 50 per cent, of total expenditure. The people of Australia must be made aware of what is happening, of where we are going, of the trends and of what the Government intends doing in these areas. 
Let us look at these areas in money terms instead of percentage terms. Total Budget expenditure in 1967-68 was $6,225m. I dare say that the Treasurer of the day thought that that was an extremely large amount of money. In 1977-78 it will cost the taxpayer $26,656m, more than a 400 per cent increase in a 10-year period. Those in government must ask how long the drain on our national resources can be maintained in order to keep up the astronomical increase in expenditure. Expenditure on education has risen from $172m in 1967-68 to $2,37 lm this year and expenditure on health from $360m to $2,8 14m and expenditure on social security from $ 1,039m to $7,248m. These expenditures no doubt are necessary because these are areas of need- there is no denial of that- but obviously if they receive almost 50 per cent of total expenditure other areas must suffer, including defence, transport, roads, communication, water supply, electricity supply and national development. We cannot spend more than 100c in any dollar. It is not possible. Who then pays the bill? Taxation pays the bill. Who provides the taxation? The taxpayer provides it and it is important that he be made aware of where this money goes. 
I am sure that taxpayers would agree that this Government- I go back to the results of the 1 975 election- has shown some concern for how money is expended. The people have shown that they want proper management. They want a government that can handle the expenditure which is necessary to cover the items of need I have mentioned. They want to be sure that this country progresses while they receive, as we have been able to grant, a reduction in taxation. That shows management skill, something which was seriously lacking in the three years of socialism. Interest costs to be borne by the taxpayer this financial year are estimated at $ 1,727 m as against $476m in 1967-68. Even though the taxpayer carries the burden, through good management and good government we have been able to provide a cut in taxation and the people's recognition of that was reflected in the polls. Greater public demand for expenditure in the welfare state, coupled with more demands for lower taxation- in other words, spend more but give me more- is not the way of this country. No responsible government or people in the world can survive with that doctrine. We had three years of it, then threw it out. We have chosen responsible government instead. 
We are proving that we are responsible and as a result there is a sense of national responsibility emerging throughout the country. People have woken up after three years of socialism. We told the people all this two years ago in 1975 and they supported us. We told them again in 1 977 and on that occasion were able to show them the results of our actions. What did they do? They put us back in office. There is no doubt that the people feel that we are the proper parties to be in government. 
-As my colleague, the honourable member for Fadden, says- he is almost a Country Party member now, or at least a member representing a country electorate- we had proper policies. Budgetary control and responsible management are as much a part of government as they are a part of any business organisation. A prosperous business is only as good as its own self-control and management. That applies also to government. No more or less does living within one's means apply equally to government, the home owner, the family man or the individual. 
It is significant to look at savings bank deposits. Criticism comes from the Opposition benches about the state of this nation's economy and about the poor state of the people who are suffering under this Government, but savings bank deposits were able to increase from $15,706m in 1976 to $17,109m in 1977, an increase of 8.9 per cent. If people are not receiving good incomes, if they are not making a good living, if they are not able to live under the state of the economy they cannot put money away in savings banks. So that makes a lie of the bulk of the arguments put forward by the Opposition. Certainly we know that there are people in areas of need. There always were and there always will be. They are the people whom this Government has also taken action to assist. 
I believe that at this time those people who are placing their money in savings banks must also start to show their acceptance of the responsibility of this Government and start to spend some of that money, because we need spending. We need stimulation of our own industries, imported goods, manufactured goods and the retail industry in this country. The way to do that is for people to spend, to circulate the money. That will create extra opportunities in industry and will therefore create extra employment opportunities. It is no less the responsibility of unions. I am not union bashing when I say that everybody- government, unions, working men and employers- must take a proper share in the responsibilities of making this country go. We have set up the management system. We have set up the basis of good economy. Now it is up to everybody else, including the unions, to pull their weight. I see my friend the honourable member for Melbourne agreeing with me entirely, as he usually does. 
I turn now to the subject of telephones, a subject dear to the hearts of many honourable members who represent country electorates, such as my friend and honourable member for Fadden who can be heard supporting me. I want to talk about the almost annual topic of standard telephone charges. Back in the days of the Postmaster-General's Department, honourable members on this side of the House used to ask when we were going to get standard telephone charges. Then the Australian Telecommunications Commission was set up and we were assured that things would be changing for the better. There have been some remarkably good changes, but rural industries and rural people are paying a much higher rate for telephone services, as well as paying an enormous amount extra to have a telephone installed if they happen to live more than a few yards from the nearest telephone pole. 
That is absolute discrimination. It is about time we had some facts from Telecom. The parliamentary committee of which I have been a member for the last two or three years has constantly asked Telecom to provide it with facts as to how much extra income it would receive if telephones worked on a payasyoutalk basis. Let us not talk in fancy language. I am referring to a pay-as-you-talk system. A person in a country area pays for a Subscriber Trunk Dialling call if he is phoning someone 15 to 20 miles away, just outside the radius limit but not outside his STD area. In my electorate a person can telephone from Bendigo to Kilmore by dialling direct, but is immediately on the STD rate. If the call lasts more than the prescribed time the charge goes above 9c and it goes up each unit registration for the length of the call. A person living at Sunshine can talk to somebody at Frankston or Dandenong on the other side of Melbourne for about 9c and talk all day. If that is not discrimination against a section of the community, I do not know what it is. 
I am loth to bring up the subject but I notice that Telecom has been spending an immense amount of money on advertising its services. That is good. Obviously it wants to increase its income by talking about service. But what about first of all providing that service in areas where it is badly needed and what about spending money in those areas? I refer to another matter that concerns people in country areas, and that is the actual installation of a telephone. In many of the reports that have come out from Telecom, in recent months, I have noticed that mention is made of the average installation period being four weeks. That is not telling a he. It is the truth. But of course it applies to the almost daily installations that take place for people who are fortunate enough- or unfortunate enough- to live in the metropolitan area, as opposed to the nine months to 15 months' delay, advice of which is given in writing by Telecom, suffered by people who happen to live in country areas and just outside the main town in any country area. In towns and cities in the country one finds many cases of delays of three to four months. 
The committee approached Telecom to find out why this situation had developed, what was the problem, and why could telephones not be installed. Telecom came back and said that it does not have the equipment. If it is not an inadequate supply of cable, the next excuse is that it does not have the diggers. I cannot for the life of me imagine that a digger used for laying cable would cost more than one of those television programs showing a golf exhibition in Melbourne. I am a fan of golf but I would much rather see that money spent on providing Bendigo with two or three extra diggers and all the cable needed. Then we might be able to say to the people: 'If you want telephones you can have them. You will increase the revenue for Telecom and everybody will be happy. ' 
-I am sure that plenty of other people will pay for the golf. The golf has always gone on whether it has been paid for by Telecom or not. We have to set our priorities in order. I can understand the concern of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  who represents a Melbourne electorate. After all, it will be his constituents who will complain the moment we talk about standard telephone charges and he is one of the people who will have to stand up in this House and be counted on this issue. We will wait and see what happens. Many people, even those in country areas, overlook the fact that a standard telephone charge operating on the STD system of pay-as-you-talk would apply equally to country areas as to metropolitan areas. That would mean that not only could my friend from La Trobe and his wife talk on the telephone all day for 9c, as no doubt they occasionally do, but also my wife could talk on the telephone around Bendigo for the same charge. If we bring in standard charges, everybody has to be prepared to carry the burden. 
We have asked Telecom to show us how much it will cost to install the necessary equipment. We have received all sorts of figures, ranging from $40m up to $200m. It depends on which day one asks. We have received all sorts of reasons why, if any system other than the one we have now is brought in, the cost of making an ordinary local call would rise to about three times its present cost. It does not appear to me that a great deal of real research has been done into this problem. We have never yet been able to tie Telecom down to what are the facts. We want to know what exactly is the cost, exactly what can be done, how long it will take and how much extra money will be needed to provide a system of standard telephone charges. I am sure that it can be done. There is no problem at all. If necessary we will get the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  to buy another computer. 
This is a matter of grave concern, not only in the metropolitan area. Business people who have elected to move out of the metropolitan areas and to set up factories in the country have found to their annoyance and alarm when they go into the cost of running a business, as any competent firm would do, that whilst their transport costs may be less, and usually subsidised by the State government, telephone charges increase astronomically, in many cases to thousands of dollars. This is a crushing amount to have to carry for a business that intends to transfer. The reason businesses want to transfer to country areas is logical. They find that by setting up in the country they receive a certain amount of decentralisation assistance in Victoria and they have the added advantage of fairly stable employment from their employees. This means that the factory tends to be more profitable and in turn it provides jobs in the country areas. We want them. They are afraid to go because of this great burden of telephone charges that they have to carry. 
-I think it was the honourable member for La Trobe who just interjected. I have heard his speeches and they are never pepped up. They are probably the worst I have ever heard. In the few moments remaining to me I want to refer to aged persons homes. I am concerned about the amount of the nursing home benefit which is currently provided. The situation at the moment is totally out of kilter and needs to be looked at by the Government. To my knowledge it is a problem which has never been faced up to by any government. I refer to the differential between the grant received by registered nursing homes and the fees set by the Government of the day to be charged to the patients. What normally happens is that the fee is set. But that fee has to be increased because of added cost pressures such as labour and other costs. I suppose it is quite right that they have to put up the fees. When such increases take place they are usually quite substantial, because we all know the rate at which labour costs increase. Following that we immediately find that the Government grant has not increased. 
When the charges which these registered nursing homes legitimately impose are increased, the amount of the grant should be increased also so that no great hardship is placed on many of the aged persons who reside in these homes and on their families who at present have to carry the burden of supplying the differential between the two amounts. I am not suggesting that the differential should be totally wiped out at present. I understand the economic situation. We have to wait and gradually wear it down. Successive governments are increasing the amount of that differential because of the time lag between the grant being provided and the charges being increased. So it is time we as a government directed our attention to that problem and did something positive about it, just as we should do something about requesting Telecom to levy standard telephone charges throughout this country to the betterment of all, including the honourable member for La Trobe. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the lambing percentages in several States will be affected seriously by the severe drought conditions presently prevailing? Can he advise whether any action is proposed by the Government in conjunction with the State governments to provide a fodder subsidy? Is he also aware that if such a subsidy were provided at present it would enable the farmers to withhold stock until the sheep export ban has been lifted? 
-The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  obviously has not even read the Bill. There is a provision in the Bill which allows the Treasurer to impose such further restrictions as are required. Furthermore, the honourable member for Corio was casting aspersions by talking about the Victorian Government's cover-up in relation to this matter. The Victorian Government is an equal partner with the Federal Government in providing a guarantee- they are not providing the money- to a loan. The Victorian Government has not been involved in this matter before now. Why does not the honourable member for Corio realise what he is talking about? He should get his facts right before he starts lambasting the Government. He does not even know what he is talking about. The whole point is that the State Government-- 
-Put a zip in that gully trap over there. The whole point is that we understood from what the Opposition said that it would support the Bill as long as it contained a proviso in relation to a State government over whom we have no control. That is the case irrespective of whether the proviso relates to the socialist State Government of South Australia or the true blue Liberal Government of Victoria. We cannot make a proviso in relation to the States, even though the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  seems to think that it is technically all right for us to include in the legislation such a stipulation. Of course, we could put such a stipulation in the Bill. If the Victorian Government says 'No deal', the Opposition says that we can then withdraw the guarantee which it claims it intends to support. Honourable members opposite should just use their nous a little bit. We, as an equal partner with the Victorian Government, are guaranteeing support for something which will do a tremendous amount of good and keep an industry going. The honourable member for Gellibrand in particular should be anxious that this Bill be passed so that the people involved will again be provided with jobs. Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I suggest that we finalise consideration of the Bill. 
-As the Manager of Opposition Business  (Mr Young)  has quite rightly said, arrangements are made for a program but it is the Opposition which breaks the arrangements regularly by indulging in fantasies and wishing to suspend Standing Orders to bring on some debate at a particular time. By doing that the Opposition takes up the debating time of the House. The Government is merely trying to resurrect the balance of debate and to allow honourable members opposite to indulge in debates which are very important to this country. 
-On that point, I think it should also be recorded that at no stage did anybody try to stop the progress of the Australian Science and Technology Council Bill through the chamber. Nor, when the Opposition had  speaker  after  speaker  on the various clauses in the Committee stage, did we try to interpose and stop them. In fairness I think the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  should do the right thing and say that the Bill had proper passage through the chamber. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The Bill before the House is the Public Service Arbitration Amendment Bill. In rising to speak to it, firstly I must make a couple of points against the previous speakers. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  in his usual role as the defender of the unions, and he does it very well, spoke out very strongly in opposition to the Bill. But it is interesting to speculate that if a Bill were brought before the House next week to bring about the reverse conditions against the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union I am sure that he would speak against it. He is a nice fellow, but he has said, tongue in cheek, that what is good enough for the metal workers and other unionists is not good enough for the Public Service. The Government is trying to provide the Public Service with the same rights and privileges and restrictions and controls as those applying under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to the private enterprise sector. I think that that is not an unreasonable case to put forward. 
My colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  playing it fifty-fifty, agreed with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and supported the Bill, provided that it affects only the strikers, the ones who are causing the trouble. He knows quite well, as does the honourable member for Port Adelaide, that in the case of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, the Australian Workers Union and other unions, any person affected by a strike can be stood down through lack of work if necessary. I know that the honourable member for Lilley did not really mean what he said. He was only trying to point out something to protect some friend of his in the Public Service. 
Not as foolish as some of the statements that you have been known to make. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  was the stand-in for the Labor Party and he did it very well. I congratulate him for his try, but he stood up and said exactly the same thing. It is all right for private enterprise, it is all right for the unions outside- 
-Hello, we have that exhopeful premier from Victoria sitting over there. He lost in Victoria, he was hopeless there, and now he has come here. God help us, he could be the leader of the Labor Party in this country one day. That would be a tragedy! Never mind, let us get back to the Bill before he gets excited. The honourable member for Hughes said that the Minister was not sensitive. That is utter nonsense. Nobody in this country has tried to work more closely with the unions to bring about a good relationship between employees and employers than the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Opposition knows it and we know it. The Minister should be congratulated for the efforts he makes to arbitrate and conciliate at all times. There are many people on both sides of the House and in union and employer organisations who sometimes ask why the Minister does not use the big hammer on the unions, but he always prefers to conciliate and arbitrate for a better overall result. In every case he has been proved correct, and I support entirely his actions in this case. 
The honourable member for Hughes bemoaned the fact that these people in the Public Service do not get the chance to apply for jobs that were advertised in the class 4 section. The truth of the matter is that we are trying to bring better expertise into the Public Service, to provide the opportunity for the best man to get the job. The people to whom the honourable member referred are not restricted in applying for a job. What is the point of saying, as the honourable member said, that they should have some sort of special privilege, that they can apply first for a job and if nobody in the Public Service is suitable for the job then it can be advertised outside the Service? Honestly, that is ridiculous. Everybody would accept that. We are making it possible for outside expertise to be admitted to the Public Service. Those people will be measured against everybody else who applies, from within the Public Service or not, and the best applicant will be offered the job. That I think is a reasonable proposal, and that is exactly what we are doing. 
The honourable member won pre-selection for Melbourne Ports, and he won it against a much better man; but he won it on numbers only. Do not let us talk about winning pre-selection on ability, because the honourable member would not be here if that were the criteria. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I invite the honourable member to return to the Bill. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am delighted to return to the Bill. Let us look at the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. He quite clearly spelt out what this Bill is all about. He pointed out that as a result of the 
Norgard report certain action was recommended and taken by this Government. I am sure that if the Labor Party had been in government it also would have taken the same appropriate action, and on this occasion it would have been supporting that action. 
Employment Officer Class 4 positions in the Commonwealth Employment Service were advertised. Then the Public Service union decided to oppose this course, and bans were later applied. The honourable member for Port Adelaide said that he was surprised that bans were not applied earlier. I can understand that because his general theme is to strike, impose bans and create general industrial trouble. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
An officer or employee who is stood down will not be entitled to salary, wages or other remuneration and allowances in the nature of salary or wages in respect of a period for which he is stood down. Nor will the period of stand down count as service for the purposes of recreation leave, long service leave and sick leave. A period of stand down will not break an officer's or employee's continuity of employment for long service leave purposes. 
In supporting the Minister's second reading speech and the Bill, I would like to bring before the House some general information regarding other examples of federal awards under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I refer to a result of a survey conducted by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in August of last year, which revealed that at that time there were in excess of some 300 awards under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act with provisions for stand down or deductions of pay for any day that employees could not usefully be employed because of any strike or cause for which the employer could not reasonably be held responsible. I request the permission of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard  examples of the federal awards containing stand down provisions. The honourable member for Port Adelaide may look at them first, and if he agrees I would ask that they be incorporated. 
-I have two or three other documents, and I would ask that the honourable member for Port Adelaide look at all of them. If the House agrees, they might be incorporated. 
I am quite happy to pass them to the honourable member so he can look at them. It is a list of the various awards. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I appreciate that. The provisions of the metal industry award serve as an example of the stand down provision typical in most awards. Under this award the employer shall have the right to deduct payment for any day the employee cannot be usefully employed because of any strike or through any breakdown in machinery or any stoppage of work by any cause for which the employer cannot reasonably be held responsible. This is accepted under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act by all trade unions throughout the country. Why does the Opposition protest vigorously when we are trying to bring the Public Service into line with that? It is only carrying out a phantom exercise because it believes that is the role of the Opposition. We accept that, but let us be reasonable. The Opposition knows that what we are doing is correct. Members of the Opposition, in their hearts, support it. Do not say too many hurrahs. 

 The document read as follows- 

EXAMPLES OF FEDERAL AWARDS CONTAINING STAND DOWN PROVISIONS 
AWU- BHP Aust. Ltd, Westernport Refinery, Agreement 1972 
AWU- Oil Refinery Employees (Amoco Aust.) Agreement 1972 
Commonwealth Hostels Award 1 973 
Confectioners Award 1977 
Country Printing Award 1959 
Licensed Aircraft Engineers (Domestic Airlines) Award 1975 
Licensed Aircraft Engineers (Qantas Airways) Award 1975 
Liquor Industries (Wine and Spirit Stores) Award 1974 
Liquor Industries ( Breweries ) Award 1 974 
Mannequins and Models Tasmania and N.T. Award 1 974 
Manufacturing Grocers Consolidated Award 1975 
Metal Industry Award 1971 
Miscellaneous Workers Plaster of Paris and Gypsum Products Industry (CSR-Wetherill Park ) Award 1975 
Miscellaneous Workers Photographic Industry Award 1975 
Pilkington ACI Production and Warehousing Geelong No. 2 Award 
Port of Sydney Ship Repairing and Ship Building Industry Industrial Agreement 1976 
Queensland Alumina Ltd Agreement 1975 
Saddlery Leather and Canvas Workers Award 1 975 
Salaried Officers (TAA) Award 1 97 1 
Salaried Staff (Ansett Airlines ) Award 1 972 
Scientific and Technical Officers (Chemical Industry) Award 1972 
Storeman and Packers (Wool Selling Brokers and Repackers) Award 1973 
Surfacing Prospecting Geological Surveying, Exploration and Mineral Drilling Award 1973 
Television Industry Award 1975 
Textile Industry Award 1976 
Theatre Managers Award 1974 
Theatrical and Amusement Employees Award 1 947 
Underground Mining Award 1972 
Vehicle Industry Award 1 972 
-I thank the House. Under most of the awards loss of working time by an employee due to his being stood down without pay in terms of the relevant award provisions is not counted as part of the qualifying period for annual leave entitlement, although it will not break the continuity of service for such leave. The metal industry award is a typical example. Similarly, awards of the Commission relating to long service leave provide that interruption or termination of employment arising directly or indirectly from an industrial dispute is deemed as not breaking continuity of employment provided the employee returns to work in accordance with the settlement terms of the dispute, but the period of absence from duty does not count for long service leave purposes. Again I would ask that a document relating to this matter be shown to the honourable member for Port Adelaide. It shows the provisions of the metal industry award concerning annual leave. I state quite categorically that in relation to long service leave the metal industry award contains similar illustrations of these provisions applying in this sector. I would ask that the document be incorporated in  Hansard. 
-I agree. I also have two more documents to be incorporated. I have shown quite clearly that the Government is trying to bring the Public Service into line with the rights, privileges, controls, restrictions and the general ordinances of other organisations that come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 

 The documents read as follows- 

PROVISIONS OF METAL INDUSTRY AWARD RE ANNUAL LEAVE 
Clause 25 of the award provides that a period of 28 consecutive days' leave shall be allowed annually to an employee after 12 months continuous service (less the period of annual leave) as an employee on weekly hiring in any one or more of the occupations to which the award applies. 
In relation to calculation of continuous service the clause provides as follows: 
For the purpose of this clause service shall be deemed to be continuous notwithstanding: 
Any interruption or determination of the employment by the employer if such interruption or determination has been made merely with the intention of avoiding obligations hereunder in respect of leave of absence; 
any absence from work on account of personal sickness or accident or on account of lea ve lawfully granted by the employer; or (in) any absence with reasonable cause proof whereof shall be upon the employee. 
Any absence from work by reason of any cause not being a cause specified in this sub-clause shall not be deemed to break the continuity of service for the purposes of this clause unless the employer during the absence or within 14 days of the termination of the absence notifies the employee in writing that such absence will be regarded as having broken the continuity of service. 
In calculating the period of 12 months continuous service the following absences shall be taken into account and counted as time worked: 
Up to 160 ordinary working hours in a 12 monthly period in the case of sickness or accident; 
Long service leave taken by an employee in accordance with the Metal Industry (Long Service Leave) Award 1976 or the Queensland Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1 96 1 - 1 964, as the case may be. 
Other absences from work shall not be taken into account and shall not count as time worked in calculating the period of 12 months continuous service'. 
SUB-CLAUSE (1) OF CLAUSE 5 OF THE METAL TRADES (LONG SERVICE LEAVE) AWARD 
For the purposes of the award the service of an employee with an employer means the period during which the employee has served his employer under an unbroken contract of employment: provided that a contract of employment shall not be deemed to have been broken by reason only of any interruption or determination thereof, if the interruption or determination: 
has been made by the employer with the intention of avoiding any obligation imposed on him by this award or by State law dealing with long service leave; or 
has arisen directly or indirectly from a dispute concerning industrial matters, if the employee returns to duty with the same employer in accordance with the terms of settlement of the said dispute; or 
has been made by the employer by reason of slackness of trade, if the employee is re-employed by the same employer within six months of such interruption or determination; or 
has been made by the employer for any reason other than those referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) hereof, if the employee is re-employed by the same employer within two months of such interruption or determination. 
Provided further that the period during which the employment has been so interrupted or determined shall not, except when due to the reasons referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, be taken into account in calculating the period of service. ' 
Note: The following are further examples of federal awards containing identical provisions: 
The Federal Meat Industry (Long Service Leave) Award 1966 
The Food Preservers (Long Service Leave) Award 1964 
The Footwear- Manufacturing and Component- Industry (Long Service Leave) Award 1 977 
The Glass Workers (Long Service Leave) Award 1 965 
SICK LEAVE PROVISIONS OF THE METAL INDUSTRY AWARD 
Entitlement to sick leave 
An employee on weekly hiring who is absent from his work on account of personal illness, or on account of injury by accident arising out of and in the course of his employment, shall be entitled to leave of absence, without deduction of pay, subject to the following conditions and limitations. 
He shall not be entitled to paid leave of absence for any period in respect of which he is entitled to workers' compensation. 
He shall, as soon as reasonably practicable and within eight hours of the commencement of such absence inform the employer of his inability to attend for duty, and as far as practicable state the nature of the injury or illness and the estimated duration of the absence. 
If it is not reasonably practicable to inform the employer within eight hours of such absence the employee shall inform the employer within 24 hours of such absence. (iti) He shall prove to the satisfaction of his employer (or in the event of dispute, of a Board of Reference) that he was unable on account of such illness or injury to attend for duty on the day or days for which sick leave is claimed. 
He shall not be entitled during his first year of any period of service with an employer to leave in excess of forty hours of working time. Provided that during the first six months of the first year of any period of service with an employer, he shall be entitled to sick leave which shall accrue on a pro rata basis of  6V&gt;  hours of working time for each month of service completed with that employer. 
Provided further that an application by the employee during the seventh month of employment and subject to the availability of an unclaimed balance of sick leave the employee shall be paid for any sick leave taken during the first six months and in respect of which payment was not made. 
He shall not be entitled during the second or subsequent years of any period of service with an employer to leave in excess of 64 hours of working time. 
Single day absences 
In the case of an employee who claims to be allowed paid sick leave in accordance with this clause for an absence of one day only such employee if in the year he has already been allowed paid sick leave on more than one occasion for one day only, shall not be entitled to payment for the day claimed unless he produces to the employer a certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner that in his, the medical practitioner's opinion, the employee was unable to attend for duty on account of personal illness or on account of injury by accident. However, an employer may agree to accept from the employee a Statutory Declaration, stating that the employee was unable to attend for duty on account of personal illness or on account of injury by accident in lieu of a certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner as prescribed by this sub-clause. Nothing in this sub-clause shall limit the employer's rights under paragraph (iii) of sub-clause (a) hereof. 
Cumulative sick leave 
Sick leave shall accumulate from year to year so that any balance of the period specified in paragraphs (iv) and (v) of sub-clause (a) hereof which has in any year not been allowed to an employee by an employer as paid sick leave may be claimed by the employee and subject to the conditions hereinbefore prescribed shall be allowed by that employer in a subsequent year without diminution of the sick leave prescribed in respect of that year. Provided that sick leave which accumulates pursuant to this sub-clause shall be available to the employee for a period of twelve years but for no longer from the end of the year in which it accrues. 
-I thank the House. As I was saying, clearly in the private sector the trade union movement quite rightly accepts the restrictions, rights, controls and privileges provided under those awards. Why should the Public Service not be given the same priviliges and rights? Why should it be a privileged body that is allowed to have different rights? In most cases, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said when he was a Minister in the Labor Government- this refers to what the honourable member for Hughes said about this Government taking some action against senior public servants- they are the fat cats, the most privileged people in this country. 
The honourable member is wasting his time. He should go back to Victoria. He was not successful there, but he is less successful here. I am sorry,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will go back to the Bill. 
Yes, he is a recap and not a very good one at that. The honourable member for Hindmarsh made it quite clear that the Labor government was opposed to privileges, rights and everything given to public servants. Strangely enough now that the Labor Party is in Opposition its members say in here that the Government cannot do anything that might be detrimental to the Public Service. They do not fool the public servants. They know what members of the Opposition do at every opportunity they get. The real fact is that public servants get many privileges under this Government, and they are protected in many ways, but they know in their hearts and in their minds that they should not get more rights than their fellow Australians; therefore, they should be bound by the same rules of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as the ordinary workers of this country. 
I totally support the Minister who has always worked very closely with the unions. He has discussed these matters with all sections of the union movement in this country and is held in very high esteem by the union organisations. He is prepared not only to speak up when he is in favour of something the unions want but also to stand up for what he knows is right when it may not be entirely what they want. I support entirely what the Government is proposing in this Bill and what the Minister put forward. 
My question to the Treasurer concerns branch profits tax. I refer to an announcement on 4 November last by the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer that the Government intended to introduce an additional branch profits tax on non-resident companies deriving taxable income in Australia. I ask the Treasurer: What developments have occurred since that announcement? Can he advise the House when the necessary legislation will be introduced? 

 -Mr Chairman, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Chairman,  grievously. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  in his usual style has totally misrepresented what I said. I said that he was responsible for the turtle farming, and while he was Minister he was responsible. If honourable members bother to read the report - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-Just a moment. Wait for it. Do not hold your breath. While he was Minister we had the greatest disruption, the worst mishandling and appropriation of government funds. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Has the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence seen reports of Government secrecy over moves to phase out the Australian Services Canteens Organisation? If so, can he explain to the House the present position? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Is the Minister aware of a letter that is being circulated to various councils in Victoria and, no doubt, to other States by a Councillor Healy of Fitzroy City Council on behalf of a group called Medibank Action Coalition and that this letter is being posted in a postage paid envelope restricted for the use of members of Parliament. If he is aware of this action will he undertake to call for an inquiry by the Commonwealth Police of the honourable member concerned? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Does the Government intend to proceed with the income means testing of family allowances based on the income of the child? 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the recent passage of legislation by the United States Congress which would have adverse consequences for the Australian beef industry? What action does the Government propose to take in this matter? 
-I will restrict my remarks to housing. It is not often that I can agree with the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  but I accept some of the remarks he has just made. He said that the housing industry is one of the most important industries in this country. It creates employment. It helps to boost the economy. If we have a viable building industry we have a viable economy. That has always been my personal view. I have yet to find any reason to change that attitude. I assure the honourable member for Reid that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who is at the table, also has that attitude. It is just a matter of how money is spent. This Government is taking proper restrictive and necessary economic measures in view of the state of the economy which it inherited from the former Labor Government, which unfortunately threw money around in any direction. 
The Budget announced the decision to reduce the prescribed assets ratio of the savings banks by 5 per cent. This should enable those banks to lend more money for housing this year. We congratulate the Minister for that. I express a little concern- I have no doubt that he has the same concern- that when a similar measure was taken by the former Treasurer, the banks, unfortunately, held a greater amount of money in assets than was required. I wonder whether the money will go to where it is supposed to go, that is, the housing industry. I ask the Minister to make every effort to ensure that the banks funnel this money into the housing area. It is well known that banks are not noted for providing housing funds unless the person wishing to borrow has a certain amount of equity or a long trading association with the bank. I am not being unkind. Banks have a marvellous record of providing money for housing to people on a certain level of income. But there is a very large demand for housing from people with an income of $250 a week and less. 
The honourable member agrees. I well remember that when the Labor Party was in government it did not want to provide any money through homes savings grants. It wanted all funds to go to rental homes. 
-It is reasonably right. The honourable member who interjected was the Minister for Housing who wanted to make houses available for $6,000. Through the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, the Minister has provided the means for assisting more people to own a home for giving rental assistance. This is important. 
I now turn to a problem which I believe is not being attacked properly. I have been informed that 15,000 young couples or families wish to purchase homes through co-operative and terminating building societies. These government guaranteed societies operating under State legislation are restricted in the amounts of money they have to lend at the moment. I have put forward a proposal to the Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that the Commonwealth Government show the way by taking out a national loan of $500m. Recently a $700m national loan was raised in a matter of days. The people of Australia are prepared to invest their money in the future of this country. What better way to invest their money than in housing for the young people of this country. Various opponents to such a scheme argue that there has been a drop in building permits and that the demand for housing has dropped simply because many people are buying old homes and doing them up. I have yet to see a person who sells a home and does not require another one in which to live. 
It is normal in our society that when a young person is starting off he has to buy within his means. This is logical and it is right. People earning $250 a week and less are restricted in the amount of money they can pay for a home. They cannot pay $60,000. At present they are limited to a loan of $25,000 if they can get the maximum amount, which they can borrow for up to 25 years or 30 years at a very low rate of interest of about 7 per cent. This is provided for in the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. It is good. But this provision caters for only a small group of people. There is a tremendous line up of people wanting to take out loans at every cooperative and terminating building society in this country. I ask the Minister to give this matter careful consideration and to discuss it with the Treasurer. I will take it up with them. I am sure that all State governments, of whatever political persuasion, and the Opposition would join us in saying: 'Let us get young people into houses. We do not want them living in flats. Let us get this country where it should be so that people who want homes have the opportunity of getting them, particularly those on low incomes.' The 
Housing Agreement will cater for those people earning $160 a week and under with loans at a low interest rate. Those people earning $160 a week to $250 a week can afford the repayments on loans of about $30,000 at an interest rate of  9Vi  per cent. I have some figures which I have shown to the honourable member for Reid. They indicate that the repayment term can range from 30 to 45 years on loans varying from $25,000 to $35,000. 1 seek leave to have this table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810194_73_12.jpg"></graphic>

-If money is raised by the Government for housing, it does not have to be pushed out immediately. It could make a progressive loan of $150m this year, another early next year and so on. In a short space of time the building industry would be moving again. Young people on low income levels would be able to buy homes. They, in turn, would create a higher demand for homes for those on the higher income level who wished to move into a better home. They could sell and move into another home. It would be a cycle. If the Government is prepared to take out this loan, the money should be provided only to State government organisations, the terminating or co-operative building societies. It should not be available to housing commissions for rental homes. Rental assistance has already been provided for under the existing agreement. I am talking about providing money expressly for the purpose of assisting young people to purchase a home and to give them the opportunity of home ownership, in which the Liberal and National Country parties have always believed. Home ownership will provide - 
When the honourable member was Minister for Housing he was totally opposed to home ownership. We believe in home ownership. The Government has had to face up to a difficult economic problem. It has brought down a Budget designed to carry the economy within the limits of the money available. But Australian money is available. It will not affect inflation or interest rates. It can be borrowed at the normal rate of 9 per cent, without upsetting any lending institution. This money could provide the impetus for housing for the young people of this country on low levels of income. The banks, through arrangements made by the Treasurer and the Minister, have the opportunity also of lending money to those people who can afford higher repayments. We have the opportunity to make sure that the building industry gets the impetus it deserves. I can assure honourable members if we can get the building industry on its feet every other sector of the country will respond. People who buy houses furnish them. They do not live in bare houses. They buy furniture. They set up a home. Food is bought. They buy lawnmowers. They buy boats, as the Opposition Whip does. They buy television sets. They buy radios. This is life. 
The point is that if we can get the housing industry going in this country, I am certain in my mind- I know that a number of my colleagues join with me in this belief- that we can make the economy tick the way we want it to tick. We can achieve that result without forcing an increase in the rate of inflation. I will take this matter as far as I can to ensure that this loan is raised. I am certain that the Cabinet will give very favourable consideration to this very important matter. I believe that the result will be an expansion of the building industry, which in turn will be of great benefit to the young people of this country, to the economy of this country and to the future of this country. The housing industry is one of our greatest employers. It is one of the greatest users of the natural resources of the country and it is one of the major industries of the country. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to make a comment on some remarks that were made before and that I wish to correct. 
-I wish to correct comments made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  when he claimed to have been misrepresented. He was wrong. He was referring to a different resolution from that referred to by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Prime Minister referred to- I think this should be brought before the House - 
MrBOURCHIER- They do not want to hear it,  Mr Speaker. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I just wanted to point out that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was talking about - 
I want to draw the attention of the House to the fact that while the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  was making an attack on two of our Ministers, I checked to see whether he had taken the usual courtesy that a member takes when he is going to make an attack on a member. I found that he had not advised the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. 
-Before raising the subject that I did wish to speak on in the grievance debate, I feel it only proper that some answer be given to the outburst by the member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  who claims decency is one of his goals. I think we could well record a quip he made at the time of the bombing in Sydney which accurately describes his standards of decency. However, he mentioned the purchase of cars. It was his former Leader who purchased the car the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is now driving, an imported Mercedes-Benz. It is the present Prime Minister who is purchasing an Australian made car, so he should get his facts right. The honourable member talks about travel and mentions the cost of a trip to America. Let me remind him of some of the extravagances of his former Leader when he was Prime Minister of this country. Without going into the many, many details which have been published before, I would mention one or two things. 
Firstly, in the first S30 days of the Fraser Government the ministerial visits were 54 covering 584 days. With the Whitiam Government there were 71 visits covering 1,053 days. One of the highlights of the former Prime Minister's visits was a 35-day trip to 13 countries in December 1974- January 1975 accompanied by 42 people. He would need two of the planes the Prime Minister is talking about buying to accommodate the troops he took with him. The cost of that trip alone was $495,000. We only needed the former Prime Minister to stay home for three trips and we would have been able to buy a whole fleet of planes for this country. 
The matter I raise is of much more importance than the trivia that the honourable member for Shortland goes on with. It is the problem of drugs in this country. Recently in my area I became aware- as I am sure the whole country was made aware- of the tragic loss of a young boy who died through experimenting with drugs. I am not going into the details of his death because his parents have had enough sorrow over it. However, the point is that in this country today books on drugs can be purchased from various booksellers throughout the country. I have one here called  The Basic Drug Manufacture: Easy to follow instructions for the synthesing of Mescaline, LSD, et cetera.  It sets out step by step procedures whereby young people today can go into shops and purchase from chemists the readily available materials listed in this book to make these drugs. I am not going to speak about them or name these particular drugs. 
The book also points out the steps that should be taken to obtain these chemicals without being discovered. It is encouraging the young in this country to go out and purchase such devastating materials. It is not so much the materials themselves in that form that has been devastating. By using the step by step program in the book young people can learn to make LSD and other such drugs. I did raise the matter with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  as a matter of urgency. I think the country should be doing everything possible to prevent such books coming into this country. I will not ask for this book to be included in  Hansard  because I think the less seen of it the better for everybody concerned. In his reply to my request the Minister pointed out that the Government in which he is a Minister has asked his Department to have a look at the situation. He raised the matter at a recent meeting of Federal and State Ministers responsible for drug matters and all expressed concern at the distribution of this type of material. 
Each State agreed to examine closely the possibility of amending appropriate legislation. That was 1 1 July 1 978 and I do not recall having seen any legislation appropriately redrafted to overcome this problem. It is no good standing around the country bleating about the problemwhether it is State or Federal- facing young people today in the drug scene. We have to act. It is all right to have security people checking on the importation of drugs. I go along with that and they are doing a great job. In fact the news we read in the Press advising of the capture of people bringing drugs into the country is surely good news to every decent citizen, particularly concerned parents; but surely if this sort of thing can go on unchecked through the universities or wherever else these books are distributed- by being distributed I mean made available for sale- then I think as responsible members of Parliament, both in the Federal and in the State area, we should demand that such books are not allowed into this country. If any are printed in this country under licence they should be banned. 
I would go further to say that anybody handling such books in a retail way should be made liable for a very heavy penalty. The people who sell this type of booklet freely on the bookstalls and advocate the making of drugs are just as culpable of causing the drug abuse in this country as anybody importing the other forms of drugs. Following the last election I was rather disgusted to read that a Tasmanian Labor senator advocated the legalisation of pot. An article in the Launceston  Examiner  in July 1978 said that a Tasmanian Labor senator supported the legalisation of marihuana. What sort of thinking is that when we are seeing an expansion of the drug problem in this country? There is talk about pot being taken used without any ill effects. That is a lot of nonsense. It is a first step down the trail to drug taking. In my opinion, anybody who supports this sort of thing has no right to be in Parliament. We should be standing here trying to stop drug growth in this country by whatever means a government is able to use. 
I did not hear the comment of the honourable member trying to interject. I will not name him as I do not want to embarrass him. I hope he is not advocating anything other than support. Knowing the person concerned I am sure he would not be. I am sure he would be one of the many members on that side of the House agreeing about the drug problem in this country. I hope that he in his own party takes back to his own State where his party is in control of the State Government a note of what I am saying. He may have a copy of the booklet to take back and to ask the State Government to take action. We do not want to see any headlines as we saw in the Melbourne  Sun  about the 'Deadly Experiment', with young school children playing around with experiments and ending up dead. Sad though that boy's case is with the loss of a life, possibly it is better that it happened than he had gone along with an experiment where he would have ended up a total drug addict with no future. Every day we see the problems in this country relating to drugs. Any one who talks to the police forces will be advised of the number of arrests that are being made of people trafficking in drugs. It appears to me that we, as responsible people sent both to this Parliament and to State governments, have a moral duty to take whatever action is possible to make sure that the drug situation in Australia, if not totally wiped outwhich probably would be an impossible situation- should at least be curtailed as much as possible. 
Let us face it, the penalties for drug trafficking are insufficient. Unless the governments instruct and ensure that the penalties for drug trafficking and drug usage are raised and the people who promote such filthy literature as this book are subject to a much greater penalty, I am afraid it is a waste of time just running around and expecting the police to apprehend them because as fast as these people are apprehended they pay the fine. You can read of people being caught weekly who will hand over $900,000 in cash to pay for drugs. Surely money is not the answer to stop these people. They should be locked up for a very long time. I hope the members on the opposite side do take some notice of what I am saying and will try to take some action in regard to their own State governments, as I intend to do in my State and in this Federal Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. I refer him to the recent decision of the Government to increase the number of apprentices in government services. Will the Minister advise the House whether this increase is subject to the existing staff ceilings? Is he aware that the Bendigo Ordnance Factory can take on only five apprentices this year as opposed to 20 the previous year? Is he also aware of the proposal to exclude apprentices from the staff ceilings, to encourage the employment of extra apprentices? If so, can he advise the House when a decision to accept this proposal will be announced? 
Has the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs considered a suggestion to allow voluntary early retirement by persons in the work force who are not eligible for Public Service superannuation, such early retirements being subject to the agreement of a person's employer to engage an unemployed person in his place? Subject to this condition, the person accepting such early retirement would be eligible to obtain an age pension. The payment of such pension would be offset by the non-payment of an unemployment benefit. 
-In rising to speak in this debate, I wish to make it clear at the outset that I support the Lusher motion and, if it is necessary to vote on it, I will support the Cadman amendment. It is interesting to note that during the speeches I listened to, and I admit that I have not been able to listen to every speaker, either yesterday or today, I do not recall anybody mentioning that this happens to be the International Year of the Child. That is a very appropriate point that we should all keep in mind when we are talking about this very important matter. Another important point that I came across when looking up some facts on this matter relates to the oath of Hippocrates. That oath, which I understand most doctors take when they succeed in their studies and go into practice, states in part: 'I will not aid a woman to procure abortion. ' I think that is rather a significant statement considering some of the things that are happening throughout this country. 
One of the things that have been raised constantly by speakers opposing the Lusher motion throughout this debate has been the fact that there is a legal facility for women to obtain an abortion. The honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  mentioned that a woman can demand to have an abortion. I seem to remember that we had a very extensive and, I thought, thorough debate on this subject in 1973. The decision of the Parliament following that debate was that abortions were not for people on demand. That is one of the reasons that I find myself supporting the Lusher motion. Another reason I support it is the fact that medical benefits are supposedly refunds for payments made for services rendered for an illness. I think it would be really stretching one 's imagination to suggest that the 50,000-odd abortions that occur every year are all necessary because of illness. 

 - Mr Speaker, I hope my six minutes have not expired. 
-You might wish they had, but I am sure that quite a few people outside this place do not agree with you. The point is that whatever happens regarding this debate tonight, if one of the amendments to the motion is passed, to stop funding in some form, it is not going to change the legality of the situation regarding persons who properly require operations. What we are getting down to is the people opposing this motion simply say: 'Well, look it is all right. We are acting within the law, therefore it is okay'. But if they honestly examined their consciences they could not really believe that those 50,000 abortions a year are all completely in conformity with the Menhennitt ruling or the other rulings that are accepted as fact. They are not and honourable members opposite know it; I know it and so do the people of Australia who are concerned about it. I am also concerned about it. 
The point that I get back to is that health benefits are refunds for payments for the treatment of an illness. That is one of the reasons I have no hesitation in supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell, on the basis that it clearly provides that an abortion legally because of illness or other factors equal to illness can of course be accepted. But in the existing situation in some Statesmany members on both sides of the argument have said this, and I could not agree more with them- the States should look at their own nests, they should look at the situation and take positive action. But that is not the point. We have no control over State governments. We cannot force State governments to tidy up their laws or to make sure that a law is enacted. What happens is that the States introduce a law and if they are slipshod in their methods and do not care what happens within the parameters of those laws it does not mean that we are doing the right thing by closing our eyes as well. I do not agree with that. I believe we have a moral duty as well as a political duty to look after this country. Anything that we can do to assist the standard of living in this country, to ensure that the people of this country have proper standards to live by, then that is the stance we should take in this Parliament. I do not wish to take up any more of the time of the House except again to state that I will be supporting the Lusher motion in principle. 

 -Mr Speaker, further to the matter raised by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  there are two points to which I would like to draw your attention. The first is that the Press does not necessarily print the names of tellers all the time. In one newspaper, I am led to understand, the list was cut off without the tellers' names being mentioned. That does support the argument raised by the honourable member for Burke. I ask that you,  Mr Speaker,  have a look at this matter and that the tellers' names be included quite clearly in alphabetical order. Also,  Sir, in  your own remarks you said that the tellers voted for the ayes. I think, with due respect, you should have said that the tellers whose names were listed under the ayes voted for the ayes and that those whose names were listed under the noes, as my name was, voted for the noes. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware that a new low alcohol content beer is now on the market? Does he agree that this is a positive and responsible action taken by the Australian brewing industries in Australia? 
-by leave-The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  mentioned the untimely death of Paul Ward. I register my deep sorrow and regret. Those who have had a privilege of attending an inter-parliamentary union conference know the value that Paul Ward was to the organisation. I support the comments of the honourable member for Newcastle concerning the value of the work to Parliament of a person such as Paul Ward. I refer also to the matter that I have raised at IPU meetings in this place. I have suggested that the IPU should have a permanent secretary. I congratulate the honourable member for Newcastle for making that point. I think we should have a look at that matter. He also raised the point about a separate briefing for Opposition members. I remind him that the present practice was carried out when we were in opposition. I accepted the role I was given when I attended conferences as a member of the Opposition. I was going away to represent the Government of Australia and not just the Opposition. I supported, on that basis, the stance of the Government on foreign affairs matters. I think that the matter of evenhandedness is involved in this approach. I ask the honourable member for Newcastle to keep that in mind. Honourable members should not apply their own views to a particular situation. 
I regret that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  spent little time, even though he apologised, attending the IPU conference. It is a worthwhile organisation and provides a tremendous forum for us to meet fellow colleagues irrespective of their country. It gives us a chance to meet them personally and also creates, I believe, a lot of goodwill. The honourable member for Newcastle spoke about delegations voting in blocs. He said that they voted along government lines. I remind him that I have yet to see him cross the floor and not follow his party vote. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  on his thought provoking address. He is well known on this side of the House for presenting his speeches in this fashion. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in his second reading speech on the Customs Amendment Bill 1979 stated: 
Drug abuse is a major social problem in Australia at the present time. It is a matter which the Government has addressed as a high priority. The Bill I introduce today is the result of more than 1 8 months work on a tough, but in the view of the Government appropriate, law to attack the real source of the problem, that is the people who organise and profit from the drug trade. 
Bearing in mind those remarks I think that both sides of the House would agree that it is time that the Government took appropriate action and introduced necessary legislation. Some members may wish to disagree with some points of the legislation, but the thrust of it, I am sure, is acceptable not only to this Parliament but also to the whole of Australia. I think the general populace of Australia would regard it as one of the most welcome pieces of legislation. As the Minister said, the drug trade is organised in an unscrupulous and a totally immoral fashion. When we are dealing with people who have no facility to accept the principles and moral standards of this country I am afraid that there is not much point in trying to be nice. I congratulate the Minister for providing the amenities et cetera to the customs officers who will be in charge of tracking these people down and for providing the extra penalties that are so badly needed. 
The honourable member for Hawker said in his remarks- I am not being critical of him; in fact, I thought that most of his comments were very positive- that there was a tendency to impose light penalties. However, I have been assured that in several recent cases the judge concerned has imposed the maximum penalty. In imposing that maximum penalty the judge indicated his concern at the inadequacy of the penalties available. I congratulate the judge. I hope that he will welcome the legislation and the stronger penalties that he will now be able to impose if necessary. We all know of cases where the penalties imposed appear to be rather trivial by comparison with the offence to which they are directed. 
I call to mind a recent case in my area, and for obvious reasons I do not wish to mention names, in which a person accused of being a drug trafficker had supplied methadone to two young boys of 17 years of age. As a result, one of the boys died a tragic death and the other was treated and saved only by intensive care in hospital. The person responsible, who apparently was himself a heroin addict and had taken huge quantities of whisky to try to break the habit, was fined $300 and given a 12 months suspended sentence. That is a ridiculous situation. On the other hand, either on the same day or within the next few days, I read in the same newspaper of a person who was convicted of driving a car while his licence was suspended being sentenced to 14 days in gaol. 
One wonders sometimes where we are going, and I congratulate the Government for taking positive action in regard to imported drugs and the problems they are causing and for providing adequate penalties. The Minister knows that I raised in the party room the possibility of a statutory minimum penalty at a much higher level than that which applies at present. However, he properly pointed out the problems in law associated with such a penalty. Nevertheless, I wonder whether this is a situation in which a judge should not have the right to vary the penalty but should impose a statutory penalty. In the State of Victoria, and I assume in other States, if one is proved to have been driving under the influence of a certain level of alcohol the magistrate does not have to consider the fine he will impose. A statutory automatic penalty is imposed. I believe that a similar situation should be applied to this terrible problem. 
This Bill relates basically to imported drugs, the actions the Government can take, and the penalties that can be imposed. I think we should also be looking at the internal situation, although probably that is not within the jurisdiction of the Federal Government but is more of a State matter. An equal problem exists internally in relation to drugs. How often do we read of cases where marihuana growers have been caught? In some instances people have purchased a farm on a minimum deposit, although there may be a huge purchase price of many thousands of dollars, and have paid off the farm in a very short space of time. It must be fairly lucrative to be in the cannabis-growing business. One of the biggest problems facing law enforcement officers is that when they track down these people, and apparently they are fairly successful, the penalty imposed is not so significant as to cause any burden. I have an open mind on the question of marihuana. It has not been proved to my satisfaction that it is not addictive. It has not been proved that it does not lead to addiction to hard drugs. Marihuana is classed as a soft drug. I believe that it presents a great danger to the young people of this country, and in support of my comments I will quote from a statement by the American Medical Association House of Delegates. Before doing so, I want to say that if we believe that there is a problem for young people, and I believe there is- I think most of us have some doubts about the argument put forward that marihuana is ineffective- then surely tougher penalties should be provided to prevent people from making huge profits out of leading young people into what ultimately could be the end of the road, the taking of hard drugs. That is a matter that should be of concern to us. On that question, the American Medical Association report states: 
The American Medical Association House of Delegates adopted a statement on marihuana that was consistent with research findings and patterns of usage prevailing at that time. The House found little conclusive evidence of longterm adverse consequences of marihuana use in the United States, but it did advocate 'a policy of discouragement' because of the 'possibility of some deleterious effects on the user and on society at large which could constitute a major public health problem '. 
That is a fairly accusatory statement in real terms. It is no use saying that the problem is not real, that no trouble comes from smoking marihuana. Under the heading 'Implications for the User', the report points out: 
Any form of drug abuse can have more serious consequences for those individuals who are especially vulnerable. 
We cannot make laws for individuals or for certain sections of the community. We have to make laws which apply to everybody and cater for those who are most affected. The report continues: 
Children and adolescents are one such group. The effects of drugs on the young, who are in early stages of both physiological and psychological development, can be more pronounced and more persistent than effects on more mature persons. 
Marihuana is potentially damaging to health in a variety of ways, but it can be especially harmful when used by a person who is immature, unstable, or already ill. 
I think that we ought to take note of those comments. Further, the report states: 
The sale and possession of marihuana are criminal offences under US federal law. Sale is a crime under all state laws, and possesion is a crime under most. 
I believe that we should acknowledge that in this country. In this Bill the Minister has dealt with the problem of imported drugs such as heroin and has taken a positive step by increasing to a maximum of life imprisonment, without the option of a fine, the penalty for trafficking in drugs in a commercial quantity. I sincerely trust that those in authority who will impose these penalties on convicted persons will impose the maximum penalty. The sooner we see some people put away for life for selling this awful product the sooner there will be a reluctance to indulge in the practice, even though the profit is so high, as my colleague the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  has said. 
I am somewhat alarmed to find, and I have mentioned this before in this House, that one of the problems we have in this country, aside from the importation of drugs, is that drugs of a chemical nature can be manufactured by persons with some reasonable expertise in the field of chemistry. To help them do this, they can buy from various organisations a booklet teaching them about basic drug manufacture. I am not going to go through that booklet again, except to mention that it quite clearly sets out the stepbystep procedures necessary to produce drugs such as LSD. We are to impose penalties relating to drugs such as heroin and we know its awful impact on society. I am sure that we all agree that chemical-based drugs have equally disastrous effects on human life. The Federal Government ought to play its part, and call on the States to play their part, in taking whatever action is possible to increase the necessary penalties, and to provide assistance to law enforcement officers so that they can track down drugs and prevent them from being made available. That would mean, of course, that we should also consider the simple matter of preventing such booklets from being sold in this country. It is remarkable that one can go to a bookshop and buy a book that will allow children, if they have had a basically sound education to make these drugs. It is about time that we had a look at that matter in conjunction with the excellent procedures undertaken by the Government in this Bill. 
Finally, having expressed my concern about marihuana, I say once again that I was somewhat staggered to find that at a time when we are talking in terms of possible drug addiction and the effect of drugs, whether they be the so-called soft or hard drugs, on the young people of this country, we have a member of the other House who, not long after being elected to Parliament- I refer to an honourable senator from Tasmania- openly advocated that pot be legalised. I hope that this person will read carefully the transcript of what I have said. If he wishes, I will certainly be pleased to show him a copy of this booklet and also copies of what the Americans have found in their research into marihuana and its effect on young people. He might then have second thoughts on the matter. I am certain that he was only carried away with the rush of blood to his head at being elected to Parliament. When he reads the legislation of the Government in regard to the actions we have taken to combat the importation and use of hard drugs, I trust that he, along with many others, will have a second look at this sort of attitude. 
-The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has raised this positive point a number of times. I believe we already have machinery in the House that would help immensely in allowing major Bills to be debated at greater length. I refer to our legislation committees. At present we are forwarding Bills to these committees for discussion after they have been through the second reading stage. I think all of us would agree that many Bills are what we call minor machinery Bills. Surely they could be forwarded to a legislation committee after the second reading stage so that the legislation committee could be sitting at the same time as the House. The legislation committee could handle a number of these Bills. They could then be brought back to the House for a vote, if necessary. We would then have much more time to debate major Bills at the second reading stage and at the Committee stage or to debate statements by Ministers. I am sure the nation would benefit from such debates. 
Can the Leader of the House advise the House as to the number of opportunities provided for members to introduce private members' business, such as matters of public importance, et cetera, the number of times the guillotine has been used and the number of times debates have been gagged? Can the Minister also advise the House how these figures compare with the performance of the previous Labor Government? 
-The matter I want to talk about tonight concerns two incidents which follow the tragic death of Lord Mountbatten. Fortunately I did not experience the two programs I am going to talk about but I was told about them and I took the trouble of getting the transcripts of the programs. I refer to  Willesee at Seven  and  Nationwide  on which appeared for interview a  Mr John  Murray who apparently calls himself the Secretary of the Ulster Association of Victoria. He made some rather startling comments during those programs. I have read the transcripts and listened to people who saw the programs. They considered it absolutely and totally disgraceful to allow this man on television to make such comments after an incident concerning such a wellknown and respected figure as, and particularly a man of the age of, Lord Mountbatten. 
For the record, I will make one or two quotes from the various interviews. The first is from the transcript of Channel 7's  Willesee at Seven.  In answer to the question: 
Can you tell me what Lord Mountbatten did to deserve to be murdered? 
John Murray answered: 
Well firstly I didn't speak on behalf of the Irish Republican Army, I spoke of a supporter of the Irish Liberation Forces of the Irish Republican Army, not a spokesman for them. I expressed a view as a citizen from Northern Ireland and also as secretary of the Ulster Association of Victoria. Now as far as Lord Mountbatten goes, he was a member of the British aristocracy, also a member of the British War Machine in Northern Ireland, a supporter of the British War Machine. He was not in Ireland specifically on a holiday, he was there most likely to gather information on the activities of the Irish Liberation Forces in that part of Ireland. 
A 79-year-old man on holidays was there for that purpose! Mike Willesee made the point by asking the question: 
A 79 year old man taking the annual holiday he's taken for some 30, 40 years straight? 
John Murray responded: 
A 79 year old man could be instrumental in gathering more information from the people of that particular part of Ireland on the activities of the Irish Liberation Forces than will say a much younger man. 
Willesee then asked him: 
When you have a real army in Northern Ireland, supported by intelligence units and lots of sophisticated equipment, do you seriously try to tell people watching this program that the 79 year old Lord Louis Mountbatten was collecting important intelligence against the IRA? 
JOHN MURRAY: Well he would not be the first Englishman who had been kept under surveillance in Ireland, in both parts of Ireland, for gathering information on the Irish Republican Army. 
But the interesting part comes when Mike Willesee asks him of the death of Lord Mountbatten: 
You did applaud it this morning in a radio interview on 3XY. 
JOHN MURRAY: To me applaud is for a person to get up and clap his hands well I certainly did not do that. 
MIKE WILLESEE: Alright you didn't clap your hands when you were asked about that, you said there should be more of it. 
JOHN MURRAY: I didn't say, I said there would be more of it. 
MIKE WILLESEE: You said there should be more deaths among the aristocracy. 
JOHN MURRAY: Yes there should be more deaths amongst the British Army of occupation and the British aristocracy and if that is going to liberate Ireland well so be it. 
I turn now to the other interview program. John Murray was asked a question and responded to it by saying: 
I don't condemn the killing of Lord Mountbatten. Nor am I here to discuss by whom he was killed. 
He also said: 
I wouldn't say it is all out war on members of the British Royal Family. There have been leading figures in Britain who have been considered legitimate targets for the Irish Republican Army and they say that he was one of them. 
Things must be desperate if they have to have as a target a 79 year old man. I wonder how brave they would have to be to do it that way instead of facing him. I wonder where  Mr Murray  would stand. The interviewer Paul Murphy, then asked him: 
Would you, as Secretary of the Victorian Branch of the Ulster Association, support further attacks on members of the British Royal Family if that were to happen, if that were announced IRA, Provo, policy? 
MURRAY: Oh yes, yes. If it was announced Irish Republican Army Policy yes, of course we would support it . . . 
The interviewer then asked him: 
As you say, you support them, you have sympathies for the IRA. Do you think it is right that you should live in a country, Australia, which has as its Queen the Queen of England? 
Murray went on to say that 'it does not matter that she is the Queen of Australia; that is just too bad'. Well, my opinion is that if this man who has been in Australia since 1950 is allowed to stay here there is something wrong with the laws of our country. If he is not an Australian citizen, we should take all possible action to have him deported. If he is an Australian citizen, we should start a fund to have him sent out. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has recently introduced minimum requirements for commercial television stations in the area of programming for children? Is the Minister further aware that at certain times throughout the year major sporting events of national interest have traditionally been telecast at the time which the Tribunal has designated to be set aside specifically for children's programs? Can the Minister inform the House as to what discretion the Tribunal will allow commercial television stations in presenting the sporting programs rather than the children's programs as required by the recent Tribunal decision? Will such provisions by the Tribunal cover such sporting programs which will be telecast during school periods? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has the working party that was set up to monitor the bulk billing by doctors of disadvantaged persons' medical accounts to the Department of Health reported to the Minister or the Government? If so, is the scheme working satisfactorily? 
I feel it necessary to rise and make some comments on one or two of the remarks made by some members of the Opposition. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  in his usual histrionic manner, tried to suggest that the Government in some way is taking some dreadful step against all unionists by bringing in this proposal for unemployment benefits to be refused to those members of a union who are unemployed as a result of industrial action related to their particular union. Surely it has been obvious to this country for many years that the tactic of the trade unions is no longer to have the old form of strike, to call out the union. Now they create the industrial atmosphere that they require by calling out a few key workers and use the taxpayers' money to meet union responsibilities. That is exactly what this Bill is all about. 
Let us not overlook the fact that we are talking about strikes and industrial action. Unions are going out on strike. It seems to me that the Opposition has the idea that people should be free to cause industrial disruption continuously to the detriment of the progress of this country without any responsibilities attaching to that action. The Government is saying that there is a responsibility. There is a responsibility for the rank and file members of the unions. Union members have to say to the handful of people causing these pinpricking strikes; 'Cut it out; don't do it, it is starting to affect us as well as everybody else'. When it starts to affect them, they might well tell these fellows to stop it. Let us have a little more common sense in our approach to what is going on. We might well find that the people about whom the honourable member for Port Adelaide was talking might send telegrams to their cobbers in other areas saying: 'Look, you have gone out on strike and we are not going to be paid. We are part of the same union and we support your strike but we do not want to be held responsible for it. ' Of course they must be held responsible. They must take that responsibility. The Government- and through the Government the taxpayer- cannot be expected to pay union responsibilities. Unions extract an enormous amount annually in fees from their members and put that money into coffers so they can pay Australian Labor Party campaign funds, as well as use it for other nefarious purposes. 
Let us be honest about it. It is not untrue. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  knows they supported the Opposition's campaign last time. In collecting this money surely the unions have a responsibility to look after their members. They should not expect the taxpayers to look after their members while they are out on strike. The poor old honourable member for Corio has to live with this. I understand that, but let us be honest. The taxpayer, the average Australian citizen, is well aware that for too long the unions have been trying to run a double game in this country. It is about time the Government took the action it has taken, and I fully support it. 
The honourable member for Corio seemed to suggest in relation to clause 41 that discretion to judge whether persons should or should not receive unemployment benefits because of the manner of their leaving employment has gone. That is not true. The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  acknowledged that that is not true. The discretion to judge is still there. The Government has said that there will be a penalty if a person leaves his job for an unfounded reason. That situation has not changed. Even the honourable member for Corio would acknowledge that point. I would like him to get up and say that there should be no responsibility placed on a person who leaves his job, who walks out, and that the taxpayers should pay. I would like him to say that straight out, because that is what he is suggesting. He is saying that such people should bear no responsibility. The honourable member for Corio and the honourable member for Bonython brought forward the case of the young girl. Nobody could be more sympathetic to that situation than the members on this side of the House. There is now provision in the Act for that discretion to be exercised. Surely the honourable member for Corio is not suggesting that the people who make the decisions are not capable of making them. Is he saying that members of the Public Service in those very responsible positions are not capable or do not have the feelings to understand the situation and to judge it fairly? Who does he suggest should make that decision. Should a High Court judge make that decision? 
The honourable member should be reasonable. He is casting aspersions against the ability of the people that his Government probably put there in the first place. Let us understand the situation. There is a provision in the Act as it stands- it has not been altered- for discretion to be exercised as to whether a person is or is not entitled to receive the unemployment benefit. A decision having been reached- I would assume that it has been reached properly and fairly- that people who leave employment voluntarily are not entitled to unemployment benefit, the Government has laid down that they will not be paid unemployment benefit within a certain time. Surely people have a responsibility to accept that they have to work. Let me make it clear that if they decide that they do not want to work, if they walk out and say 'The taxpayers of Australia can care for us. We will go and lie on Bondi Beach', we do not consider that that is right. The people of Bendigo, Geelong, Corio, Melbourne and all over this country are satisfied that the situation has gone on for too long. It is about time that those people who have genuinely made up their minds that they do not want to work were not entitled to receive taxpayers' money in order to remain idle. That is a different ball game from what the honourable member has tried to suggest. He has suggested that the Government is saying that those who are genuinely unemployed should not receive unemployment benefit. That is utter rubbish and he knows it. I felt that that matter should be clearly spelt out. 
I must make a few comments on this Bill, particularly in relation to the remarks of the butcher from Parramatta- I am sorry, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)-  who was very quick to point out that butchers never avoid taxation. I am pleased to hear that. A couple of points should be drawn from his speech. The honourable member for Parramatta went on to say that this Government has brought in some imposing taxation that it is going to increase tremendously. He failed to mention, of course, how taxation had risen in 1975 and what it would be if we still had the infamous tax scales that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  introduced in 1975. The Australian Labor Party will be terribly shocked to find on 1 December that the take home pay of the very people whom they talk about representing but whom in fact we represent-the people who earn the money- has been increased. Their average weekly earnings will be increased considerably. This will be a terrible blow to honourable members opposite because they were not counting on the fact that this Government would cut taxes. The present Government is the only government since 1972 actually to cut taxes. Honourable members opposite will receive some more shocks before next year is out. 
Pin your ears back, as you have done. Do not let your ears flap. If you take your hands away from your ears they will flap. 
-You would take off if you did not stop your ears flapping. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I should, too. 
I will not take a great deal of the time of this chamber. I think it is important to make one or two comments. One has to wonder whether the two previous speakers from the Opposition, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  and the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin),  are in fact opposing the measures the Government is taking to try to overcome the problems of tax avoidance. 
From listening to the honourable member it was very difficult to tell. He said that we are not doing enough. The honourable member should be patient. I will answer him in a moment. The honourable member for Fremantle said that all tax avoidance virtually started with this Government. The honourable member for Werriwa, whom I thought to have more intelligence, supported that remark. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the shadow Minister for Finance who is sitting at the table, nodded his head very wisely and said: 'Of course, that is when it started '. I think two of those honourable members were members when  Mr Crean  was Treasurer. He was the first Labor Party Treasurer of three in three years. He stated that he wanted to do something about Curran-type schemes. That is remarkable seeing that the scheme was said not to have started until we came into power. But  Mr Crean  was going to do something about it. Two Treasurers later and three disastrous years later the Labor Party had done nothing. It had not done one little skerrick about tax avoidance. 
Labor members are supposed to be the champions of the little man. They did nothing at all. They supported the people using the scheme. They were probably getting some rake-off for their campaign funds. There is no doubt that the Labor Party did nothing. Its members had the gall to criticise this Government for being positive and doing something. I think it should be quite clearly noted in the books that under the Labor Party administration its first Treasurer, a man of great wisdom whom the Labor Party quickly sacked because he was a man of great wisdom, announced that something had to be done in regard to tax avoidance. But, typical of the Labor Party, it felt that it could not face up to the situation. It did nothing. Of course, the only thing it did in three years was destroy the economy of this country, create the greatest inflation of all time, lift unemployment to a level that had never been reached up to that time and created a five per cent increase in unemployment. 
The honourable member knows that it is true. He was one of the Ministers at the time who wasted money in the Northern Territory as though it was going out of fashion. The Labor Party was spending money as though it had no limit. Blank cheques went to everybody. That is the sort of government we have come to expect from the Opposition. There is no doubt about the measure - 
