I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1967 to provide exemption from sales tax for goods purchased by the AngloAustralian Telescope Board for its own use and not for sale. This Bill is a subsidiary measure to the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill 1970. Section 15 of that Bill proposes that the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board will not be subject to taxation under any law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth. 
However, section 15 will not exempt a taxpayer who sells goods to the Board from liability for sales tax on those goods. The amendment to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act to be effected by this Bill will ensure that tax is not payable either by the Board or by vendors on goods sold to the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board for its use and not for resale. By clause 2 of the Bill the amendment is effective from the day on which the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970 comes into operation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Stewart) adjourned. 
Let me assure the honourable member for Herbert that what is proposed for the Institute of Marine Science is that it should investigate from both the biological and the physical points of view alt aspects of marine science. It is true that in the first instance, situated as it will be in Townsville near tropical waters, its initial inquiries are likely to be directed specifically towards the Great Barrier Reef. However, ils charter will not be limited, and in fact it will be abl'e to consider all matters of marine science around Australia. It will, of course, be co-operating with other institutes - not only institutes in Australia but also top level institutes in other parts of the world. 
I move: 
Thatthe Bill  be now  read a  second  time. 
Early in 1967 the United Kingdom and Australian governments agreed to join together in the construction and subsequent operation of a large optical telescope to be located in Australia. The two governments decided that the telescope would have a nominal aperture of150 inches and that its specifications would.be based on the design adopted for a similar optical telescope which was to be constructed by the Kitt Peak National Observatory in Arizona in the United States of America. The Australian National University's Observatory at Siding Spring Mountain, near Coonabarabran in New South Wales, was chosen as the site for the instrument. 
Pending the conclusion of a formal agreement between the governments, a joint policy committee was established to initiate arrangements for the construction of the telescope and to supervise detailed design and subsequent manufacture and construction. This committee is made up of  Sir Richard  Woolley, the Astronomer Royal, Professor Fred Hoyle, Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy at Cambridge University, Professor Olin Eggen, Director of the Mount Stromlo Observatory, and  Dr E.  G. Bowen, Chief of the Radiophysics Division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, together with  Mr J.  F. Hosie of the Science Research Council in Britain and  Mr K.  N. Jones of the Department of Education and Science, Canberra. A small project office has been established in Canberra. Under the direction of the joint policy committee, this office is responsible for all phases of design, relations with consultants, tendering, contracts and general supervision. During this interim period the two governments have acted through the Science Research Council in London and the Department of Education and Science in Canberra. The Australian National University has cooperated in the project from its commencement. In additionto the provision of the site at the Siding Spring Observatory, the University has agreed to make available the whole range of its scientific and technical support facilities, both at Siding Spring and at Mount Stromlo. 
The manufacture, construction and running in of a large complicated optical telescope is a complex and. lengthy operation. A good deal of progress has been made. Detailed work on the project commenced in the latter half of 1967.. Construction is scheduled for completion in the first half of 1973 and alignment and testing of the instruments and associated facilities should be completed early in 1974. When the governments agreed to co-operate in this venture the estimated total cost of construction was approximately$11m. Today it is estimated that the partners will contribute approximately $11m on joint account and in addition the Australian National University will spend $1.8m on new and upgraded facilities at the Siding Spring site. Of the amount expended by the ANU, $850,000 will be a charge upon the joint project and will be repaid over a period of 20 years together with interest at the long term bond rate. Expenditure of nearly $2. 5m has already been incurred and commitments entered into for further expenditure of $1.8m. 
The House will be interested to hear of the major activities which have already been carried out. The primary mirror blank has been constructed by Owens-Illinois Incorporated of Toledo, Ohio, at a cost of close to $500,000. Earlier this year the primary mirror blank was delivered to  Sir Howard  Grubb Parsons and Company Limited of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England, for grinding and polishing and for incorporation, together with other optical components, in the telescope tube, which itself is to be constructed by Grubb Parsons. At the Siding Spring Observatory, water and electricity services and roads are being upgraded and expanded and additional lodge and housing accommodation provided. Preparatory site works and construction of ancillary buildings for the telescope itself are now in hand. A contract for the supply and erection of the telescope mounting is expected to be let in the very near future, and tenders for the building and dome will be called later in the year. 
In all of its activities, the joint policy committee has operated under the directive from the two governments that open tendering is to be used for all of the major components and that this work is to be available to any suitably qualified contractor from any part of the world. The arrangements arrived at between the two governments were incorporated in a formal agreement which was signed on 25th September 1969. It provides for the establishment of an Anglo-Australian Telescope Board to represent the two governments in the process of construction and subsequent operation of the telescope. The agreement contemplates the creation of that Board as a statutory authority under legislation of this Parliament. The present Bill, to which the text of the agreement is annexed, has been prepared accordingly. From a reading of the agreement and of the Bill, honourable members will see that the agreement spells out the arrangements made by the two governments for the construction and operation of the telescope and that the Bill itself deals primarily with the establishment of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board as a statutory authority, and with its relations with this Parliament. 
The Bill regulates the appointment of the Australian members to the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board and provides for the appropriation of moneys and their application by the Board. Provision is also made for audit of the Board's accounts and for the presentation of periodical reports and financial statements, ft will be noted that a pro vision of the Bill exempts the Board from taxation under any law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth. As a complementary measure, a Bill will be introduced to amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1967. When the telescope has been completed access to it will be shared equally by British and Australian astronomers, although there will be provision for each party to make available a portion of its time to other astronomers. In each country, arrangements will be made within the astronomical community for the consideration of requests for use of the telescope and the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board will be guided by this advice in the allocation of time on the telescope. 
Australia has an enviable reputation as a world leader in both optical and radio astronomy. The provision of these new facilities should enable us, in co-operation with our British partners, to develop that reputation further. We will be able to exploit the natural advantage which our geographical location gives us through the use of facilities which will be equal to those available anywhere else in the world. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall the Prime Minister's announcement last October of the Government's intention to establish an Institute of Marine Science at Townsville in Queensland. This Bill provides for the establishment of such an institute, to be known as the Australian Institute of Marine Science, and makes formal provision for the detailed planning of its functions and powers. 
Australia is excellently situated to make a significant contribution in the field of marine science. As an island continent, with a vast and varied coastline extending from the tropics far into the temperate zone, the opportunity for study, exploration, exploitation and conservation of our marine resources is large. Our shores are washed by no less than three of the great oceans - the Indian, Southern and Pacific Oceans - while the Great Barrier Reef and our extensive exposure to the Southern Ocean offer opportunities that are unique. While some valuable work in marine science is already being carried out in Australia, this is, in relation to the needs of Australia, too limited an effort. The Government has accordingly decided to establish the Australian Institute of Marine Science at 
Townsville to provide a national centre that will conduct research itself and give encouragement to valuable studies conducted elsewhere. 
The Institute should become a centre of excellence and earn for- itself and Australia a world reputation in the field of marine science. As the Bill provides, the Institute will be concerned with both biological and physical aspects of marine science and the reference in clause 7 (2.) of the Bill to certain specific matters will not limit the Institute's activities. I would expect the work and interests of the Institute to extend, as time goes on, over a very wide range of possibilities - for example, the study of the geology of the sea floor; the potential of the sea as a source of food and pharmacological products; the need for and means of conserving our marine environment; the effect upon that environment of the activities of man, in his attempts to win new treasures from the sea, and of predators, among which 1 would anticipate that the crown of thorns starfish would be a continuing subject of study until the problems it has created may have been solved. 
Honourable members will note that the Bill provides for the appointment of an Interim Council to make recommendations on the functions and powers of the Institute and it is my intention to appoint  Dr M.  F. Day of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation as  Chairman  and the following scientists as members of the Interim Council: Professor C. Burdon-Jones of the University College of Townsville;  Dr N.  H. Fisher of the Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral Resources; Professor Dorothy Hill, Department of Geology and Mineralogy, University of Queensland;  Mr Walter  Ives, Secretary of the Department of Primary Industry;  Mr D.  F. McMichael, Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service in the State of New South Wales; and Professor R. J. Walsh, representing the Australian Academy of Science. 
As soon as the Interim Council has completed its work, I shall place its recommendations -before the Government so that a further Bill may be introduced prescribing in detail the functions and powers of the 
Institute and its constitution. I have great pleasure in commending this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Universities (Financial Assistance) Act 1966- 1969, which appropriated Commonwealth grants to the States in connection with universities during the 1967-69 triennium, made provision for building programmes at universities including student residences. A condition of the payment of the grants in respect of student residences was that the Commonwealth grant would be limited to a matching of actual expenditure from State funds during the triennium; that is, up to 31st December 1969. 
In respect of two halls of residence - the Women's Hall of Residence at the University of Tasmania and a hall of residence to be known as Roberts Hall at Monash University - unavoidable delays in planning meant that the amounts of State funds expended on these projects up to 31st December 1969 were insufficient to attract the full Commonwealth grant. In each case, the State government is prepared to continue with its matching expenditure up to an amount not exceeding the amount planned for the 1967-69 triennium and the Commonwealth Government has therefore decided to introduce this Bill to provide authority for the payment of appropriate balances of the Commonwealth grants that were provided for the triennium 1967- 69. The amounts involved are $47,241 in respect of the Women's Hall of Residence at the University of Tasmania and $454,930 in respect of Roberts Hail at Monash University. The Bill therefore provides for the completion of the capital programme for student residences that was planned for the triennium 1967-69. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
The Department is engaged in Project SCORE. It is difficult to say precisely when U might be completed: it is in its early stages, lt would certainly not be completed this year and could take 2 years. We are pinpointing the research done firstly in Commonwealth departments, then in State departments, then in universities and colleges of advanced education, then in mining and manufacturing industries and other businesses and finally in nonprofit organisations. Each one of these fields presents its own problems. A questionnaire was finally settled and was sent to all Commonwealth departments in January. We are expecting replies in April. I do not have the date in my mind, but I think the departments were asked to reply by 3rd April. The Prime Minister has obtained the cooperation of the Premiers in pinpointing research expenditures in the States. He asked them to nominate Ministers with whom I could deal and who would be interested in research. They have nominated Ministers, and these number SO. It is necessary to establish the form of the questionnaire which will be geared to produce the answers from the various State departments. We are presently engaged in that exercise. 
We have conferred with the universities on the best procedure for obtaining figures from them, and we have decided on a provisional form of questionnaire. Pilot projects are being conducted in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne, and depending on the success of these pilot projects we finally will determine the form of questionnaire for universities and we will proceed wilh them. In regard to colleges of advanced education, we will take the advice of State Ministers. The Department of Trade and Industry and my Department have been conferring closely with the Manufacturing Advisory Council, which has a technology sub-committee, on the most appropriate form of questionnaire for the business community and we are pinpointing the actual business concerns to which the questionnaires will be directed. Both of these are fairly major tasks. Work on them is in progress but they have not yet been completed. A similar type of activity is proceeding in relation to other kinds of businesses and non-profit organisations. We are still endeavouring to identify and list the non-profit organisations. It is a very complex exercise which we hope will produce very valuable information for Australia on what we are doing in the field of research. But it will take a considerable time to complete this exercise. 
-I am not familiar with this particular case but I can assure the honourable member that this, and a very large number of cases of this type, are considered very carefully. I certainly shall look into the particular case he has mentioned and give him written advice. 
It is the fact that CSIRO has been experimenting in this field and has had some remarkably good results in producing compounds which are comparable in their effect on insect pests with DDT but which do not have some of the disadvantages of DDT. They are not noxious to animals and so on. However, it is necessary to make much more detailed tests with the use of these compounds before they could possibly be put into commercial use. These tests are proceeding. As to whether there would be any legislation regarding the use of DDT, this would not be a matter falling within my portfolio. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Education Council, made up of the State Ministers for Education, met in Perth on 23 and 24 February 1970. The principal item of business was to review progress in the Nationwide Survey of Educational Needs at the primary and secondary level and in teacher education. I was present during part of the conference. 
The State Ministers and I agreed to set up a working party of departmental officers to review the material produced for each State and the two mainland territories and to present a co-ordinated report to a special meeting of Ministers to take place before the end of May 1970. The State Ministers indicated that they would seek special financial assistance from the Commonwealth in the financial year 1970-71. 
, (4) and (5) The statement issued after the meeting reflected the view of all State Ministers that much more money would be needed over the five years 1970-75, in addition to funds likely to be available to them, to meet their priority needs. The determination of priorities for the further expansion of education services in each State is a matter for the Government of that State and it is for the Commonwealth to determine priorities in respect of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
The Commonwealth Government is committed to a special programme to assist migrant children in schools who have difficulty with the English language and details of this will be announced shortly. When the Commonwealth and State Ministers of Education have considered the results of the Nation-wide Survey of Educational Needs, Commonwealth and State Governments will determine the action they will take to improve the standards of education in all schools. 
-I think the interest of the Government in pre-school education is evidenced by its action in the area where this matter is the Government's particular responsibility. I refer to the position in the Australian Capital Territory where there are good pre-school centres. The State Governments have in the main left the matter of pre-school education to private organisations and have established a pattern of paying subsidies to these organisations. This pattern varies from State to State, but that is what happens in New South Wales. The New South Wales Government, instead of having pre-school education in its education system, has given a subsidy to support private organisations undertaking pre-school training. In view of the increasing recognition of the value of pre-school training, the Commonwealth Government consulted with the States on their needs in this area. They told us that the main priority was the training of teachers to act in pre-school centres. As a result, as honourable members will be aware, in the last Budget we provided  $2im  for the erection of colleges for training pre-school teachers. 
The honourable member referred to the recurrent costs, such as salaries of teachers, the provision of facilities and their maintenance. At the moment these costs would have to be met by the States. Of course, I conferred with the State Ministers in Perth in February on this matter but their main concern was with expenditure in the areas of primary and secondary education. A matter of priorities is involved, and at the moment the priorities of the States are directed towards those two areas. 
In education we work towards goals which we think are good and as we get towards reaching them we move the goals further forward. All experience in education in countries which are moving and are not static shows this, so that at any given point of time it is always possible to say that in particular areas of education in the community the standards are not as high as would be desired. I think this is the position in some areas in Australia. However I do not think we should forget the speed of progress over the last 10 years or less. Just to take one instance, in New South Wales, in 1960 there were 166 State high schools. This was the achievement after 100 years. There are now 278, or 112 more in the short period since 1960. This picture is repeated in Victoria and in other parts of Australia and should not be forgotten. 
Both the Commonwealth and State governments are conscious of the need to determine and identify areas where improvement is required and it is to this end that the survey to which the honourable member referred has been conducted. This survey, conducted by the States, is to determine the needs for the next 5 years in primary and secondard education and in teacher training. 
Not in pre-school. This was not part of the terms of reference. The Australian Education Council met on 23rd and 24th February in Perth. I was invited to attend the meeting for part of the time. A progress report was then presented about the needs for the next 5 years. What was done was that a working party, which now includes my officers as well as State officers, was appointed to go further into this matter, particularly with reference to uniformity of interpretation in applying the terms of reference to the needs of the various States and questions of priority, and to report again to the Ministers, including myself, towards the end of May. At that time it ought to be possible to say more on the results of the survey. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this Bill is to bring about progressively the use of the metric system of measurement in Australia as the sole system of measurement of physical quantities, and to this end to establish a Metric Conversion Board which will be responsible for facilitating and planning the conversion from the Imperial system of measurement to the metric system of measurement. A public announcement of the Government's intention that Australian would convert to the metric system of measurement as soon as possible was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  on 19th January 1970. The Government's decision was taken having regard to extensive enquiries throughout the community made by the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures and on the advice of Commonwealth departments. 
Honourable members will recall that the Senate Select Committee was appointed in April 1967, under the chairmanship of the late  Senator K.  A. Laught, to inquire into and determine the practicability of the early adoption by Australia of the metric system of weights and measures. The Senate Select Committee made extensive inquiries and took evidence very widely. It held meetings in all capital cities, evidence was heard from 141 witnesses, and in addition written submissions were received from 54 persons and organisations. 
The Report of the Senate Select Committee was presented in the Senate in May 1968. Its contents were debated and the Report noted by the Senate on 27th August 1 968. The Committee reported: 
Following a full inquiry and a thorough examination of the evidence and other matter placed before it the Committee is of the unanimous opinion that it is practicable and desirable for Australia to adopt the metric system of weights and measures at an early date and recommends accordingly, and: 
Submissions to the Committee from individual citizens, Commonwealth Ministers and Departments, State Governments and Departments, Commonwealth and State instrumentalities, and organisations, overwhelmingly supported an early change to the sole use of the metric system and clearly indicated that there would be no insuperable difficulties in effecting such a change. 
The Government believes that the whole community will, in the long run, benefit from conversion. It should enhance our ability to export; increase efficiency in operations involving weighing and measuring; simplify and unify the teaching of mathematics and science; and provide an opportunity to rationalise and modernise industrial practices and reduce diversification in manufactured products. 
Conversion will, of course, have its problems, some of which may be considerable, but these should relate solely to the period of transition and should disappear once conversion has been completed. There will be a need in the course of conversion for training in and familiarisation with the metric system. In-service training arrangements will be required in industry, for school teachers, and in many other areas, and there will have to be programmes for education of the public. Some wastage, inefficiency, double stocking of goods and accelerated obsolescence of equipment will inevitably occur during conversion, but these transitional problems can be greatly reduced by careful planning. 
In some sectors it will be necessary to permit the use of non-metric units for an extended period, perhaps even indefinitely. 
Such might be the case where international standards apply, as for example, in civil aviation. No meaningful estimates have been made of the costs and benefits which will result from the adoption of the metric system, but the Government is in no doubt that the ultimate benefits will greatly exceed the costs of conversion which in many cases also can be considerably reduced by forethought and careful planning. The adoption of an overall conversion period of about 10 years will allow advantage to be taken in many sectors of natural obsolescence and depreciation. In the light of these considerations it is intended that, in general, the costs of conversion should, as for instance in the United Kingdom, lie where they fall. There may be special circumstances in which some compensation might be paid, and the Government will be prepared to consider these on the recommendation of the Metric Conversion Board. 
The Government's decision to convert to the metric system has been taken against the background of a world-wide movement towards the use of that system. Over 90% of the world's population lives in countries using the metric system, and countries which in recent times have either launched conversion programmes or announced their intention to convert to its use. include the United Kingdom, South Africa, Pakistan, Eire, New Zealand and Canada. The only major country which has not declared itself on this issue is the United States of America, and there an official study regarding increased metric utilisation is in fact in progress. The system to which the countries mentioned are converting is that known as the International System of Units - 'S.I.' as it is commonly known - which is denned and controlled by international agreement already accepted in Australia. It will be S.I. units, at least predominantly, to which Australia will change. The metric system of measurement, of course, is not new to Australia. The Weights and Measures (National Standards) Regulations 1961 made metric units legal in addition to the customary units based on the foot, the pound and the gallon, and metric units are already in wide use in Australia in, for instance, pharmacy, electronics, the chemical and photographic industries, national mapping and, of course, in education. 
Unlike decimal currency conversion, metric conversion will extend over a number of years with no single 'M' day. For the different sectors of industry, of commerce and of education it will actively commence at different times and proceed at different rates. This will necessitate the adoption of an overall programme and the co-ordination of the programmes for the individual sectors. The Bill provides for a Metric Conversion Board which will be required, inter alia, to advise regarding the conversion programmes and generally to plan, guide and facilitate their implementation. It is intended that this should be on the basis of full and detailed discussion with interested parties in the various sectors. The aim will be to effect conversion as a whole to the best advantage of the community, and it is expected the Board will make extensive use of advisory committees, each concerned with conversion in a particular sector of the community. As already indicated, the Board will be required to investigate and report to the Minister on any special circumstances in which the payment of compensation may be appropriate, although as I indicated the general rule will be that no compensation will be payable. It will also be required to advise on the need for legislation to give effect lo conversion, to report attempts to take unfair advantage of the public in the course of conversion, and to perform various other functions appropriate to conversion, lt is not, in general, the Government's intention to tie the composition of the Board to representation of specific interests - for it would be impossible to represent on one Board all the major interests concerned with metric conversion - but it will be the ann or the Government to appoint to the Board those it considers best able, by virtue of experience and ability, to contribute to its work and to assist in the activities of its committees. I would stress that the keynote of the Board's activities will be full and detailed consultation with interests in each sector prior to and throughout conversion. 
This Bill is the first of a number of legislative and administrative steps which will be needed to facilitate and encourage orderly and efficient conversion to the metric system. I would stress, however, that conversion cannot be implemented by such actions, for this must be effected in the main by detailed planning and action at all the levels and in all the places where changes will need to be made, and this means throughout the whole community. The Government is convinced that conversion is not only in the best interests of the community but that there is overwhelming support for the change. Many organisations, establishments and individuals have indicated their keenness to get on with conversion in relation to their own activities as speedily as possible. The Government will do all in its power to help and guide them in doing this and looks forward with confidence to co-operation in all sectors and at all levels of the community in bringing the change about wilh the minimum of difficulty and inconvenience. 
I would hope that all those concerned with the change will start thinking soon, if they are not already doing so, about how they will implement it, but will not, I hope, act so precipitately as to compromise the actions of others. State Governments will, of course, be involved in conversion in many and various ways and a meeting with representative Ministers to discuss the bases for mutual co-operation in this matter will be convened shortly. I believe the decision to convert to the metric system of measurement constitutes an important step forward in Australia's development. It has been taken in the firm belief that the long-term benefits that will accrue to the nation will greatly outweigh any disadvantages that may be suffered during the period of transition. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to put into effect the Government's promise to extend the present programme of assistance to teachers' colleges with a further $30m in the form of unmatched grants to the Stales. The Bill provides for expenditure of up to $30m spread over the 3 financial years starting 1st July 1970 under the same arrangements as are provided under the existing legislation. The wording of the Bill is, accordingly, substantially the same as the wording of the Act for the current period. Payments will be made to the States in respect of college projects which are selected by the States, to be erected on sites selected by the States, and in accordance with plans and standards drawn up by the States and approved by the Minister. A schedule showing projects proposed by the States is attached to the copy of this second reading speech which is circulated to honourable members. All of the money is going to State Education Department colleges but at least 10% of the places attributable to the expenditure of these grants will be made available to students not bonded to State Education Departments. Winners of Commonwealth advanced education scholarships and university scholarships may apply their scholarships to courses at these colleges. These arrangements provide reasonable opportunities for those students who wish to move directly from college to teach in non-government schools provided, of course, that they meet the other normal entrance requirements. 
I draw the attention of the House to provisions of the Bill which show changes from the existing legislation. Firstly, the total amount available for the triennium has been raised from $24m to (30m. This increase is designed to assist the States with their teacher education programmes at a realistic and reasonable level and was determined in the light of current experience and knowledge of building costs. Secondly, the preliminary distribution of the $30m among the States has been determined as set out in the Schedule to the Bill. While the Bill makes provision for this distribution to be varied, I am pleased to say that the tentative programmes have already been developed to the stage where significant variations are unlikely. The amounts set out in the Schedule to the Bill were determined after due consideration of the many important factors involved. These factors include the population of each State and the amount available to each State in the current triennium. Another major factor is the amount of matched assistance that New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania are receiving for teacher education in Colleges of Advanced Education. The overriding considerations however have been the needs of the States and the expected effectiveness of the grants in meeting those needs. Thirdly, the amount available in each of the first 2 years has been set at Slim. This is calculated to enable the State programmes to proceed without undue financial delays and at the same time to avoid excessive fluctuations in both Commonwealth expenditure and State building activities. The expected rate of progress in the first year of the next triennium will be greater than in the current triennium because the States have planned ahead and will be able to use the grants as soon as they become available. 
The need to improve the quality of the teaching force is central to the task of improving the quality of education generally and these grants will enable the States to provide new and replacement teacher education facilities at a better standard and a good deal earlier than they could hope to do from their own resources. This, of course, is not the only Commonwealth assistance in this field of education. Over 40% of government teacher trainees are in universities and the Commonwealth shares fully in the cost, both capital and recurrent, of their education. Furthermore, the Commonwealth is now supporting teacher education in Colleges of Advanced Education - for this triennium, in New South Wales, Queensland, arid Tasmania. There can be no doubt of the pressing need to increase substantially the number of places available to educate teachers for both government and independent schools. Rising enrolments, increasing retention rates at the secondary level, a progressive change from 2 to 3 year courses for primary teachers and a steady reduction in the pupil-teacher ratios all add to this need. The grants proposed in this Bill will make a significant contribution towards meeting it. I: commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 
-I think it will be some time yet before these figures are available. The Leader of the Opposition will understand that many applicants for scholarships apply for different types of scholarships and many applicants seek enrolment at more than one university and perhaps also at a college of advanced education. So those who are not enrolled at a particular institution are not necessarily 100% genuine applicants. It is necessary to screen the figures in order to obtain an accurate result. In addition, the figures are still altering for the current year. I think it will be some time before final figures are available so that I may answer certain questions which are on the notice paper. 
by leave - I wish to give the House some details of further assistance to be provided by the Commonwealth for educational research. The provision of $250,000 in the 1970-71 Budget was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech before the 1'969 House of Representatives election. This provision is another active step by the Commonwealth designed to improve the quality of Australian education and thereby to advance the development of our society. At present the Commonwealth is providing support for educational research in a number of ways. The Australian Research Grants Committee has, since its inception, recommended for support selected educational research projects. During this year, for example, grants totalling $80,000 will be made for educational research under this scheme as compared with 332,000 in 1969. Direct Commonwealth assistance for educational research is also provided in the annual grant to the Australian Council for Educational Research and in the sum of $250,000 which has been made available during the 1967-1969 and the 1970-1972 triennia under the advanced education programme for research into the problems of colleges of advanced education. 
The Commonwealth also is providing assistance in other ways, for example, through the special grants for research and research training included in the programme of assistance for universities. In addition there is the support given to individual projects which are concerned with curriculum developments. The Australian Science Education Project is one such development - this is a joint 6 State and Commonwealth programme of research into the development of improved courses and materials for the teaching of science in the first 4 years of our secondary schools. A further research project currently supported by the Commonwealth is an investigation into possible new methods of selection for tertiary studies - in the previous 2 years the Australian National University, the University of Western Australia and The Tasmanian Education Department have been involved with the Commonwealth in this project and in this year it is likely that all Slates will be so involved. 
Much is thus being done to support educational research throughout Australia. Nevertheless it became apparent from the number and type of requests for support which were being made to us that there were problems requiring research in Australia which called for additional measures of support. So that we could obtain a more informed assessment of these problems, and of the ways in which they might be solved, a meeting was held in Canberra during September last year. This meeting was attended by a number of Australian educationists from various spheres of interest who met at the request of my predecessor to discuss the general status of educational research in Australia. It was a useful meeting. 
The report of the discussions which took place at that meeting drew attention to a number of specific points. It stressed that problems of communication, co-ordination and identification of areas of national importance in educational research exist al all levels of education. The report stated that such work as was in progress consisted for the most part of small projects and that comparatively little was being done in priority areas. Projects and experiments of a similar character were apparently being carried out often independently of each other. Hence the establishment of effective means of communication of research findings and of research in progress was seen by that meeting as one of the necessary prerequisites to any effective expansion of educational research. The provision of $250,000 in the 1970-71 Budget pursuant to the Prime Minister's promise in the policy speech will ensure these problems are tackled. 
I propose to establish a body, to be known as the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education, to advise me on the ways in which this money should be distributed. With the concurrence of the House, which I shall seek at the close of this statement, I will have incorporated in 'Hansard' the terms of reference of this Committee. There are several aspects of its terms of reference which I would like to mention briefly. The Advisory Committee may, itself, propose support for research in areas of importance where little is being done. Equally the Committee may recommend for support projects which are submitted to it for consideration. There will also be an opportunity for the Committee to make a contribution towards measures for the training of research personnel. The Committee will be free to give consideration to proposals submitted from government bodies, such as State education departments, as well as from institutions. Projects will be assessed iri terms of their quality and the contribution they will make to priority needs. 
I would like to add a few remarks on the significance of the development aspects of this programme. If maximum use is to be made of available resources, it is important that attention should also be directed to the application of findings and some emphasis will, therefore, be given to interpreting and disseminating the results of research in such a way that they can be readily applied to practical situations. I am pleased to be able to announce that Professor P. H. Partridge of the Australian National University has accepted an invitation to become the Committee's first  Chairman.  The membership of the Committee will be finalised in the near future and 1 hope to introduce a Bill later in this session to provide a basis for the operation of the programme. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in 'Hansard' the terms of reference of that Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the course of this investigation data on total expenditure on pre-school education was not available in sufficient detail to enable valid comparisons to be made between Australia and overseas countries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The previous question referred to by the honourable member related to pupil-teacher ratios and not to size of classes. It was not possible to show separate pupil-teacher ratios for primary and secondary grades in non-government schools because separate details of the numbers of teachers in those schools teaching primary and secondary grades are not available. Only statistics of total teachers in non-government schools are at present available. 
Pre-school Education: Expenditure  (Question No. 103) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2). Invitations by State Ministers were extended to the following Catholic and other independent school authorities on the dates shown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not changed its attitude to the setting up of a commission since my predecessor's reply to Question No. 438 of 24 September 1968 (Hansard, page 1427). 
The State Ministers are al present sponsoring a nation-wide survey of educational needs covering both the Government and non-Government sectors and teacher training. As already indicated, the Commonwealth Government is co-operating fully in this survey. 
Commonwealth Scholarships (Question No. 245) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The competition for Commonwealth University scholarships depends upon the number of awards available, the size of the competing group and the distribution of marks in the selection examinations. There is no means of giving a comparable statement of the position in each State" since there are variations between the States in the number of subjects on which selection is based, in the number of candidates competing for awards and the number of awards available. For the same reasons a meaningful statement of this type sought by the honourable member cannot be made about Commonwealth Advanced Education and Commonwealth Secondary scholarships. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics are not kept of the numbers of children in schools who do not speak English as their mother tongue. However, the following figures from a recent survey conducted in N.S.W. and the A.C.T. may be of value. This survey concerned school children of migrant origin, not including those from English-speaking countries or Asians. Figures given in this survey indicated that in August 1968 just over 5% of all children enrolled in N.S.W. schools were of migrant origin. The corresponding figure for the A.C.T. was a little under 7%. Figures for government and nongovernment schools were not available for N.S.W. and the A.C.T. separately. However, for the 2 areas combined, the percentage of migrants in government schools was approximately 5, while in non-government schools it was approximately 6. No separate figure for Catholic schools is known. 
 The' answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total amount of Commonwealth and State funds made available for educational research in each of the past S years is not available. In many significant areas of educational expenditure no dissection has been available of funds allocated specifically to research. My Department is, however, currently engaged in a survey of expenditure on research and development throughout Australia, in both the -natural and social sciences. This project, known as 'Project SCORE' is directed towards obtaining the type of information sought by the honourable member. However, because of the scope and complexity of the survey which is now in progress, results will not be available for some. time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This information is not available. However, details of the total numbers in categories (a) and (b) for 1968 are contained in statistical bulletin Colleges of Advanced Education and Teachers Colleges' published recently by the Commonwealth Statistician. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of any estimates of the annual economic benefits to Australia from scientific research financed by the Commonwealth. lt is extremely difficult to quantify such benefits because it is only rarely that sufficient information is available to permit a cost-benefit analysis of even a single project to be undertaken. This is because the results of research may take many years to make an economic impact, the benefits are likely to be diffused throughout the economy, and the full economic impact of a given discovery can be related to the extent to which this is exploited in the process of commercial innovation. 
At present there are no comprehensive figures available for the Commonwealth's annual expenditure on research. My Department is, however, in the process of undertaking a comprehensive survey (Project SCORE) of research and development expenditures and sources of funds. This survey will cover all sectors of the economy. I outlined the current status of Project SCORE in my reply to a question without notice asked in the House on 11th March 1970 which is given on page 272 of the Hansard of that date. It is expected that the analysis of the data for the Commonwealth sector will commence later in the year. When this analysis has been completed figures will be available for, inter alia, the Commonwealth's expenditure in the 1968-69 financial year on research and development conducted by its own departments and instrumentalities, and in support of research conducted by other institutions. 
For the purpose of making international comparisons, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has developed standard conventions for compiling details of national research expenditures. Under these conventions the government' sector includes both Central and State Government organisations but excludes nationalised industries and government-owned business enterprises. It will, therefore, not bc possible to make valid comparisons of research expenditure in the government sector in Australia with that in countries which have published figures based on the O.E.C.D. conventions until such time as figures are available for both the Commonwealth and the States, and appropriate adjustments are made in accordance with international practice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth funds were made available to Victoria under the States Grunts (Teachers' Colleges) Act 1967 amounting to $5.35 million. The approved projects were: 
Secondary Teachers' College - Extensions 
Coburg Teachers' College - Extensions 
Burwood Teachers' College - Extensions 
Technical Teachers' College - Extensions 
The honourable member will recall that on 19 March 1970I introduced the Slates Grants (Teachers' Colleges) Bill 1970 proposing a further $9.5 million for teachers' colleges projects in Victoria for thetriennium 1970-1973. 
The conditions applying to these grants are set out in detail in the States Grant (Teachers' Colleges) Act 1967 and similar conditions are proposed in the States Grants (Teachers' Colleges) Bill 1970. Briefly they are: 
The money allocated by the Commonwealth must be spent on Teachers' Colleges. 
The particular projects must be approved by mc. 
10% of student places which become available as a result of Commonwealth expenditure should be open to students not bonded to the State Education Department. 
The Commonwealth employs a consultant to ensure that buildings and facilities proposed by the States teachers' colleges are of an appropriate standard. All projects are carefully examined by the consultant who then makes a recommendation to me. 
and (5) I do not have the information requested about Geelong Teachers' College and suggest that the honourable member take the points up with the Victorian Government. In determining the projects to which Commonwealth funds will be allocated I am guided by the priorities proposed by the States. 
Soil Pollution by Herbicides  (Question No. 497) 
en -  The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Student enrolments in schools of engineering for 1965 and 1967-72 in colleges of advanced education, which includes institutes of technology, are given in the First and Second Reports of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education; these enrolment details comprise actual and estimated numbers. For the years up to and including 1969 no information additional to that appearing in the Reports is available. The actual enrolments for 1970 are not available at this stage as returns have not yet been received from the colleges but this will be supplied when available. 
Concerning the number of qualified applicants and quotas for engineering courses, some limited information of this nature has been provided in the past by State authorities for the Committee and it is expected that a list of courses which have operative quotas can be supplied to you later this year. However, information beyond this is given to the Committee on the understanding that it is for ils use in planning and is not for general release. In the circumstances I suggest that the question may more properly be directed to the appropriate State authorities. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) For some years the school systems of all States have been faced with rapid increases in enrolments. During the past decade primary enrolments in government schools have increased by 50% while secondary enrolments have increased by 150%. These increased numbers have placed a substantial burden on available resourses and both State and Commonwealth governments have made considerable efforts to cope with pressures on State education systems. State governments have devoted increasing proportions of their budgets to education while each year the Commonwealth has increased its special purpose educational grants to the States. There is no evidence available to me to suggest that efforts in South Australia have fallen behind those of other States. 
Any requests for further Commonwealth asis t a ncc to the education system of any particular 
State will be considered in the light of the results of the Survey of the Needs of Government and Non-government schools in all States and Territories now being completed under the sponsorship of the Australian Education Council. It is important to note also that the whole question of Commonwealth-State financial relations is under review. As you will know the matter was discussed at a Premiers' Conference on 26 February last and further consideration is now being given to the arrangements which will operate afterthe present programme of Commonwealth financial assistance grunts to the States is completed in. June 1970. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No statistics of the numbers of students who have obtained either a Commonwealth University scholarship or a Commonwealth Advanced Education scholarship after repeating the final year of secondary schooling are available. 
Schools of Engineering: Enrolments (Question No. 341)  Mr Reynolds  asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many qualified applicants have (a) sought entry and (b) been admitted into the schools of engineering in each of the institutes of technology and colleges of advanced education in Australia in each of the last 5 years, or, where more recently established, in each of the years of existence. 
What quotas have' been applied in each instance. 
The honourable member will know the aid that is given to independent schools is by way of grants under section 96 of the Constitution and these grants are given by the Commonwealth to State governments upon condition that they apply them towards the schools in the way mentioned. At present the various State governments are accepting the grants on these conditions but if the Victorian people elected a government which had the policy reported as being that of the State executive of the Australian Labor Party against State aid it would be within its rights to refuse to accept the grants! 
The advice of the Australian Universities Commission is sought in connection with the establishment of new universities. The proposal for the establishment of a university at Albury is a very old one, as the Leader of the Opposition well knows, and has been the subject of debate over a number of years. I know of no recent consultation between the Victorian and New South Wales governments to establish any joint university at that centre. I W li make some inquiries about the matter and if anything further emerges 1 will advise the honourable gentleman. 
As is implicit in the question, the honourable member appreciates that the question of fees is essentially a matter for the universities, which we hope to keep as autonomous bodies - at least, this government does. Of  coarse,  the State governments contribute very substantially to the running costs of the universities, as does the Commonwealth Government. The honourable member will appreciate that the Commonwealth Government contributes $1 for every $1.85 which is contributed by the States. It is true that in calculating the contribution ot a State there is a credit for the amount recovered in fees. To this extent it might be said that the States have some interest in the level of fees because it follows that the higher the revenue from fees the smaller is the direct contribution from the States, lt also follows that the Commonwealth's contribution would be greater because it pays by way of scholarships about one-half of the fees. 
What date is that? 
So there is no doubt that there was a commitment. Later  Mr Griffith  said: 
. we had in mind that you would be very anxious, to meet with us as soon as you could after we had preferred the suggestion to you and that it could he before Christmas. 
The transcript continues: 
MB FAIRBAIRN- This is going to be a very difficult timetable to get anything to Cabinet which will not be announced until, 1 think, the 24lh November. So a day or two after that would be better. 
-I did see the correspondence in the newspaper and the prior article as well as a statement by the  President  of the Students Representative Council suggesting that the Government had rejected completely out of hand a request for an increase in student representation. This is not quite a correct statement of the position. A large number of suggested amendments to the statute of the University were put forward to the Government by the Council of the University. I restrict my remarks to those dealing with student representation. In the result, the Government decided to bring before the Parliament amendments which would liberalise the conditions on which undergraduate students could go on to the Council, and to increase the representation. In particular it was decided to reduce the age of a person eligible to sit on the Council from 21 years, as it is at present, to 18 years and also to eliminate another existing requirement, namely, that a representative of the undergraduates should himself be a graduate. This will permit undergraduates to sit on the Council. It was decided also to increase the student representation by appointing the  President  of the Students Representative Council ex-officio to the Council of the University in addition to the existing elected member that the students have. This means that they would have 2 representatives. 
It is true that in the recommendations of the Council there was a suggestion for a further elected member. This would have made a total of 3. That recommendation was not accepted by the Government. On the other hand, I would point out that in a Council which, if these amendments are accepted, will number 41 people there is no question of voting blocs or anything of that kind. I suggest that the strength of representation will depend upon the calibre and quality of the representatives of the undergraduates. I have no reason to suppose that they will not be very strongly and well represented. 
We have listened to the usual exaggerated language from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). His  speech, of course, was based upon the assumption that the undertaking was in fact given and he proceeded from there with his usual kind of slightly inaccurate diatribe that we have become accustomed to in this House. Of course, one would expect him to endeavour to screw the maximum political advantage for his Party out of this matter. But I think the House is entitled to a more objective debate on a matter of this kind. It is true that I was present at the meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers on 26th September 1969 in my then capacity of Attorney-General. To this meeting the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  has asserted he gave an undertaking on behalf of the Commonwealth. He now claims that that undertaking has been dishonoured. I think the House is entitled to know my view, as one present at that meeting, as to whether such an undertaking was given. I want to say at once that 1 do not believe it was. Not only was it not my impression, but I have read and reread, with anxious care, the transcript record of what was said at that meeting and I cannot find anywhere in it any such undertaking. 
It is. of course, clear that if a Commonwealth Minister dealing with State Ministers does give an undertaking on behalf of the Commonwealth within the scope of his portfolio, then the Government is bound to honour it, I do not think any Minister or any member of this Parliament would dispute that position. And of course, it is not a question of whether there is an agreement which is enforceable in the courts.That does not arise in that type of case. It is simply a question of honourable dealing between governments. So we come down to the real question - and really the only question in debate here - which is whether in fact such an undertaking was given. What is it that the honourable member for Farrer asserts as the undertaking? He says that at this meeting on 26th September 1969 - and I quote from his statement as reported at page 1897 of Hansard of 8th May 1970- he undertook that: 
. before the Commonwealth took any action there would be further consultation with the States. 
Since this matter has been raised, as I have said, I have been through the transcript to find any such undertaking, and I can find nothing in the record which could be read that way. I am not speaking in any narrow sense; I am not looking for precise words or anything of that kind. I cannot find anything in the record of that meeting, nor can I recall anything which in the circumstances and in the context in which we were talking could fairly be interpreted as giving any such undertaking. Honourable members must accept that that is my recollection and my considered view. Of course, I do not know what was in the mind of the honourable member for Farrer at the time, and I do not question that he now honestly holds the belief that he did give such an undertaking. That is apparent, I think, to all who know him. But I can say only that I myself know of nothing in the objective facts and in the record which would support that view. Indeed, quite apart from the fact that there is nothing in the record which would support that view, there arc a number of indications in the facts which point in the other direction. 
Honourable members have heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  record the history, to some degree, of this matter. There was the meeting of 3rd March 1969 which I did not attend but of which I have read the transcript. At that meeting the honourable member for Farrer, then the Minister for National Development, presented a written statement which is in the papers tabled, in which it was made quite clear, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, that the Commonwealth proposed to legislate, and discussion was to take place with the States on what would flow from that. At page 3 of the statement which he issued to that meeting, the honourable member for Farrer stated: 
As (o off-shore minerals other than petroleum, the Commonwealth is of the view that it should proceed on the footing that it enjoys total rights outside the 3 mile limit. It proposes to legislate in pursuance of this position. 
He later said - and I quote from lower down on page 3 of his statement: 
However, as in petroleum, we feel that it would bc a pity to have separate administrations over territorial seabed and the outer continental shelf. We would hope that the States would be willing to administer the area beyond 3 miles from low water mark on behalf of  the  Commonwealth and that this administration might run concurrently with identical State legislation operating in the area from low water mark to the 3 mile limit. The competence and expertise of the State Mines Departments and their officers would be of considerable help in this matter. 
He later went on to discuss the question of royalties. But the proposal put then was that the Commonwealth had decided to legislate outside the 3 mile limit. It was prepared, if the States legislated from low water mark to the 3 mile limit, to discuss the question of a regime for the administration of off-shore exploration for minerals other than petroleum, and this might take the form of a designated authority who might be a State officer deriving authority from both sets of legislation. The then Minister for National Development also said that royalties would be a matter for discussion, as with oil. The States took away that statement from the meeting of 3rd March 1969, and when they returned to the meeting of 26th September 1969, the first thing that occurred at the meeting, as honourable members will see from the transcript, was that they announced that the whole position which had been put in the statement on 3rd March was unacceptable to them. They used some quite strong language about it. They were shocked. It was unacceptable to them. The second point which they made was that they asked whether the Minister would take back to Federal Cabinet a proposal by them, a counter suggestion by them, that similar legislation should be passed by the Commonwealth and State Governments for exploration on off-shore minerals other than petroleum as had in fact been passed for petroleum. 
There was some debate as to whether any undertaking would be given, whether there would be any agreement to take that back to Federal Cabinet. It is clear from the transcript that the then Minister for National Development gave such an undertaking to take it back to Cabinet. As the Prime Minister has said, that has, in fact, gone back to Cabinet, a decision has been given and the States have been notified of that decision, which was a rejection. That agreement was made and that agreement was carried out. The transcript then shows that they went on to a second matter, and that was what would happen to the grant of titles while there was no legislation of any type operating? There was a discussion, a very lengthy one which took up most of the meeting, on the procedure which would operate if the States granted titles, and, provided they referred the titles, before they granted them, to the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth stated it was prepared to agree to confirm them, whatever the regime ultimately established. That also was a matter finally agreed upon. 
The rest of the meeting, one could say, was occupied to some degree by a discussion as to the date of the next meeting. We have all attended these meeting of Commonwealth Ministers with State Ministers. I have attended many meetings at which Mines Ministers were present to discuss off-shore oil legislation, meetings of Attorneys-General and meetings of Health Ministers, and I cannot recall one at which this type of discussion about the time of the next meeting did not take place. But it took place in the context rather of the machinery for getting together than in the context that there was any stipulation that nothing should be done until the next meeting time - which was then being discussed - arrived. That question was never raised. The State Minister: did not insist on it. It was never explicit. Indeed, I do not think that the honourable member for Farrer suggests that it was explicit. Rather it is his impression of the effect of talking about meeting. 
I should have thought that had there been such a stipulation required by the States it would have been of some importance to them. But it is quite apparent from the record which has been tabled that the last thing which was done at that meeting on 26th September was to determine the communique. This is quite common at these meetings - to settle the communique, to be published to the Press, of what that meeting had in fact done. This took place; the communique was settled and has been published, and it is in the record of the papers tabled. The significant thing about this is that after some narrative, the communique recorded these understandings, it recorded the agreements that had been arrived at. It recorded the agreements I have mentioned and that there would be a reference back to Cabinet of the proposal of the States. It recorded the agreement for the interregnum period - because that was an agreement; it was an understanding; it was recorded. 
But honourable members will see that the communique is strangely silent about this important suggested undertaking. It is not in the communique. Is this because it wai regarded as so unimportant, if it existed, that it was not worth mentioning in the communique? Is that the fact? I do not believe it. Or is it the fact that at that time, before the honourable member for Farrer had had this notion and communicated it very widely throughout the Commonwealth, that is at the end of the meeting, nobody believed that this particular undertaking had been given? It was a vitally important undertaking to the States if it was given. There is nothing expressed in the transcript suggesting that it was given. There is nothing in the communique which was prepared and published at the end of the meeting, and agreed on by the States and the Commonwealth, which contains a word of reference to it. My recollection, as 1 say, is that it was not given. 
There is one other slight indication again as to the mistakenness of the honourable member for Farrer in thinking that this was given. In his statement to this House he referred to the correspondence between himself and the Prime Minister. It was made quite clear in the reply given by the Prime Minister that he did not wish if at all possible any undertaking such as has been suggested to bc given. The honourable member for Farrer perhaps thinks that he has breached those instructions. I am not suggesting that we would not be bound if he had, because the States did not know about the restriction on his authority. There was in fact this restriction on his authority. I do not believe that he did breach the instructions. Alternatively, can it be said that because there was in this instruction from the Prime Minister the words 'Do not give this undertaking if at all possible' that he was driven to the point where it no longer became possible to hold the position, so he whs compelled to give the undertaking? 
If that is the position - and 1 understand from his statement in the House that it is his view of the position - I would think that somewhere in the transcript there would be a suggestion from the States that he ought to give the undertaking, that he was resisting it but finally was driven to the position where it was no longer possible to comply with the instructions. There is not one word in the transcript which suggests that he was being driven to that position. How on earth the honourable member could think that it had become impossible for him to carry out his instructions, I am completely at a loss to understand. Indeed, 1 do not believe that he did fail to carry out the instructions of the Prime Minister. 
If the honourable member, who was then the Minister for National Development, did have to resile from the instructions and either because he was driven to it or considered himself driven to it then clearly this was an important matter. It was the one matter that the Prime Minister had thought was sufficiently serious to make the basis of his letter of instructions to the then Minister. I might add that the then Minister remained Minister for National Development for 1 day short of a month following this incident. 
There is not the slightest suggestion that he ever told the Prime Minister that he had had to depart from the instruction or had had to give way. There is not the slightest suggestion of that in his explanation. Surely that is because, in fact, no such undertaking had been given and it was not necessary for him to tell the Prime Minister. Of course it was noi necessary. I know that after thinking about the matter the honourable member for Farrer subsequently came to his present beliefs. I repeat what I have said before: I myself believe that he honestly holds his present view. But I believe that he is entirely mistaken and I believe that this charge of dishonourable conduct against the Government is entirely without foundation. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) (3) My attention has been drawn to certain newspaper reports of a survey conducted by Professor Fensham which mention the figures quoted by the honourable member. From the details available in these newspaper reports, I have reservations whether these figures provide a meaningful indication of the amount of government assistance received by non-government schools. However, I am not prepared to comment in detail until I see the full text of Professor Fensham. report which, I understand, has not yet been published. 
Education: Ministerial Meetings (Question No, 92) 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(b) (c). I think that the November meeting referred to in the honourable member's question was a meeting held in Melbourne on 17th November 1969 to discuss educational television. The meeting was convened by my colleague, the Postmaster-General, and attended by the State Ministers for Education and myself. The State Directors-General of Education and representatives of the various Government authorities concerned with educational television in Australia were also present. The meeting recommended that a special committee comprising Commonwealth and State representatives should be established to study recent technical development in the field of educational television and report to another meeting of Federal and State Ministers. At the meeting the State Education Ministers requested that additional finance should be made available  to  the A.B.C. to expand its activities in the educational television area. The meeting, which was a meeting  of  the Australian Education Council comprising the State Ministers for Education, took place on February  23  and  24.  I attended this meeting on part  of  the second day and following consideration  of  the preliminary reports of the nation-wide survey  of  educational needs which is being sponsored by the Council, it was agreed that a joint Commonwealth/State Working Party be set up 10 co-ordinate the reports of the various Stale surveys for submission to a special meeting of State Ministers and the Commonwealth Minister to be held in late May 1970. The State Ministers did indicate that they would seek special financial assistance from the Commonwealth in the financial year 1970-71. Several other matters were discussed during the meeting, but they were not the subject of an announcement 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of technical college enrolments published by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician do not form an appropriate basis for the calculation of percentages of students enrolled at technical colleges who are granted Commonwealth Technical Scholarships. These statistics of enrolments al technical colleges relate to enrolments in all courses at institutions generally classified as technical colleges, whereas Commonwealth Technical Scholarships are awarded only to students enrolled for certificate courses and certain other vocational courses. In addition the institutions covered by the Statistician's series do not coincide exactly with the institutions at which Commonwealth Technical scholarships may be used. 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the development of statistics on the necessary basis has been taken up as part of a comprehensive examination of education statistics generally. He points out, however, that the development of uniform statistics of technical education is made difficult because of differences between States in the counting of students and the organisation of courses. Preparatory work has been put in hand but the matter will need to be pursued as a joint effort with the Stale Departments which provide the majority of courses in this field. 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistican has drawn attention lo other statistical information which may be relevant to the Honourable Member's question. Estimates of the numbers of persons enrolled in technician courses are included in the results of a sample survey of study courses (other than ordinary school courses) for 1968, which have recently been published by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician. New questions to be asked in the 1971 Population Census on courses of study will provide further information in this field. 
Teachers Colleges: Graduate Enrolments  (Question No.  746)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Can he provide figures on the number of graduates from the Australian National University who have gone on to teachers colleges in other Slates. 
en - The answers to the honourable ministers question is as follows:  1'he number of graduates from the Australian National University who have gone on to enrol in teachers colleges in other States is not known. 
However, as university graduates enrolled at teachers colleges frequently undertake the Diploma of Education, figures are shown in the table below of Australian National University graduates who commenced the Diploma of Education at other Australian universities in 1968 and 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government is at present conducting a number of inquiries into particular aspects of education such as the teaching of Asian languages and cultures in Australian schools. 1 assume however that the honourable member's question refers to the nationwide survey of educational needs which is currently in progress. Although the Commonwealth Government is participating in this survey in respect of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, the survey is sponsored by the Australian Education Council which comprises the si* State Ministers of Education. 
(a) and (b) The Australian Education Council survey covers all aspects of primary and secondary education and teacher education in government and non-government schools. It is being carried out by the education departments and by the non-government school authorities in each State. As already indicated my Department is conducting comparable surveys for the A.C.T. and the Northern Territory, (c) The Survey of government schools was commenced in mid 1969 and non-governmental schools were invited to participate later in the  year, (d) At  the Australian Education Council Conference, held in Perth on 23 and 24 February 1970, the principal item of business was a review of progress of this survey. At that Conference, the State Ministers and I agreed to set up a working party of departmental officers to review the material produced for each State and the two mainland territories and to present a co-ordinated report to a special meeting of Ministers to lake place on 25 May. The final report of the survey is expected to be completed later in J970. (e) As the survey is under the sponsorship of the Australian Education Council, any publication of the report is a matter for the Council to decide. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. My attention has been drawn to a report in the Age of 4 April concerning a statement attributed to  Mr O'Hearn. 
Since then, at my request inquiries have been made with a view to obtaining a copy of lbc report from the University of Melbourne but officials of lbc University are not aware of 'he particular report mentioned. I note that the newspaper item says the report will be made in about a month'. 1.3) See (2). 
See (2). 
Yes. My Department continually reviews assistance available to Australian students in consultation with State Education Departments. Universities, College!) of Advanced Education and with the National Union of Australian University Students. This review is continuing and in addition to this a study is presently being undertaken to assess the needs of students and examine the appropriateness of meeting these needs by means of loans. This study will look at the pros and cons of loans and is without commitment. 
See (5). Every attempt is made within the funds available to meet the needs of as many students as possible, and to assist wilh particular and individual problems. Payment of living allowance is made subject to the operation of a means tesl whereby scholars with greater needs receive higher allowances. The honourable member may rest assured that where we find students have particular needs we will attempt to meet them as we have done in the past. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) The following table shows the number and percentage of total teachers who resigned from the Education Department in each State for the latest years for which information is available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth has not established  common criteria for determining the capital cost of schools per enrolled student in Commonwealth Territories and in the various States. In the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory capital costs are available on a per pupil place basis. These figures are shown in part (2) below and have been derived by dividing the total building costs of recently completed schools by the number of places for which they were designed. Total costs for schools in the A.C.T. comprised costs of buildings and associated services, site development, central heating, landscaping of grounds, provision of furniture and fixed equipment and an allowance for architectural and engineering fees. Costs are calculated on the same basis for Northern Territory schools except that no provision is made for centra] heating and air conditioning is included for high schools. 
(a) Capital cost per pupil place: 
Primary schools - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are three courses in speech therapy available in Australia, all of three years study post matriculation. Until 1967 all students were enrolled in diploma courses. In that year the University of Queensland accepted the first students for a degree course. 
The speech therapy colleges in New South Wales and Victoria have been supported as colleges of advanced education by joint Commonwealth Slate grants since 1967. The Commonwealth's decision to support these speech therapy courses in this way was reached after the States concerned had made submissions seeking such support, and the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education had recommended to the Government, in 1966 and again in 1969, that this support should be provided. 
Graduates from the Australian speech therapy colleges are admitted to higher study courses in some overseas institutions, and their qualifications are expected to be more generally accepted when the work of colleges of advanced education becomes better understood. 
There is a shortage in Australia of suitably trained persons to perform all the functions in the field which is termed speech therapy. The basic reason for this situation is the fact that the training of speech therapists is a comparatively new activity. It must be recognised that significant development in the training of speech therapists has occurred only recently and until 1967 was largely dependent on the efforts of the profession itself as the speech therapy colleges in Sydney and Melbourne operated with minimal governmental support. Since the two colleges have been accepted as colleges of advanced education they have had access to greatly increased financial resources which has enabled them to raise both the number of students and the quality of their training. The two speech therapy colleges shared governmental grants totalling $425,00 in the 1967- 69 triennium and provision has been made for grants of up to $678,000 for the 1970-72 triennium. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has not consulted with the Australian Universities Commission or with the radio and television stations concerning the establishment of an open university. 
However, I have personally given some consideration to the possibility of such a development, among other possible developments, and have consulted the Australian Universities Commission. But my consideration of the matter has not reached a point at which I can make any statement to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have sought the advice of all universities on the reductions in staff and salaries they would achieve if fees were abolished. The replies of the universities indicate that this is difficult to calculate. Staff members responsible for collecting fees do not spend the whole of their working time collecting fees and some universities have explicitly stated that they would not envisage dismissing members of staff if fees were abolished. They would nevertheless expect to achieve some eventual saving by deferring the filling of posts which might become vacant through resignations or retirements. In any event, the collection of fees is fairly highly mechanised and that consideration would reduce possible savings in salaries. 
If, when you speak of fees you have in mind tuition fees only, and not fees payable for residential accommodation, for student union membership and so on, I think that there will be some saving, but not necessarily from the commencement of the abolition of tuition fees, but eventually. 
On balance, it seems that savings which would accrue to universities from reduction in staff and salaries payable would not be significant. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The CSIRO Division of Wildlife Research has a continuing small-scale study on die house mouse, Mus musculus, which is responsible for the present plagues in the agricultural area of south-eastern Australia. The aim of the study is to understand the occurrence of mouse plagues and possibly to predict them. The results of the work to date suggest that a combination of three circumstances is necessary for mice to build up to plague numbers - a relatively high winter rainfall that thoroughly wets the subsoil and provides the mice in. the following summer with moist, cool and protected shelter in cracks in the ground; a good spring growing season pet milting much seed to set and providing ample food for the mice; and unseasonal rains in the summer enabling the mice to burrow into the cracked ground and breed prolitically 
It appears that in most years normal weather conditions in south-eastern Australia keep mice numbers low by limiting suitable breeding conditions and food supply. However, it seems that a combination of these three conditions has occurred widely during the past season over widespread areas in South Australia, north-western Victoria and New South Wales. 
I had already sent written advice to the honourable member when his question appeared on the notice paper. The answer to the question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician altered his definition of 'new' students in 1968. This change affects the count of new post-graduate students in particular, in 1968 and 1969. The attached table therefore shows the number of new bachelor degree students by sex, for the years 1967 to 1969. 
My attention has been drawn to the series of fires in some schools in the Melbourne area. I share the concern of parents with children at those schools, some of whom have communicated with me about the effects on the children of disruption of classes. I am unable to say how those incidents have affected the school building programme in Victoria but I can say that in the Legislative Assembly on 23rd March last  Sir Henry  Bolte stated that there was in the Treasury a reserve fund, established in lieu of insurance on schools, to cover this kind of contingency and that adequate funds existed to rebuild. I am not aware of any approach by the Victorian Government to the Commonwealth for assistance in this regard. From what  Sir Henry  Bolte has said it appears that he has the situation under control. 
in reply - I am glad to see that this Bill has the support of honourable members on both sides of the House. I wish to express my appreciation of the speeches which have been made, particularly those made on previous occasions when this matter has been before the House, but also those made leda.. 1 believe that they were thoughtful and constructive speeches. I have in fact forwarded to the members of the interim Council, who are inquiring into what should be the precise structure of this Institute, copies of Hansard which incorporate the earlier speeches. I propose also to send those members copies of the speeches which have been made today. The  Chairman  of the Council has indicated to me that he and his members have been particularly interested in some of the ideas which honourable members have put forward in their speeches on this Bill. Perhaps 1 should qualify that to some degree in that the speech of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  related almost entirely to his own electorate and the sewage outfall at Malabar. Although this type of pollution would be a matter for marine scientists, I would not like to be asked to give any direction to this national Institute that it should first concentrate on the honourable member's electorate. 
The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  said that he thought he would be political, and he was. Perhaps as a quid pro quo 1 could be momentarily political in return. He did try to make light of the very great part that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has played in the establishment of this Institute. The form of the Institute, its general structure and the objective of supreme excellence in marine science, which the Prime Minister stated in his policy speech last year, are very much projects which he has had closely at heart and behind which he has put his energy. The honourable member for Brisbane referred to some remarks made by  Senator Felix  Dittmer in another place many years ago. I would remind the honourable member only that the endorsement of this same senator was withdrawn last year by the Australian Labor Party. This drew from him the response: T have been sacked by a bunch of gangsters.' This seems to be a little inconsistent of the honourable member. Here he is referring to a man who claims that the Labor Party which sacked him is a bunch of gangsters, and then he wants to praise him for this measure. I think the connection is a little remote. However, I will not dwell on that. I reply only because of the injection of this element into the debate by the honourable member. 
There were certain points in the speech of the honourable member for Brisbane on which I wish to comment. It is the fact that this Institute, although it is situated in Townsville and will be closely connected with tropical waters, is a national Institute of Marine Science. Under the terms of reference it will not be restricted in any way simply to tropical waters. Indeed much of the marine science of great interest will relate to the cold waters. However, I think the Institute's early priorities will be connected with tropical waters and with the Great Barrier Reef, lt has an enormous area to cover, as the honourable member for Brisbane pointed out. The continental shelf of Australia is nearly a third as large as the land mass of Australia itself. The problems from cold to tropical waters vary enormously. They cover a very wide range. The problem for this Institute will be the extent of the resources which can be devoted to it in enabling it to do its tasks and the availability of personnel because the world is rather short of top class marine scientists. Wc will have to go along in the best way that we can and probably look around the world, as well as in Australia, to get the top quality of marine scientists for this Institute so that it will have the degree of excellence that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has outlined for it. 
In closing the debate perhaps I might refer to the fact that the Prime Minister in farewelling Her Majesty the Queen at the Sydney Airport announced the creation of Queen's fellowships in marine science to commemorate Her Majesty's visit, lt might be convenient if I now give honourable members a few more details about these fellowships which will be under the administration of myself and of my Department. The fellowships will be awarded each year for study in some aspect of marine science. They will be tenable at the Australian Institute of Marine Science, the James Cook University of North Queensland, or at an other Australian university or research establishment on the recommendation of the Australian Institute of Marine Science. Until the Institute is established in its final form the Interim Council will be the one to advise on these fellowships, to allow flexibility in selecting the best men available the stipend and allowances will be offered at 2 levels. One level, which is identical to the rate currently paid for Queen Elizabeth II Fellowships, offers a salary of from $6,000 to $6,500 per annum plus allowances. The higher level involves a salary of up to the rate for a professor, together with allowances. The lower level or 'fellow' is designed to attract those with Doctor of Philosophy, or equivalent qualifications in marine science and an age limit of not more than 30 years has been set. The higher level or senior fellow' is designed for those who have achieved professional distinction in the field of marine science and hence no age limit has been set. Because of these differences the period of tenure for a fellow shall be 2 years with a provision for extension in exceptional cases to a third year, while the senior fellow shall be for a period of up to 1 year. 
We may by this type of senior fellowship get some extremely distinguished world scientists in this field, perhaps on a year's leave, to take up work at the Institute. The number of awards will be up to 5 in each year, with flexibility in selection as between fellow and senior fellow. Applicants will be eligible regardless of their country of origin or citizenship. I will be responsible for selection after advice from a special selection committee, my Department will provide private secretariat services and administrative support. In closing the debate I wish to say that I appreciate the contributions made and the support which has been given to the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 in reply  -  I have listened with interest to the speeches of honourable members on this Bill. I think that the Bill does show 2 things. Firstly it shows the interest and support of the Government for halls of residence at the universities. The Government regards these institutions as valuable in a number of ways. Of course, they provide a place of residence for those who, by reason of distance otherwise would find it difficult to attend a university. But more than that, as some honourable members have been pointing out, they provide a more rounded education at the university for those students who are able to attend them. There is the opportunity for close exchange with fellow students and there is the opportunity for guidance by tutors. We regard them as a valuable means of assisting in education at the universities. 
The second point is that the two halls of residence mentioned in this Bill - the Roberts Hall at Monash University and the womens' hall of residence at the university of Tasmania - are simply the residue of halls for which we provided massive support during the triennium of 1966 to 1969. It so happened that by reason of delays in planning, as has been mentioned, these halls of residence were not able to get their entitlement to these matching grants because the matching expenditure had not taken place before 31st December. The fact that this Parliament is now asked to approve these payments, although in fact entitlement to them was not reached because expenditure could not be made before 31st December, shows, I think, a readiness to cut the red tape. I would expect the House not to hold up the expectations which have been built up by the previous Bill, but not realised for these 2 halls of residence, by voting in favour of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 I would agree that the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has put his finger on a problem in this area. As he mentioned, I visited the area recently and my information was that even taking all adults into account the average age of the population was 8 years. I cannot deal with the various matters such as the lack of a police station or a baby minding centre. I know the honourable member realises that these are essentially matters for the State Government. But the question of schools is one in which I have some interest. The Tregear school that I inspected is a new school catering for kindergarten, infant and secondary pupils. It is a first rate structure and a first rate school. It is quite impressive in its setting and a credit to the State Government which has erected it. I have discussed the matter with  Mr Southee  in the area. 
First of all I would like to say that it would be unfair to suggest that very great efforts are not being made by the State Government to cope with these problems, many of which could not have been foreseen some years ago. For example, in 1960, taking the period since Captain Cook landed, in New South Wales there were about 166 secondary high schools. In the next 9 years 123 were erected. It is true that there are still shortages but the immense effort that has been made to cope with these problems is evident. I do not think that the problem can be solved by just dealing with one area at a time. It is an Australia-wide problem and the honourable member will probably be aware that a survey is being conducted of the needs both in secondary and primary education as well as teacher training for the next 5 years. There has been one progress report and I am meeting with the State Ministers next Monday to discuss further this report and I am meeting with the State Ministers including New South Wales, for the next 5 years. I think it is necessary to take the matter on a complete basis rather than on individual electorates and this is the way in which we are approaching it. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  has drawn a comparison between the amount allocated in the schedule for New South Wales and that for Victoria. It is true that the amounts are not allocated strictly on a population basis or on a student population basis. On the other hand, if one took the figures over the 6-year period and also had regard to the fact that New South Wales has taken advantage of the offer of the Commonwealth to have teacher training courses supported in colleges of advanced education, under which they will get $3. 2m during this period, one would find that it balances out very closely. It is equivalent to a population basis of comparison. However, that is not the rigid basis. These figures have also taken into account the future plans of each State, what they felt they were capable of doing in the particular year, and what their stated needs were. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
As I was not the Minister responsible for the matter in 1965, I am not able to offer any speculation to the honourable member as to what prompted people to take the action that they took. But I think what is clear is that it was a very good step to take at that time in relation to these scholarships. Year by year there is a review of the whole spectrum of scholarships, including not only secondary and technical scholarships but entrance scholarships to universities and colleges of advanced education. Substantial increases have been made and priorities have been allocated. Any increase of funds is given to the area where it is thought it will do the most good. Of course one can adopt the point of view that there ought to be increases all round. One can take that point of view not only in relation to education and science but in relation to practically every other field. But the honourable member is perfectly well aware that resources are limited. Judgments have to be made. I think he is probably aware that that is the reason why the effort has been put into tertiary education scholarships up to this point of time. However this matter is constantly under review and will be coming up at Budget time. 
in reply - It is generally agreed that there is a shortage of teachers and that that is one of the major problems in education in Australia. Equally it is a problem in other advanced countries. The pressures in Australia are great, particularly because of our rapid rate of expansion. But the Commonwealth Government, in presenting this Bill, is making a massive attack on the problem by providing $30m for allocation to the States for the erection of teacher training colleges. This sum is for the 3-year period commencing on 1st July this year. 
In answering generally some of the matters raised by honourable members in this debate I want to point out that this is not the only way in which the Commonwealth is tackling the problem of the shortage of teachers. It is supporting the recurrent and capital expenditure of the universities and so far as they are training teachers this support is directed at that objective. In the same way the Commonwealth is making grants to colleges of advanced education which are adopting courses for teachers. This practice has been in operation since the beginning of the year and it represents another attack on this problem. Furthermore there are many teachers who do not go to teacher training colleges but who take Commonwealth scholarships at universities. The Commonwealth is assisting the attack on this problem not only by means of direct grants for the recurrent expenditure of universities and colleges but by means of its scholarship schemes. 
I want now to comment on some of the points raised by individual members. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  suggested that it might be a mistake to establish a teachers training college at Townsville and that it should have been established at Charters Towers. I remind him that it rests with a State government te say where a particular college should be established. The Commonwealth does not attempt to direct State governments where to establish colleges. It does not say that they should be at one place rather than another. There is a great deal of latitude not only as to where they should be but as to the actual plans. These matters rest largely in the hands of the State governments. At least the teacher training college at Townsville will be associated with the James Cook University of North Queensland which may be expected to grow and to be a useful complementary institution. Also, the Australian Institute of Marine Science is to be at Townsville. Therefore Townsville will be an area where people training their young minds will be able to associate with other people of high professional standard in a number of fields. 
The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  spent a good deal of time referring to the general problems of education and those affecting teachers, lt is true, as he said, that there are other problems affecting teachers which are not touched upon by this Bill. It may be said that teachers need aids or aides, that they need more in-service training and so on. Of course anyone can make this sort of comment. But this is rather appropriate to the survey which is being conducted at the present time where the needs for the next 5 years in these and other areas are being assessed. The States and the Commonwealth will be looking at this in conjunction. It is not related to this Bill. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  referred to the desirability of having residential accommodation. He pointed out that the Launceston teachers college library facilities, for example, were not used at night because the students did not reside near the college. He said that there was a need for residential accommodation. This is a sound point in my view. 1 point out that the States are not precluded from providing out of the moneys allocated some residential accommodation as part of their building programme. Indeed, in the plans which have already been tentatively submitted - they are not bound to - at least 3 of the States have in fact included in their plans some provision for residential accommodation attached to teacher training colleges. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  was concerned to do some analysis of the word ng of the second reading speech. He seemed to be troubled by the reference to this increase being designed to assist the States with their teacher education programmes at a realistic and reasonable level. It is true that in arriving at the figure one would obtain projections of the need for teachers in the various States. But that is not the end of the matter. The need is very great. There are other practical factors which come into assessing what is an appropriate figure to give. In some circumstances you could give so much that the material resources and the resources of manpower to erect colleges in the 3 year term could not cope with the amount given There is a limitation on what can be realistically, properly and reasonably used by the States, having regard to their plans, resources, materials and men available. 
A further factor which has to be taken into account is the capacity of the State to administer the staff of a teacher training college when it has been erected. What staff it will have available to maintain and service that institution, and how far it will be able to maintain it? The States obviously have to be consulted on a plan of this. kind. Lengthy consultations took place with the various States. They were asked to submit what they could do in the period to meet this objective of overtaking the shortage of teachers, lt is not suggested that this 3 year period which we are discussing will completely overtake this shortage, but it is a reasonable and realistic level of assistance towards that end, having regard to what the States want and what they are capable of handling. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  said that in New South Wales the last 3 year programme in which an amount of $24m was provided, ends on 30th June this year. He suggested that this programme mainly replaced old buildings and did not really provide many new places. I think that is what he was putting. 
-I do not have the precise figures for New South Wales. The honourable member may be interested in the overall figures for Australia during that triennium. In the triennium ending 30th June 1970, there were 4,350 new places provided by the scheme and 1,130 replacement places. He was referring to places where there is already a place but in an old building and the new building provides a place which simply substitutes for that old place. There was an overlap to the extent of 1,300, but there was a surplus, that is, a distinct and full advantage of new places to the extent of 4,350. The programme we are considering will provide 6,000 new and replacement places. I do not have with me the precise break-up. 
That is right. I cannot give the honourable member the figures for New South Wales. I do not have them with me. I suggest that the figures of 4,350 new places against 1,300 replacement places do not bear out the kind of proportion which the honourable member was suggesting was the position. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 I present the report by the honourable  Mr Justice  R. M. Eggleston following his inquiry into academic salaries in universities. J seek leave of the House to make a short statement relating to the report. 
A meeting was held last Monday week and the survey was considered. A Press statement was issued indicating the course that would be followed. A printed report will be prepared after the Ministers have referred the matter to their respective Cabinets, lt is hoped that this will be available generally in about a month from the date of that meeting. 
-I did read these particular statements; in fact, I have become a compulsive reader of any statement on education. But I have noticed that there is as much variety of opinion amongst educationists as there is amongst lawyers and scientists, and some of them assert their views just as dogmatically as do the members of other professions. The 6 State governments which are responsible very largely in this field and the Commonwealth Government are not likely to be stampeded by Press reports of the views of transient visitors from different educational systems. On the other hand I would say that there is no closed mind either of my colleagues in the States or of myself on the issues which have been raised by these men. One of the difficulties in this field is that there has not been enough basic research giving us the facts on which sound judgments can be based about changes of this type. When the Prime Minister, in his policy speech last year, announced the establishment of an advisory committee on development and research in education this gap was seen as capable, we hoped, of being filled, and I am currently working on the establishment of this committee which will be recommending the initiation or support of basic research. I can assure the honourable member that if steps are taken to change the system they will be taken on the basis of research and proper informal, on. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information is shown in the following tables and unless otherwise indicated is based on the subjects normally studied in a full-time course completed in minimum time. All compulsory fees for the course are included, except those payable to student bodies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is supplied in the following table. The table shows total fees for each course assuming they are completed in minimum time unless otherwise indicated. In addition to tuition fees, library, examination and graduation fees have been included. Pees payable to student bodies have been excluded. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
1969 wasthe first year in which students were accepted by the College. No Union or Students Association fees were payable in that year. 
The answer io the honourable members question is as follows: 
Complete information is available for 1969, the first year of the scheme's operation. In that year, 114 students received assistance under the scheme. Not all students receive (be same benefits and I .shall give details in the latter part nf this answer. 
and &lt;3) In addition to the courses listed by the honourable member in hi* question, the scheme also provides assistance to persons of Aboriginal descent lo take other tertiary and subtertiary course- at technical colleges, agricultural colleges and teachers' colleges, and other courses which will give them a technical skill, for example, secretarial and typing courses. In 1969 the numbers taking the various courses were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization has, over a period of years, carried out research which has led to the development of cloudseeding techniques. Sufficient information had been accumulated in CSIRO and overseas by 1966 for the Commonwealth Government to suggest to the governments in each State that they make arrangements in their own States for cloudseeding operations to assist in drought and bushfire emergencies. This would ensure that the operations could be carried out with most effectiveness by utilising the local knowledge of State officers. An assurance was given that CSIRO, while continuing with its research programmes, would assist the States with advice and equipment and would provide training for cloudseeding operators. This advice and assistance has been given by CSIRO so that the States should be in a position to accept responsibility for operations in their own regions. Equipping of private aircraft with cloudseeding equipment should therefore be a matter for each State government to decide upon. If technical difficulties arise which State officers are unableto handle, CSIRO can be approached by the particular State government for assistance. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At present, heavy current testing facilities in Australia are limited to low voltages. Local manufacturers of switchgear, isolators, fuses and surge diverters rated at voltages above 440 volts must therefore send their products overseas for type testing. 
The need for a national electrical testing laboratory to test heavy current equipment was recognised in 1 965, when a committee was set up under the auspices of the Electrical and Radio Development Association of N.S.W., to investigate the practicability of establishing such a laboratory in Australia. The  chairman  of the committee was the Chief of the CSIRO Division of Applied Physics. The committee recommended moving the electrical equipment testing facility of the Sydney County Council to another site in order to provide for present and future needs in this field. This recommendation was accepted and implemented, and the laboratory, now located at Lane Cove, New South Wales provides for practically all low voltage high current tests. Testing facilities for high voltage, high current electrical equipment, up to 22,000 volts and 13,000 amperes r.m s. will become available to manufacturers later this year. This is expected to meet most of the testing needs of local manufacturers for some time to come. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are now 550 children enrolled in special classes or schools in Canberra. 
Provision is made for deaf children at Ainslie and Mawson Primary Schools and at the Telopea Park High School. Specialised equipment and teaching aids have been provided in appropriately designed classrooms for deaf pupils. The classroom block attached to the Mawson Primary School is one of the most modern available in Australia. The importance of appropriate training and assistance for deaf children at an early age is recognised and two specially trained pre-school teachers work with' deaf and hard of hearing children in Canberra. These teachers give assistance to both pupils and parents. Another preschool teacher is undertaking a special course in Sydney this year to prepare her as a teacher of deaf pre-school children. Physically handicapped children who require medical  or  para-medical treatment on a regular basis attend a school located at the Canberra Hospital. Those children who are hospitalised for lengthy periods are catered for, educationally, by a teacher who works in the wards. 
Moderately mentally handicapped children receive their education at two special schools in Canberra. Koomarri School serves pupils from the north side of the City and the Malkara School those from southern suburbs. Pre-school education for the moderately mentally handicapped child is provided at Malkara while special extension facilities for 16-18 year olds is provided at Koomarri School. 
Mildly mentally handicapped children are enrolled in special classes known as Opportunity A classes which are attached to Ainslie, Mawson, Turner and Narrabundah Primary Schools and Narrabundah High School. 
Provision is made at A.C.T. high schools for general activity classes where slower learners undertake suitably orientated courses. There are 260 pupils in fourteen classes at nine A.C.T. high schools. 
A group of aphasic children attend a special Opportunity L class at the Forrest Primary School. 
For pupils who experience difficulty in reading, special groups are formed in schools and a remedial reading teacher provides concentrated tuition over a short period to assist in overcoming problems. Six special groups are formed each year. 
Classes are operating at Narrabundah, Macquarie, Hackett and Yarralumla Primary Schools and at Canberra, Watson and Telopea Park High Schools for migrant pupils who are experiencing difficulty with English. Language laboratories installed at Lyneham and Telopea Park High Schools are proving useful aids in teaching English to some migrant pupils. Special attention is also being given to language problems at preschool level. 
A new school and pre-school for physically handicapped, including totally blind pupils, will open during the 1972 school year and a special school for mildly handicapped pupils is at the early stages of planning. 
Earlier this year I visited the University of Queensland and a number of other universities to familiarise myself with their situations. At the time Professor Teakle was acting as ViceChancellor of the University of Queensland - it was before the appointment of Professor Zelman Cowen. I had a long discussion, with the aid of maps, about the building programme of the university. 1 was given further information by another officer about projected financial requirements. I was then taken on a tour of the university to inspect the existing buildings and work in progress. I am willing to keep myself up to date by making a further inspection, particularly as a new vicechancellor has been appointed to the University of Queensland. When I shall be able to do this will depend on the totality of commitments. 
This is a question that has been placed on the notice paper. 
Notwithstanding the fact that it was placed on notice my attention was also drawn to it by way of a question without notice in the House. Work has been proceeding on it. The answer is not yet ready, although a great number of the honourable gentleman's questions have been answered over recent weeks, some of them involving statistics from every State government and, at times, from every university in the country, and classified into male and female statistics by numbers of years. It takes a good deal of the time of officers to get material of this type together. The problem with the present question is that there is a practice among students, because of the difficulty in getting into particular faculties in particular universities, of applying for enrolment in a multiplicity of universities. The figures for people who are not enrolled but who applied are, therefore, false figures. It is necessary to make a close analysis in relation to each university to see what the true figures are. When this analysis has been completed it will be possible to answer the honourable gentleman's question, but the task that he has given to the officers is substantial. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is conducting a survey (Project SCORE) designed to provide accurate information on Australia's expenditure on research and development in the natural and social sciences, on the sources of supporting funds and on the manpower engaged in research and development activities. The survey will embrace all parts of the economy, and will be divided into four principal sectors: government (Commonwealth and the States), business, higher education and private non-profit organisations. 
The various sectors are being surveyed separately, commencing with the Commonwealth Government departments and instrumentalities. The full scale survey of this sector commenced on 9 January this year. I am now in the process of writing to appropriate Ministers in the States to make arrangements for the survey of State Government organisations. 
In the higher education sector, a pilot study is currently in progress in selected universities as a preliminary to a full scale survey of the universities to take place later in the year. My Department also intends within the next few months to make arrangements with State Government authorities for the survey of the Colleges of Advanced Education. 
In the business sector, a joint survey of the manufacturing and mining industries will be conducted by my Department and the Department of Trade and Industry in view of thelatter's responsibilities under the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act. This joint survey will be commenced within the next few months. 
Surveys will be made later of the relevant activities of business organisations outside the manufacturing and mining industries, and of private non-profit organisations. Planning of these surveys is still at a preliminary stage. 
The honourable member for Bennelong has put his finger on several areas of need of which I am aware. I have had representations on these matters. They are at present under con.sideration One question which arises is whether an income tax deduction is the appropriate way to deal with this matter in view of the fact that those who have the lowest income and may perhaps be said to have the greatest need would under that method get the least advantage. Furthermore the Treasury generally takes the view that an increase of deductions of this type tends to erode the tax base. Finally, I would say that there are many areas of need in relation to education. The difficulty is to allocate the priorities with which these claims should be met. This particular area of need will come under consideration along with very many others. Certainly I will see it is brought to the attention of the Treasurer. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
No. 
lt is not possible at present to say when these data will become available. 
Education: Pre-schools (Question No. 1026) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average amounts paid in fees by a student at the School of General Studies in the Australian 
-I did see the report, and I would point out to the honourable member that the Australian Education Council has been conducting a survey of needs in secondary and primary education in Australia. This survey, which was originated by State Liberal governments with Commonwealth co-operation, included also a survey of the needs of independent schools. Members know it is the policy of Liberal governments that all Australians are entitled to a proper standard of education. The results of that survey were before a meeting of the Australian Education Council last Monday fortnight. The figures in regard to independent schools are not complete because the schools are not centralised in their administration in the same way as are State schools. The figures in relation to State schools are under consideration. I assure the honourable member that the Government will be considering the needs of them and of independent schools in the light of its usual policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information relatesto the period 8th May 1969 to 7th May 1970. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b)- 
There are certain universities which conduct substantial external courses, in particular the New England, Macquarie and Queensland universities. In Victoria the University of Melbourne has been reducing this activity. There is a distinct need for certain people to be able to undertake external studies. Seeing this need, the Australian Universities Commission recommended doubling the allowance which was made for this in dealing with the requirements of universities in its last report in order to encourage universities, and particularly universities in Victoria, to undertake further external studies courses. The recommendation was accepted. The response has been disappointing. 1 myself have had some discussion with the vice chancellor of Monash University. The most that that university is prepared to offer is external studies courses in education for graduates. This of course did not touch the need with which the Universities Commission was concerned. Further efforts have been made to encourage universities to provide external studies courses for undergraduates but so far without success. It is not only the State Government but also the Commonwealth which would like to see these courses introduced. If further funds for particular courses were required a proposition could be put if finance were a difficulty. But as I understand it, it is not the difficulty, and certainly no proposition has been put forward. The problem appears to be that some universities are reluctant to undertake this type of activity. 
-I point out to the honourable member that the report was obtained from  Mr Justice  Eggleston and his assessors at the request of State governments, which have a very large financial stake in the question of salaries for professors and lecturers. The report did draw a distinction between lecturers and those above that position and awarded an increase of a lower percentage to lecturers. I understand that this was in accordance with the representations made to the Eggleston Committee by both the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations and the ViceChancellors' Committee. This differential was inherent in their representations although not the precise percentages which were adopted. 
In these circumstances I do not think that the Commonwealth Government should actively intervene to alter this position at this stage but should, as it has done, stand by the report. However, I would add that some State governments are considering the establishment of a committee to consider on a work value basis the various academic positions. This will take a longer time. It is quite probable that the committee will be appointed. If so, it could undertake to look at that matter. 
-I should remind the Leader of the Opposition that this survey is obtained by the Australian Education Council which consists of the State Ministers for Education. I am not strictly a member of that Council although I do attend by invitation part of its proceedings. Therefore it does not rest with me to say what will be published and when it will be published. Having said that, I do confirm that so far as the report dealing with government schools is concerned it was the hope expressed by the State Ministers for Education who constitute the Council that they would be able to print and release the report in about a month. If they make any change in that it would be not a matter over which I had any control. As to the independent schools, although some figures which are quite accurate in certain States were available there are other areas where the figures are still being gathered. It is very difficult to say when the final figures for those States will be available and therefore even more difficult to say when the report could be made available or whether the State Ministers for Education would see fit to publish it when they received it. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is a wide range of -fees levied for the various courses offered by more than 200 technical colleges throughout Australia, and it is not practicable to provide complete details. Furthermore, in some cases the fee structure has changed since 1966 making direct comparison impossible. However, some indication of changes, if any, is given in the following information: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures given for enrolments in government and non-government primary and secondary schools have been updated to include the last 5 years to 1969 inclusive. Some variations in earlier figures given in my predecessor's reply on 25 February 1969 (Hansard, pages 143 and 144) result from revisions given in the Commonwealth Statistician's Schools' Bulletins. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Prom the quota of Commonwealth Uni versity scholarships available each year 250 awards are reserved for Mature Age applicants. Most are awarded to students who are already enrolled in approved 'university courses to enable themto complete their course. A number is also awarded to persons who desire to commence approved university study. 
The conditions for (he award of Commonwealth Mature Age scholarships are the same as those applying to other awards made under the Commonwealth University Scholarship Scheme, with the exception that Mature Age awards are reserved for persons who are at least 30 years of age on 1st January of (he year in which they are awardedthe scholarships.  Prior  to 1970 the minimum age limit was 25 years. Mature Age scholarships are awarded on merit. Selection is conducted on an Australia- wide basis. Mature Age candidates who have completed at least1 year of a university course compete on their university record. The remainder compete on their results in an Australian matriculation level examination. 
Applications close on 30th September each year. Successful applicants are notified by mail in February or March of the following year. When selection is finalised, unsuccessful applicants are notified by mail. 
Like all Commonwealth University scholarships, Mature Age awards provide for the payment of all compulsory tuition fees and other statutory fees and. in appropriate cases, a travelling allowance. In addition a living allowance is also payable to full-time students. This is subject to a means test bused on the scholar's own income and, if he is married, the income of bis wife. The maximum allowance payable is $19.23 per week (equivalent to $1,000 per annum). For single scholars the allowance abates at the rate of 20 cents for every 30 cents by which the scholar's income exceeds $7 per week. Different abatement rates apply in the case of married scholars. Provided a scholar is receiving a living allowance, an allowance of up to $7 per week is payable for a dependent wife and an allowance of $2.50 per week for each dependent child under 16 years of age. 
As tuition fees and other statutory fees incurred by the holder of a Mature Age scholarship are paid direct to the university by the Department of Education and Science, the holder does nor pay such fees from his own resources. A living allowance received by a scholarship holder studying full time at the university is exempt from income tax. Any additional expenditure incurred personally by a Mature Age scholarship holder in attending the university, whether on a full time or part lime basis, is not deductible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Pre-school centres in Australia may be divided into the following categories: 
Government pre-school centres. (ji) Non-government pre-school centres - 
'Affiliated' centres which receive grants from State Governments through organisations such as the Kindergarten Union, all of which are affiliated to and accept the standards laid down by the Australian Pre-school Association. 
'Unaffiliated' centres, most of which do not receive financial assistance. 
Pre-schools in category (i) are maintained and supervised by State Governments and by the Commonwealth Government in the Federal Territories in accordance with their own standards. Affiliated' pre-schools in category (ii) (a) are all members of organisations, affiliated to the Australian Pre-school Association, which lay down standards for buildings, equipment and staff to which member centres must conform. The operations of these centres are supervised and inspected by these organisations in accordance with these standards. The affiliated organisations receive grants from Stale Governments to assist in building and the running of the pre-school centres of their members and in some States periodic inspections of these centres are made by Slate Government officers, lt can be assumed therefore that this category of pre-school is supervised and run in accordance with standards acceptable to State Governments. 
Unaffiliated' non-government centres in category (ii) (b), a large proportion of which provide mainly child care facilities and cater for children under 3 years of age, do not normally receive financial assistance from governments. In most cases this category of centre is required lo register wilh State welfare authorities, who exercise some measure of supervision over the physical but not necessarily the educational standards of these centres. 
The numbers of children enrolled in Government and 'affiliated' pre-school centres (categories  (i)  and (ii) (a) ) in each State and Territory to 1969 are shown in the following table. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. 
Yes. The Committee recommended the establishment of a Division of Air Pollution Research within CSIRO, bringing into one unit all the Organization's research relevant to sir pollution. 
The Executive of CSIRO has made a preliminary report to me, outlining serious practical drawbacks it sees in this proposal of the Committee. The Executive's view is that the establishment of a large single Division of Air Pollution within CSIRO would not be as effective a means of working on this, or on other environmental problems, as would continuation of the present practice under which each individual project is tackled in the laboratory in which the relevant expertise is most highly developed. For example, some problems on air pollution an essentially problems in the study of air movement and in the dissemination of polluted air masses into the general atmosphere; additional CSIRO research on this topic would be most effectively carried out in die Division of Meteorological Physics, where the relevant expertise and a range of related research is being studied. Similarly, since Australian coal presents special difficulties in the control and reduction of fly ash emission from power stations, research on this problem is being conducted as part of the fuel research programme of the CSIRO Division of Mineral Chemistry at Ryde. The Executive is examining the whole matter in further detail and will report again to mc in due course. 
The answer to the  honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
Technical training grants are apportioned to the States on a population basis. Broadly, the States determine the priority of projects and the amount to be spent on each project. The program is (hen submitted to me for approval. In the Victorian program for the present triennium (1968-71) an amount of $350,000 has been provided for new workshops at Castlemaine Technical College. This proposal has been approved by the Commonwealth. 
Victoria has received all the money it has requested for expenditure on approved projects up to date. 
and (4) I do not have the information the Honourable Member seeks and can only suggest that he take the question up with the Victorian Education Department authorities. 
by leave - I wish to provide the House with some further details of the Government's education programme for 1970-71, as outlined by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in the Budget Speech. In total the programme amounts to an estimated expenditure of $312,357,000 which is a 25% increase on the expenditure of $249,453,000 during 1969-70. This increase in Commonwealth expenditure on education results both from the introduction of new measures as well as the development of programmes which are already in operation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is a wide range of fees levied for the various courses offered by more than forty colleges of advanced education, and it is not practicable to provide complete details. Furthermore, In some cases the fee structure has changed since . 1966 making direct comparison impossible. However, some indication of changes, if any, is given in the following information: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (i) Libraries. Government schools. No libraries in Slate secondary schools have been built in the Bendigo electorate with funds made available to the State of Victoria under the 
Commonwealth Secondary Schools Libraries Pro- gramme. I understand that plans for library building projects under the Programme are being developed in Victoria, but no details of individual projects are yet available for the remaining period of the triennium. Four State secondary schools in the Bendigo electorate were assisted by the State to purchase bookstock in 1969, the first year of the Commonwealth Libraries Programme. 
(b) (i) Science blocks.Government schools. Seven science laboratories have been constructed in State secondary schools in the Bendigo electorate with funds made available to the State of Victoria under the Commonwealth Science Facilities Programme. Construction took place in the following years: 1964- 65-3 laboratories 1966-67-3 laboratories 1968-69-1 laboratory 
(a) (ii) Libraries. Independent schools. No libraries have yet been constructed with funds made available to individual independent schools in the Bendigo electorate under the Commonwealth Libraries Programme. Grants for building libraries have been offered to three such schools in the electorate. Grants will be authorised and payment made as soon as I have been notified in each case that construction has commenced. 
(b) (ii) Science blocks. Independent schools. Seven science laboratories have been constructed in independent schools in the Bendigo electorate so far and a building grant is available during 1970-71 for 1 school. Quite extensive reconstruction of existing science buildings has occurred in 2 schools. These building activities took place in the following years: 1965- 66 - 2 laboratories reconstructed 3 laboratories built 1966- 67-3 laboratories built 1968-69-1 laboratory built 
The names of the schools concerned are set out below. For the independent schools, details of the amounts offered and the years in which grants are available, are set out. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In respect of my predecessor's answer to question No. 748 (Hansard, 28th November 1968, page 3492), updated information  is  as  follows: 
(2) and (4) Pre-school centres for which my Department is responsible have been established at the following places in the Australian Capital Territory and Jervis Bay Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of Commonwealth Technical scholarships available for 1970 was 2,500. 
The number of applicants for these scholarships was 27,919. Of these students 2,654 (or 9.5%) successfully competed for, and accepted an award. 
The number and percentage of scholarships awarded this year to students who, at the time of competition were attending schools and colleges in metropolitan and other areas are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of Commonwealth Secondary scholarships available in 1970 was 10,000. 
The number of students who competed for these awards in 1969 totalled 83,821. Of these students, 10,034 (or 12.0 per cent) successfully competed for and accepted a Commonwealth Secondary scholarship. 
The numbers and percentages of scholarships awarded in 1970 to students who at the time they competed were attending Government, Catholic and other non-government schools are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following universities offer courses in criminology: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recurrent budget for colleges has risen from $57.4m in the 1967-69 triennium to a figure of $128.3m in the 1970-72 triennium. The latter figure does not include adjustments which may result from implementation of the recommendations made last year by  Mr Justice  Sweeney in the report of the Inquiry into Salaries of Lecturers and Senior Lecturers in Colleges of Advanced Education; nor does it take account of the effects of recommendations in respect of academic salaries made this year by  Mr Justice  Eggleston. 
No official approach has been made for an overall increase in the recurrent programmes agreed to for this triennium by Commonwealth and State governments. The Staff Association of the Colleges has raised this and a number of other questions with me and they no doubt have also approached the State authorities. I have also received a number of personal representations on behalf of the Staff Association of the Colleges in this matter. 
Semi-governmental Interest Rates (Question No. 1385) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Holders of Commonwealth Post-graduate Awards are not paid a salary but receive a living allowance, which is not subject to taxation. It is not considered appropriate that the level of living allowance should be related to academic salaries. However, the Government maintains a continuing review of the living allowances paid under the Commonwealth Post-graduate Awards Scheme to ensure that the level of allowances is maintained at a satisfactory level. 
Prior to 1969 the Commonwealth Postgraduate Awards Scheme was administered by the universities. The Commonwealth made a grant to each university of $1,800 per. annum as a contribution towards the stipend of each scholar. Stipends were paid by the universities and varied from one university to another ranging from $1,800 to $2,350 per annum in the first year of an award. In addition the Commonwealth made an annual contribution to the universities of S50i) per student to cover the costs of research expenses. 
In 1969 the Commonwealth assumed responsibility for administering the Scheme and introduced a general rate of living allowance of $2,350 per annum, with a per capita research grant to universities of $400 per annum. In addition students were granted additional allowances for dependants, thesis costs, travel and accommodation. Where it appeared that an award holder might receive less living allowance under the new provisions his stipend was supplemented to bring it to the level which he would have enjoyed. Since 1969 the majority of students have received a higher rate of allowance than would formerly have been paid. 
Before 1969 the universities made their own decisions about the rates of living allowance to t&gt;e paid to holders of Post-graduate Awards. These varied from university to university and no records are available to me of the rates , paid at individual universities since the inception of the Scheme. Since 1969 there has been no variation in the rates paid. The living allowances paid under all Commonwealth Scholarship Schemes are kept under continuing review. In recommending variations regard is paid to wage levels, increases in living costs and other relevant factors. However, variations are not directly related to changes in any particular index such as national wage decisions. 
A review of the living allowance payable to Post-graduate award holders is currently being undertaken. Should the Government decide to vary the allowances, any increase would bc expected to take effect from the commencement of 1971. 
As mentioned above, variations in living allowances are not related directly to decisions in national wage cases. However, the Government will continue to maintain a continuing review of the benefits payable under the Commonwealth Post-graduate Awards Scheme. 
Pursuant to subsection (6.) of section 5 of the States Grants (Teachers Colleges) Act 1967, 1 present a copy of a determination made pursuant to sub-section (5.) of section 5 of the Act. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian National University Act 1946-1967 I present the report of the Council of the Australian National University for the year ended 31st December 1969. 
-I had some knowledge of the incident to which the Leader of the Opposition referred but, as I understand it, this particular high school was in one of the States and of course under State administration. The Leader of the Opposition is apparently suggesting that I should direct the State governments as to how they control the day to day administration of their high schools. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Education and Science for the year ended December 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that he is working on the problem of developing annual statistics of teachers at the primary and secondary level of government and nongovernment schools in all States with separation into these levels being sought on a consistent basis throughout the different State systems. As an interim measure, pending the development of this series by the Commonwealth Statistician, my Department arranged to collect details of teachers at the primary and secondary level at nongovernment schools at August 1969 on a voluntary basis from schools seeking per-capita grants under the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969. 
This information has permitted the calculation of estimates of pupil-teacher ratios for 1969 separately for primary and secondary grades of Catholic and other non-government schools which are shown in the f ollowing table. In cases where both primary and secondary classes were taught by the same staff, teachers were classified to the level at which they spent the greater proportion of their teaching time. Special schools for physically or mentally handicapped children have been excluded. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Science and Industry Research Act 1949-1968 I present the twenty-second annual report of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for the year ended 30th June 1970 together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's Report on these statements. 
It is a fact that the report of the Australian Education Council contained figures showing what was called a 'shortfall' in the amounts to be provided by the States for education over a 5-year period from 1971 to 1975. Before dealing with the later part of the honourable member's question I think I should comment that the way in which these figures were prepared was to take the requirements of the States, estimated by them over the 5- year period, on capital account and also for recurrent expenses and then to estimate what the State education Ministers thought might be provided in State budgets, both for recurrent and capital expenses. Having arrived at a total figure over the 5 years they then subtracted that from the total needs and said that they would look to the Commonwealth Government to take care of the shortfall. I should point out that those calculations were made up to 25th May, which was before the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council meeting at which there was a very significant re-arrangement of the financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States. Had that survey and its figures been prepared after the Premiers Conference and not before, it is only reasonable to consider that the figures would have produced a different result. 
Dealing with the latter part of the honourable member's question, there are no separate figures in that report for New South Wales. Therefore, I am unable to give him those precise figures. Although I have seen them, I do not carry them in my head. Finally, as to what the Commonwealth Government is doing in relation to New South Wales, because of the alteration in the financial relationships since the report was prepared the Prime Minister has written to the State Premiers and has told them that he would be interested to know what view they take regarding their particular activities in this field following on the report and that on receipt of that information he would be prepared to discuss tha matter with them. The report does not contain figures relating to independent schools because they were not complete, and they are still not complete. I think it will be some time before the figures for the independent schools will be completed. I should add that the Prime Minister mentioned that it was desirable that those figures also should be the subject of consideration at tha same time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All States have advertised abroad for teachers. The following progress reports were made available by the Education Departments of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The Education Department of Queensland was unable to supply any details. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of new students admitted to post-graduate studies and the total number of post-graduate students in 1969 and 1970 at Australian universities was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Education in the Australian Capital Territory is administered under the A.C.T. Education Ordinance . 1937-1966. The Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science is the Minister responsible under the Ordinance. 
(4) and (5) I am currently considering the desirability of having an inquiry made, into the administration of education in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Professor Fensham's figures consist- of several items which form the basis of an estimated recurrent cost to governments for each pupil attending 2 unidentified non-government schools.  I  am unable to substantiate the Professor's figures as details of some of these items, for example, the level of income of families with children attending these schools, are not available to me. 
Post-graduate Studies  (Question No. 1345) 
Except in Commonwealth Territories, the subsidies of which details were sought by the honourable member are the responsibility of State Authorities. It has therefore taken some time to assemble the information. In all sections of the answer, information concerning the States has been provided by the State Authorities and may not be comparable. 
I should also point out that the reply has been confined to the more direct forms of subsidy and is presented in a condensed form. I have excluded such items as payments in the nature of per capita grants to independent schools, interest payments and loan schemes, travel allowances, scholarships and bursaries, which may neverthe- . less represent an indirect form of subsidy to school costs to which parents' organisations contribute in a number of different ways. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
WEN -  In the House on 1st September 1970 I undertook in reply to a question without notice from the Member for Kingston to find out something of the report of the Committee headed by  Mr V.  J. Truskett on nursing education in New South Wales. The report has been tabled in the New South Wales Parliament but I understand the New South Wales Government has not yet taken any decisions on the matters raised. 
The report covers a wide field and as has been suggested, seeks to involve nursing education with colleges of advanced education. The report has 18 conclusions and 24 recommendations. It is not possible or proper for me to comment on these since the report is will being considered by the New South Wales Government. 
However, if recommendations about nursing education are formulated by the New South Wales Government involving colleges of advanced education in some way or other, these recommendations will be referred to the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education for its advice. 
Law of the Sea Conference (Question No. 1666) 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
The Department of Adult Education of the Australian National University published in November 1967 a document entitled 'An Independent Education Authority for the Australian Capital Territory' this being the report of a working committee chaired by  Sir George  Currie which was established following a seminar conducted by the Department of Adult Education. My Department received copies of the document on publication. 
My Department has under continuing study the question of administration of education in the Australian Capital Territory. Following consideration of the suggestions of  Sir George  Currie's Working Party by the ACT Teachers Association and the ACT Council of Parents and Citizens' Associations, in June 1969 the Council sponsored a meeting attended by about 200 people at which resolutions suggesting a Committee of inquiry were passed. These resolutions were submitted to my predecessor. Since then my Department has held discussions with representatives of those who had been active in advocating an inquiry. I have also received a deputation on the matter. 1 am currently considering the desirability of having an inquiry made into the administration of education in the Australian Capital Territory. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Salaries for academic positions and for related senior administrative positions at the Australian National University are determined by the University. The University needs, however, in order to secure the necessary funds, to have regard to the principles laid down by the Government from time to time following investigation of the Australia-wide position on salaries. The University has provided the following information concerning salaries in excess of $10,000 per annum which are now being paid as a consequence of the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Eggleston earlier this year: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The universities and university colleges which increased fees taking effect in 1970, and the increases in each case, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Part (1) and (3) The number and proportion of qualified applicants who unsuccessfully sought enrolment this year in universities is set out, by State, in the following table. 
It should be remembered that, after (he submission of applications for admission to universities, there are always some who decide to enrol in a College of Advanced Education, or other tertiary institutions, others who decide to return to school in the hope of gaining a scholarship in the following year or who, for one reason or another, decide not to proceed with tertiary education. Thus, the actual number of disappointed applicants would be lower although the precise number cannot be ascertained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Questions Nos 83 and 84 were answered on Friday, 5th June 1970 (Hansard pages 3091 to 3094), question No. 87 was answered on 20th May 1970 (Hansard page 2489) and question No. 82 was answered on 4th September 1970 (Hansard page 1078). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are116,619 students at Australian universities in 1970, of which 26,108 were new bachelor degree students. Total enrolments exclude 155 higher doctor course enrolments. 
The number of Commonwealth University scholarship holders in training at 30th June 1970 was 30,510. This represents 26.1 of the total student enrolment at universities in 1970. 
This comparison is not wholly valid since the total student enrolment includes students taking higher degree courses and single subjects which do not fall within the area covered by the Commonwealth University Scholarship Scheme. The honourable member will recall that in reply to his Question No. 595 of 1968 (Hansard page 111 of 25th February 1969) my predecessor gave statistics which compared University scholars in training in the years 195 1-1.968 with the total student enrolment in courses other than those leading to higher degrees. The comparable percentage for 1969 was 28, and for 1970 it is 30. 
(a) The number of applications received for 
Com mon wealth University scholarships available in 1970 was 56,327. 
The number of Commonwealth University scholarships offered in 1970 was 14,492. 
The number accepted was 11,760. This represents 20.9 per cent of the total number of applicants. 
NUMBERS OF STUDENTS PASSING MATRICULATION EXAMINATIONS: 1969 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is its follows: 
and (2) A number of educational institutions classified as Colleges of Advanced Education under the States Grants (Advanced Education) Acts conduct courses both at tertiary and subtertiary levels, although only courses at tertiary level are approved for direct Commonwealth assistance under 'these Acts. No statistics are available of total enrolments at all levels in these institutions. The latest available data as supplied by the various' colleges indicates a preliminary total 44^56 students enrolled in tertiary level courses at Colleges of Advanced Education in 1970. This figure is, in the main, consistent with that given in answer to the previous question (Hansard, 16th September 1969 page 1425) and relates in general to total enrolments in courses which attract a Commonwealth grant- under advanced education arrangements; these courses include those approved, in full or in part, as at tertiary level binder the States Grants (Advanced Education) Acts. However the preliminary student figures supplied by some Victorian colleges also include enrolments in certain certificate courses considered to be tertiary standard by the Victorian Institute of Colleges. 
Because of these factors the preliminary figures, are subject to some definitional problems hi respect of coverage of tertiary enrolments. The Anal statistics of Colleges of Advanced Education published by the Commonwealth Statistician for 1968 relate to enrolments in those parts of advanced level courses approved under the States Grants (Advanced Education) Acts. 
No preliminary information for new enrolments is available for 1970. 
The total number of students holding Commonwealth Advanced Education scholarships at 30th June 1970 is 4656. All of these students are enrolled' in courses entry to  which  normally follows completion of full secondary schooling. The colleges at which these courses are conducted include most of those named in die States Grants (Advanced Education) Act and also a number of other colleges. The number of Commonwealth Advanced Education scholars at 30th June in colleges named in the Act is 3734. 
This is 8.4 per cent of the total enrolment of 44,356 given in answer to part 1 of this question. However, as the enrolment figures shown above are subject to definitional problems, as described above, and include enrolments in certain courses and parts of courses not included in the scope of the Commonwealth Advanced Education Scholarship Scheme, this comparison understates the actual percentage of students holding scholarships In approved courses. 
(a) The number of applications received for Commonwealth Advanced Education scholarships available in 1970 was 43,375. Most of -these students also applied for other scholarships and awards. 
The. number of Commonwealth Advanced Education scholarships offered in 1970 was 5,491. 
The number accepted was 2,653,' of which 1,932 were (or students entering first year. The acceptances represents 6.1 per cent of iac total number of applicants, or 48.3 per cent of the students who received the offer of an award. 
The following numbers of Commonwealth Advanced Education scholars are enrolled in the first approved year of their courses in 1970. lt should be noted that certain courses to which entry may be gained one year below matriculation level are, for purposes of .the Commonwealth Advanced Education Scholarship Scheme, approved from the second year of the course. The statistics shown here include students who accepted awards in earlier years, deferred entry to their courses at the time and commenced training in 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
With regard to parts (1) and (2) of his question, Commonwealth Government assistance for university students commenced in 1943 under the Commonwealth Financial Assistance Scheme. One purpose of this, scheme was to ensure that the flow of trained professional personnel would be adequate' to meet the needs of the country during the war and post-war period. 
The scheme was administered by the Universities Commission in co-operation with the Directorate of Manpower under the National Security Regulations in force at that time. 
At the end of the war the Government of the time decided to continue financial assistance to students for a period of five years from the end of hostilities. This extension of the Scheme became known as the Interim Financial Assistance Scheme. Both the original scheme and the Interim scheme which succeeded it, provided assistance in the form of fees and a living allowance both subject to a means test About 1,700 students were assisted each year. 
During the period of the Interim Financial Assistance Scheme, the Government under  Mr Chifley  asked the Universities Commission to draw up a plan for a permanent scheme of assistance to students. 
In 1949, after considering a report submitted to it by the Commission, the Chifley Government decided to introduce a permanent scheme from the beginning of 1951, to be known as the Commonwealth Scholarship Scheme. At the same time it decided that 3,000 new awards should be available each year, that the new scheme would absorb those students already receiving assistance under the Interim Scheme, and that the benefits payable would comprise all compulsory fees, plus a living allowance which would be subject to a means test. 
The statement which I made in the House on 19 August was intended to show the growth in the Government's contribution to student assistance from the commencement of the present scheme at the start of 1951. The present Government has no wish to deny the contribution made by the Labor Governments during the war and post-war periods. I am happy to provide the correction to the original statement which the honourable member has sought. 
Total student enrolment in universities in 1949 was 31,128 and in 1969 was 108,631. The total number of students being assisted under the Financial Assistance Scheme in 1949 was 1,873 which includes 479 new awards made in that year. The total number of students being assisted under the Commonwealth University Scholarship Scheme in 1969 was 27,320 which includes 8,948 new awards made in that year. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ". It is not realistic to attempt to estimate the cost of providing pre-school education over the whole of Australia on the basis described by the honourable member. There are basic differences between the Australian Capita] Territory and other areas in many of the factors which affect costs in the provision of pre-school education, such as the geographic spread of the pre-school aged population, the size of the pre-school centres which would be required, costs of acquisition and development of sites for centres, building costs, attendance patterns and salary levels. 
Estimates based on applying figures appropriate under one set of conditions to. areas where conditions differ so substantially could not help but be misleading. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (b) (c) It is difficult to define exactly the number of children of pre-school age. This would normally include the number of children aged 3 and 4 years but can also include a number of 5 year olds who are not yet enrolled at primary schools. The following table shows the number of children in the population aged 3 and 4 together with estimates of the numbers of 5 year olds not enrolled at primary school at June 1970. The size of the latter category will, of course, vary during the school year depending on enrolment policies at primary schools. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to question No. 100 was given in Hansard dated 23rd September 1970 commencing at page 1574. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Most of the matters raised in the honourable member's question are hot within my responsibility. To a large extent therefore the following reply is based on advice provided by the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
I have not seen the study to which the honourable member refers. However, in assessing the Committee's findings concerning the training of engineers it must be pointed out that they were based on the educational arrangements existing in the United States. A question to be considered would be whether these findings can be applied without modification to the Australian situation. 
From time to time statistics are quoted as to the number of male engineers qualifying per head of population in the relevant age groups. These statistics, however, do not rest on a common definition of what constitutes ah 'engineer'. 
It would be inappropriate to single out t particular occupation or group of occupations as having a 'vital and decisive role' in Australian development. All members of the work force, professional techologists. technicians, skilled, semiskilled and unskilled alike contribute to this end and no group can achieve much without the cooperation of other occupational groups within the work force. 
The question of appropriate rates of pay for engineers employed in the Commonwealth Public Service is a matter for decision by the Public Service Board and, if necessary, by arbitration as provided for under the Public Service Arbitration Act. I am informed that a searching inquiry was recently made by a Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission concerning pay claims for engineers and the Commission's decision was announced on 3rd December 1969. Subsequently, the Public Service Board considered renewed pay claims for engineers. On 18th June 1970 the Board informed the three staff associations concerned of its conclusion that in current circumstances, it would not be appropriate to grant additional pay increases for engineers. However, the Board indicated it would undertake a further survey of rates paid by other employers towards the end of this year in order to be able to assess any movements in the market apparent at that time. Moreover, there is recently being undertaken a joint Board/Departmental review of the work of engineers employed by the Commonwealth. Arrangements have been made for staff associations to be associated with this review on a continuing basis. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the election policy of the Government to increase the amount of Commonwealth assistance given to educational research in Australia. As honourable members are no doubt aware, some details of this policy were given in my statement in the House on 16th April 1970. The Commonwealth is already assisting educational research in a number of ways. Some examples of this are the assistance given to selected educational research projects through the Australian Research Grants Committee and the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education. In addition there is the annual grant to the Australian Council for Educational Research and special grants to individual projects such as the Australian Science Education Project and the Tertiary Education Entrance project. There are also special grants for the purposes of research and research training in the programme of assistance to universities. 
Notwithstanding that the Commonwealth has for some time been assisting educational research in this country, it has become evident that more needs to be done. In September 1969, at a meeting in Canberra, a number of leading Australian educationists carefully considered (he needs of educational research in Australia and highlighted several areas demanding greater attention. The meeting strongly recommended that a greater measure of assistance be given to research in education, and emphasised the importance of communication of results, identification of areas of national importance, co-ordination of research efforts and the training of research personnel. Subsequently the Government promised, as part of its policy before the 1969 elections, to stimulate educational research still further by means of special assistance, commencing with the allocation of $250,000 in the 1970-71 Budget. The Bill now before the House and the programme to which it gives effect are the results of that promise. 
To implement this policy and to advise me on the administration of the new research programme, I have established a committee known as the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education. The  Chairman  of this Committee is Professor P. H. Partridge of the Australian National University. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard details of the membership of the Committee. 
The  answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
The following information updates that given by my predecessor on 14th August 1969: 
-I appreciate that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has not been long in this place but he still should know that I cannot answer questions about submissions to Cabinet and the detail in them. I think probably he does understand this. However, in the announcement I made last Friday about an inquiry into an education authority for the Australian Capital Territory I did point out that this was the decision at the present. I will keep the matter under review. 1 would point out to the honourable member that it has been generally agreed, certainly by my predecessors, and I have taken the view, that at some time the present arrangements with New South Wales, under which that State supplies teachers for the Australian Capital Territory, will have to be replaced. What really is at issue is the timing of this and the form of administration. It would not be reasonable for the Government to set up an inquiry without first considering certain conditions which, if they were left unchanged, would severely limit the scope of any recommendations at this time. 
It is necessary for the Government to take into account the matter of teacher supply. A teaching service confined to Australian Capital Territory schools now or for some time to come would be too small to provide any attractive carreer structure. The Government's decision announced on Friday, to which the honourable member also referred, to establish a Commonwealth teaching service is related to this particular question. The Commonwealth teaching service will, if it operates successfully, provide some security and mobility for teachers in Commonwealthoperated school systems wherever they are. While its first application will be in the Northern Territory, both in the community schools and in the Aboriginal schools, its existence will eventually facilitate the operation of a separate school system in the Australian Capital Territory if one is to be established. This would be the case whatever form of authority was constructed to take care of the school system in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Another matter which needs to be considered is the question of teacher training. The Australian Capital Territory cannot expect to rely on other States to supply its teachers through their teacher training facilities. We are now supporting at the Canberra College of Advanced Education teacher training courses which will be operating from 1971. This is another matter which will have to be considered. It is central to the question of an authority in the Australian Capital Territory that there be a sufficient supply of teachers available. These and other matters have to be considered and, as I said in the announcement, the Government gave very careful consideration to all the proposals that were put forward. 
The honourable member will be aware that this survey was presented to the Australian Educational Council on 25th May. This, of course, was before the Premiers Conference. I was invited to the meeting on 25th May and it was agreed that I and the State Ministers would take the matter back to our colleagues for them to consider. This was done and the Prime Minister and the Premiers had the results of the survey well in mind before the Premiers Conference. It is undoubted that the figures which were revealed would have had an influence on the attitude of the Commonwealth in granting as much as it did in the financial re-arrangements that the States secured at the Premiers Conference. This raised a situation in which we had a survey giving projections, or anticipations of State Ministers for Education, over 5 years. These were based on projected contributions by States before the financial rearrangement. 
After the financial re-arrangement it was evident that the States would be able to do very much better. The Budgets of the various State Governments which have been presented since then make it quite clear that this is so. Whereas the State Ministers for Education had worked on an annual increase of 10 per cent, budgets presented since the Premiers Conference, such as those of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, have provided increases for education ranging between 13 per cent and 15 per cent. It therefore became necessary to see what the States actually proposed to do, as distinct from the projections to State Ministers for Education. The Prime Minister has written to the Premiers seeking their reactions to the survey. In this correspondence he has also indicated to them his view that the needs of independent schools should also be considered. I think the last part of the honourable member's question referred to a report which the State Ministers for Education issued early in September in which they mentioned that some of the needs for capital were extremely urgent, some were urgent and then there were others. I may add that I have written to the State Ministers for Education asking them to indicate which capital works fall within these various categories. I have had a reply from only one of the Ministers. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make certain amendments to the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act  1967.  These changes are in accordance with proposals submitted to the Government by the College Council. Most of the amendments concern the membership of the Council but there is also an important amendment to enable the College to award degrees. I shall deal in more detail with the latter at a later stage. The first alteration of Council membership under the Bill is to make provision for student representation. There is at present no such provision but it was envisaged that a decision on this question would be made when the College had come through its early developmental stages. This point has now been reached. The Bill therefore provides for two students to be elected to the Council by the student body and for the Council, should it wish, to arrange for separate representation of part-time or full time students. 
Related to the amendment to have student representation on the Council is an amendment to reduce the minimum age of Council membership from  21  years to 18. The Bill provides for teaching staff representation on the Council to be increased from  2  to  3  members. The last of the proposed alterations to Council membership arrangements is one to make the Vice-Chancellor and the  Deputy  ViceChancellor of the Australian National University alternative members of the College Council. The duties of the Vice-Chancellor make it difficult for him to attend ali Council meetings and the Act now makes provisions which enable the  Deputy  Vice-Chancellor to be appointed to the Council in his stead. A more flexible arrangement is desirable, which would allow either the Vice-Chancellor or the  Deputy  Vice-Chancellor to attend Council meetings as circumstances permit. 
The Act at present provides for a Council of 16 persons, with the possible addition of another person as  Chairman.  I beiieve the strengthening of Council membership by the addition of student representation and further staff representation is fully justified at this stage of the College's development. The other important matter contained in the Bill is provision for the award of College degrees. The functions of the College are to be enlarged to permit it to award degrees, in addition to the award of diplomas and certificates. Honourable members will be aware that when the Canberra College of Advanced Education was established in 1967 it was not given the power to award degrees for the satisfactory completion of courses. This arrangement was consistent with the Government's policy at that time of not providing financial assistance for degree courses in colleges of advanced education in the Stales.In the meantime the Government sponsored an inquiry into the nature and classification of awards in colleges of advanced education by a committee under the chairmanship of  Mr F.  M. Wiltshire. The recommendations of the Wiltshire Committee have been under discussion between State and Commonwealth Ministers of Education for some considerable time now. Although details of appropriate administrative arrangements have not yet been agreed upon, the Ministers have agreed on the desirability of consistency in awards throughout Australia. For its part the Commonwealth has said that it will be prepared to provide financial assistance for degree courses in colleges where the standards of those courses have been endorsed through appropriate national accreditation machinery. 
The proposed amendment to the functions of the Canberra College of Advanced Education will enable the College to make statutes for the award of degrees in appropriate circumstances. Those statutes will be subject to aproval by the GovernorGeneral. I will be prepared to recommend such approval where the academic standards of courses in the College have been established through effective national accreditation machinery. Pending agreement with the States on the form that machinery will take. I propose to invite a small independent group of knowledgeable persons to make recommendations to me in respect of awards at degree level submitted by the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education. The Bill deletes certain parts of the existing Act which refer to the Interim Council and the First Council Report and are therefore no longer operative. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Beazley) adjourned. 
-I do not have a report on the particular case in Tasmania to which the honourable member for Wilmot refers. But I would point out that supplementary grants to assist in the payment of the increase in academic salaries recommended by the Eggleston Committee have been promised by the Federal Government. This is our share of the matching grant to assist the universities in meeting the increase in academic salaries. I hope to introduce a Bill, perhaps next week, on this subject. 
The only other thing that has affected the triennial amounts which the university has, if it orders its affairs properly, is some rise in non-academic salaries. When the Australian Universities Commission plans for the 3-year period the amount that it is prepared to recommend to particular universities, it incorporates in the figure an amount for rises in prices and rises in the case of non-academic salaries. I have not seen any representations through the Commission in relation to the University of Tasmania on non-academic salaries. Academic salaries have risen following the Eggleston report and we have promised to supplement them. So, I do not see any justification at the moment for the proposed course of action of the University of Tasmania. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the House is designed to amend the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1969 to enable the Commonwealth Government to provide for increased grants to the States for advanced education. The reasons for these increases are as follows: The Bill consists of 4 parts. The first part is concerned with increases in the grants offered to all States, in order that we might meet our share of academic salary increases in the current 1970-1972 triennium, brought about by the adoption by the States, in whole or in part, of the Sweeney inquiry into salaries in colleges of advanced education and the Eggleston report on salaries in universities. The Commonwealth Government has signified acceptance of these reports. The new schedules to the Act in the main are a result of the decision to accept these 2 reports. For 1 State, Tasmania, there is 1 new element. Members will recall that the second report of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on 
Advanced Education recommended support for teacher education in certain colleges of advanced education. Teacher education at these colleges would attract the normal Commonwealth grants, namely, for recurrent expenditure $1.85 State and fees to $1 Commonwealth, and on the capital side $1 for$1 between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The second report of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education recommended that a total of$lm be made available for capital development on the Mount Nelson site at Hobart of the school of teacher education within the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. The Commonwealth share of this is $500,000. No recommendation was made for recurrent expenditure at that time. The situation has now changed and teacher education in Hobart became the responsibility of the Council of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education from 1st January of this year. The amendment before the House makes provision for this. The second part of the Bill makes a minor adjustment to the capital expenditure programme in Western Australia and South Australia by the addition of 2 projects. No new money is involved. The amendment is being made at the request of the 2 States concerned. 
The third part increases the Commonwealth offer made for the recurrent expenditure support of some colleges of advanced education in the 1967-1969 triennium. By policy, the Commonwealth Government supports in the colleges approved increases in academic salaries. Increases in a number of States have already been met by way of amendment to the 1967 Advanced Education Act. There remains, however, the need to increase the grant available to 3 States - Western Australia, New South Wales and Queensland. It was not possible in the course of the last triennium to make these adjustments which are now being made. The increases are small, but the offer must be made to discharge our undertakings to the States. The Government is prepared to support the establishment and maintenance of residential colleges of advanced education as it does in the universities. 
The fourth part of the Bill deals with 1. such college being established at the Western Australian School of Mines at Kalgoorlie. 
The Commonwealth has already made provision in the original Act to match $1 for $1 up to $200,000, Commonwealth share, the cost of erecting an affiliated residential college at the Kalgoorlie School of Mines. Members will be pleased to know that the mining industry has raised a considerable proportion of the total capital costs of the college which is expected to be in operation in 1971. This is earlier than was expected; consequently there is a need to make provision for recurrent expenditure assistance. I should inform the House that on the formula in the Bill the maximum grant is expected. to be $6,500 a year for each of the years 1971 and 1.972. This has been calculated on the formula adopted by the Australian Universities Commission for similar residential colleges at the universities. The Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education is at present examining the means whereby residential accommodation in the colleges of advanced education might best be assisted and will make recommendations in its third report. The total effect of these amendments is an additional cost to the Commonwealth of $5.7m. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate , (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
My attention had not been previously drawn to this particular statement but I am aware that similar statements have recently been made about the incidence of what are generally termed specific learning difficulties due to minimal brain damage. 
From inquiries made by my Department it seems that there are no reliable figures available covering the incidence of these disabilities in Victoria or elsewhere in Australia. The State authorities with whom we have been in contact are confident, however, that the percentageof children with disabilities of the kind mentioned by the right honourable member and who need instruction by remedial teachers to overcome their disability, is very much less than the percentage quoted. 
No figures are available and it would not be practicable to obtain any on this matter. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Universities Commission  is  aware of the proposal of the Government  of  New South Wales that clinical teaching facilities should be incorporated in a new hospital to be built at Westmead, but has not yet been consulted on the project 1 have no doubt that, when preliminary planning is sufficiently advanced,  a  submission will be made to the Australian Universities Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I stated in the reply to the previous question (Hansard, 12th June 1970, page 3649) except in Commonwealth Territories responsibility for school dental services rests with the States. The scope of these services varies from State to State and a short description of the services in the various States and Territories is given in the Commonwealth Year Book. The Acting Commonwealth 
Statistician has provided information given below. This consists of statistics for all States for the 2 most recent years together with brief notes concerning the State services to which they relate. Unless otherwise specified the statistics relate to examination and treatment of pupils attending government and non-government schools. 
New South Wales. The service aims to examine as many children as possible and to encourage those with defects to seek private treatment. It is provided by dental clinics at government schools, mobile clinics and a dental team with the Royal Flying Doctor Service. 1968- 83,175 examined; 21,298 treated 1969- 71,653 examined; 21,337 treated 
Victoria. The service aims to examine and treat children during their first school year and annually thereafter until they are 8 years old (but to continue treatment to the age of 12). It is provided at three metropolitan dental centres, by annual visits of staff to country schools and treatment at mobile units, and by visits to children's homes and orphanages. 1968- 32,972 examined; 25,483 treated 1969- 31,887 examined; 24,710 treated Queensland. School children are treated at hospital dental clinics in the larger towns, and those beyond easy reach of hospital dental clinics, at rail dental clinics or with portable equipment at schools. 
The following figures exclude examinations and treatments at hospital dental clinics: 1967- 68-27,573 examined; 9,240 treated 1968- 69-27,418 examined; 8,916 treated Sooth Australia. Examination and treatment are provided mainly for children in government primary schools; at static dental clinics- in larger country schools and by the School of Dental Therapists in the metropolitan area. The figures below exclude examinations and treatments at the School of Dental Therapists: 196g_3,744 examined; 2,878 treated 1969- 6,268 examined; 5,000 treated 
Western Australia. Children are examined at schools, institutions, and Aboriginal missions, and treated at government clinics, or referred to private dental practitioners. In 1969 the scope of the service was extended with a view to the examination of all children in the first primary grade, and as appropriate in later primary grades. 1968- 7,785 examined; . 4,062 treated 1969 - 17,460 examined; number treated is not available 
Tasmania. The service aims to examine and treat every school child each 6 months, at fixed surgeries and fixed and mobile clinics. Statistics of treatments are not available. 1967- 68-40,396 examined 1968- 69-45,609 examined 
Figures for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory are as follows: 
Children examined 
-I seek the indulgence of the House to correct an answer which I gave to the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  at question time this morning. I gave some rounded off figures for total expenditure on education in Australia and stated the current figure as being over $2,000m per annum. This figure should have been  more  than $ 1,200m per annum. I regret the error. 
-I recall the earlier question, and since then I have read the article in which this complaint was made. It was suggested in the article that out of 68 first year medical students at the University of Tasmania in Hobart, as it was put, 32 budding doctors would be prevented from entering second year because of a shortage of staff and facilities. This presented the situation in a manner which was incorrect in two respects. First of all, the restriction to 36 in the second year is one which has been had by the university for some time. The university applies its quota in the second year, not in the first year. For some years its quota has been 36. Students entering first year are informed of this. They are completely aware of it and they are aware also that, if they are not included in the quota for the second year, they will be able to continue with a science degree course. 
Therefore, the inability of some students to continue in medicine in the second year is due not to a shortage of staff and facilities suddenly developing but to an existing policy of applying a quota in the second year. The second manner in which the honourable member is incorrect is in the suggestion that all the 68 students would pass and would be applying to enter second year in medicine. As I have said, this quota has applied for some time and having regard to failures it has never been quite filled. It is true that there was a slightly larger intake in first year on this occasion but whether people are excluded from second year will still .depend on the failure rate. It certainly could not be expected that 32 students would be excluded. Being a new medical school the failure rate has been rather high. 
The honourable member asked whether I will inquire further into the matter. I expect to visit Hobart on Friday and Saturday of this week. I have arranged to make further inquiries there in case there are factors which have not been put before me. I conclude by saying that this quota is university policy and these restrictions have been put forward in the papers for this triennium. It would, of course, be open to the university, in preparing its submission for the next triennium, to make provision, if required, for larger facilities in its medical school. This would then be considered by the Australian Universities Commission. 
Under the present Government every year is a year of intense activity in education. It is also perfectly clear, if an honest look is taken at the statistics and the expenditure, that there has been a massive yearly increase in expenditure on education, such as applies perhaps to no other field. Indeed, over a fairly short period of time the total expenditure on education in this country has risen from $500m to over $2,000m a year. When we realise that this money has come out of the pockets of the taxpayers it is clearly a substantial subject matter with which we are dealing. 1 think that the efforts of the Commonwealth Government in this field have been exceedingly good. 
Having said that 1 will proceed to deal with this International Education Year. The Commonwealth Government has supported a number of international activities in education in Australia during this period. I will not go through the list of them, but I will call the honourable member's attention to the meeting of the World Organisation of Teachers in August in Sydney which was opened at the Town Hall by the Prime Minister and in which in a financial way and to a substantial degree the Commonwealth Government gave support. There was also the inter-visitation programme, under which international visitors experienced in education came not only for a conference in Sydney but then broke up into groups and those groups visited various educational establishments in a number of States. Each group did not visit all States. Each group had particular areas allotted to it. This also was in connection with International Education Year. 1 could go on with the list but I will not take up the time of honourable members at question time. If the honourable member wants any further information I will give it in the form of a letter. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate additional grants to met the Commonwealth's contribution to the costs of the new levels of academic salaries in universities that the Government agreed to support from 1st January 1970, in accordance with recommendations of  Mr Justice  Eggleston. The governing bodies of universities are responsible for determining the actual levels of remuneration of their staff. This Bill provides that the Commonwealth will contribute towards new salaries for the senior academic staff up to the following levels: 

<graphic href="070131197010221_26_1.jpg"></graphic>

The Bin includes, within the funds to be appropriated, amounts to met the Commonwealth's contribution towards new salaries for junior academic staff and certain university officers in medical schools. These amounts are also in line with the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Eggleston. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1970-71 In Committee 
Consideration resumed from 21 October (vide page 2600). 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Following representations from the Council of the Australian National University it has been decided to amend the Australian National University Act to increase the  6ize  of the Council from 38 members to 41 members, by making the following changes: (a) adding the  President  of the Australian National University Students Association as an ex officio member; and (b) increasing the representation of the non-professorial academic staff of the Institute of Advanced Studies and that of the School of General Studies from one member each to two members each. The University Council also recommended a further undergraduate representative, but the Government believes that having regard to the nature and composition of the Council and its methods of operation, the measures it proposes will provide adequate representation for undergraduate students. The qualifying conditions of Council membership are being varied by removing the requirements: (a) that the undergraduates' representative be a graduate of a university; and (b) that the research students' representative be a graduate of a university of at least 2 years standing. The Standing Committee of the Council is to be increased from 9 members to 12 members, with the Pro-Chancellor as an ex officio member, and as  Chairman  in place of the Vice-Chancellor; a quorum would be increased from 5 members to 7 members. 
The office of Secretary of the University is to be listed in section 18a of the Act, along with those of Vice-Chancellor and Deputy Vice-Chancellor, as one to which Council itself should appoint or elect incumbents. Finally the Bill provides that bachelor graduates of the University should become members of Convocation on graduation. At present bachelors are excluded until they are of 3 years standing. The Government has also approved that changes he made to the Act to give the University more precise powers to control traffic. University controls for this purpose, however, have to be co-ordinated with the provisions of the Australian Capital Territory Motor Traffic Ordinance and it will be necessary to make the amendments to the Act relating to this matter in a separate Bill, to be introduced at some later stage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
en - An answer lo Question No.  1349,  asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  appeared originally in Hansard, pages 573-574  of 26tb August  1970.  The question dealt with the numbers of Commonwealth Secondary scholarships available for  1970,  the number of students who competed for them and the number who received awards. Whilst the information provided in the answer was correct,  1  think that a revision of the text of part 2 is called for in order to remove any possibility of a misunderstanding arising over the year of award of these scholarships. A revision of part 2 of the answer is as follows: 
The number of students who competed for these awards for 1970 totalled 83,821. Of these students, 10,034 (or 12.0 per cent) successfully competed for and accepted a Commonwealth Secondary scholarship. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My letters were sent on 11th September 1970. 
The only substantial reply has been received from the South Australian Minister of Education, dated 1st October 1970. Representatives of alt State Education Departments discussed my requests in some detail at a meeting with officers of my Department on 8th October 1970. That meeting was convened by the Secretary of the Australian Education Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
STATES GRANTS (SCIENCE LABORATORIES) ACTS, 1964-68 
(a) The total amounts allocated in each year since the inception of the scheme were: 
Cb) The amounts per head of secondary students * enrolled were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Canberra College of Advanced Education Statutes made by Council and approved by the Governor-General: 
One or two matters have been raised on which I wish to comment. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment, but I will deal with that secondly. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  spoke of the power to confer degrees. He suggested that this is evidence of a trend which he saw by which the Canberra College, for instance, would develop into a university of Canberra, a teachers' college and a technical institute. I suggest that with the advice of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Colleges of Advanced Education there is a quite separate role for them. This has been discussed before. I will not detain the House by entering into a debate on that subject. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I think the proper time to discuss the amendments is during the Committee stages. 
I am not discussing the amendments but dealing with a matter raised outside the amendments by the honourable member for Fremantle. I also want to deal very briefly with this question of the national accrediting body and to give the House some information about it. Several honourable members have referred to the Wiltshire Committee which recommended the establishment of a national accrediting body for awards given by these colleges. As has been mentioned, it presented its report last year. Following that report State and Commonwealth ministers for education decided to appoint  a  working party to work out the machinery for the establishment of this national body. This had not been done in the report. This working party presented its report, which was available at the Australian Educational Council meeting on 25th May, but there was some disagreement as to its implementation. Since then talks have been taking place as there is a difference of view among some of the States, partly owing to the diversity of their colleges and their past administration of them. It has not been resolved. It is because of the need in the meantime to provide for the situation at the Canberra college that this step is being taken. It would have had to be taken even if there were a national body. It only gives a power; it does not say what degrees will be awarded. It gives the power and capacity to enter into that field under certain circumstances. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 4 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
Section 8 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: - "8.- (1.) The Council shall consist of- 
the Principal of the College; 
the Vice-Chancellor and (subject to the restriction on his right to attend meetings contained in sub-section (5.) of this section) the Deputy Vice-Chancellor; 
three members of the teaching staff of the College elected by that teaching staff; 
two students of the College elected by the students of the College; 
persons not exceeding eight in number appointed by the Governor-General; 
persons not exceeding four in number appointed by the Council; and 
if a person other than a person who is already a member of the Council is appointed, in accordance with section 13 of this Act, to be the  Chairman  of the Council, the person so appointed. 
In speaking on the second reading debate I  said that I would not give my reasons then. 1 received the amendment only today. It will be understood that the time left in the sitting is very short and that the proposals which have been incorporated in the Bill as it stands, before amendment, are those which have been considered for a long period of time and submitted by the College itself. They are the amendments which the College, after careful consideration, desires. Therefore, the Government is not convinced that at this stage it should adopt these amendments which would involve a substantial increase in the members of the Council, which is relatively small. If all the amendments were adopted the Council would be increased by nearly a quarter. 
While I can appreciate the desire of members of this Parliament to serve on bodies of this kind, and while I think the experience would be valuable, it is a twoway exchange. 1 think that the attempt to compare the Canberra College of Advanced Education with the Australian National University fails as a true analogy because the Australian National University was set up as a truly national university. For this reason, members of the national Parliament are involved on the governing body of that national university. On the other hand, the Canberra College of Advanced Education is a local, not a national, body. If that reason is relied on, the amendment has no application. Maybe the argument could be put purely on grounds of usefulness. But to suggest that members of the national Parliament are required to be brought into a local college council does not hold water. One might as well suggest that it would be interesting and useful for honourable members to go on to the council of any one of the other colleges of advanced education around Australia. None of them is  a  national college. It was suggested that there should be other representatives. I think this is contained in a subsequent amendment which is not at present before us. Perhaps I could continue the discussion on the general totality of the proposed amendments when that amendment is before us. 
 I understand the idea behind this amendment, and I am not in disagreement with the general notion that there should be involvement of the community on the governing Council of this institution. But it will be appreciated that there is no restriction upon the appointment to the Council of members of the community. Of the members who formally are to be appointed by the Governor-General, seven have been appointed, and of these, six are in fact members of the Canberra community. Six of them are residents of Canberra. The seventh is the  chairman  of a college of advanced education. Of the seven only one is a departmental representative. I should perhaps mention the  chairman.  The others are just general members of the community; they are not connected with my Department. Then there is the opportunity for the Council itself to co-opt 4 people and it has to date co-opted 3. Two of those people are professional people from Sydney. The third person is an educator from Melbourne. Some reference was made during the second reading debate to these members of the Council. lt is not necessary to adopt this amendment to secure the appointment of members of the Canberra community to the Council. If this amendment were adopted it would mean that there would be an election to be prescribed by regulation and conducted presumably amongst the general body of electors in Canberra to select these 3 representatives. 1 am not prepared to accept this amendment. 1 am not convinced that it is necessary to go through the expense of an election in order to secure 3 persons who can adequately represent the Canberra community. However, as I say, there is already provision in a general way and the Council itself has this power to co-opt. This again, with a very heavy weighting of Canberra residents, on it would enable it, if it so desired, to use that power to secure able people from the Canberra community to add to the Council. I therefore oppose the amendment. 
in reply - These 2 Bills do 2 things. Firstly, they carry out the recommendations of the Sweeney Committee which recommended that where a college of advanced education employed a lecturer who had the same qualifications or was doing the same work as his opposite number in a university he should have the same salary. This involved an increase in the salaries of these people in colleges of advanced education and this Bill provides for the Commonwealth's share of that increase. All the States to a greater or lesser degree have agreed to carry out the Sweeney Committee's recommendations and this Bill will enable the Commonwealth to do its part in raising that range of salaries. Secondly, the Eggleston Committee recommended certain increases in the salaries of University professors, readers and lecturers as from 1st January. We announced that we would pay our share of this increase to any States which adopted this particular recommendation of the Eggleston Committee. All the States now have adopted it and this Bill will enable us to carry out our promise and meet our share of the increase in salaries. This flows across to the colleges of advanced education. 
Two matters were raised on which perhaps I should comment. Some observations were made about the percentage of gross national product which this country devotes to education. I do point out that this country is very often compared with countries whose figures include such items as the following in their educational expenses: school meals, free milk, the nation's cultural activities, scientific research, sport, youth activities, child welfare, armed services colleges, radio and television and so on. We do not include any of these things in our educational expenses. If we compare our figures with those of countries which load up their education expenses with these items of course we will not compare favourably. If one travels around the world and looks at the other educational systems one sees a different picture comparatively. Of course, whilst there are problems in this country which is advancing faster now under the present Government than it has done in its history, it is in fact giving a better education than most other countries. 
Another point I wish to refer to concerns the abolition of universty fees. This has been mentioned and it has been suggested that this would be beneficial to people who could not go to the university at the present time. I do not want to take up the time of the House but I would point out a number of simple facts. If we abolish university fees we will not create one more place at a university; not one more place. To do that we would have to have capital to erect buildings, and provide recurrent expenses to employ lecturers. We will not create one more place by abolishing university fees so whoever is getting the university education free will have to compete for the existing number of places. The National Union of University Students has estimated that of the total cost of going to the university, fees represent, in the case of people living at home, about 25 per cent. For those who are not living at home the fees represent about 20 per cent of the total cost, about one fifth. What honourable members are talking about is approximately one fifth of the cost of going to the university. They are not even starting with the problem. And this alone would cost very close to $15m a year. The Opposition needs to know what it is talking about. It is talking about a very much larger figure than $15m a year. 
When they are considering this they need also to consider that one of the reasons why some people have difficulty in attending a university is that they do not want to forgo the earning capacity they would have if they did not go to the university. They could be earning money. They have to give that away and go to the university and we cannot cure that by abolishing fees, except in only a fraction of the cases. Therefore, all we are doing is allowing some additional people, a fraction of them, to compete for the existing number of places. What would actually happen in the main is that the same people would get these places. All that would be occurring would be that we are giving them a bonus whereas at the moment they can afford fees and do pay them.I think there are other ways of dealing with those who are in need and they are much better ways. This looks simple enough but in fact it is a complex problem and the Opposition is endeavouring to oversimplify it. It is not the way to cure this particular problem. It is a gross oversimplification. 
I will not take up the time of the House other than to say that if we abolish the fees in universities it will cost $11. 5m and this would be after making the adjustment of the saving to the Commonwealth through having abolished certain income tax collections. There are a number of such matters with which the Opposition will be familiar. We cannot abolish those fees without abolishing the fees to colleges of advanced education and if we did that the adjusted figure would be of the order of $3m a year after adjustments for income tax. This would involve a total cost of $14.5m a year without the Government actually achieving anything for the people in need. This is one of these terribly sad matters which hold out expectations to the people - 'independence for New Guinea in 1972', 'free education at tertiary level'. They sound simple. They can be said in a sentence and they do not mean a thing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
in reply - Before dealing with the proposed amendment and the general topic of the Bill, perhaps I might refer to a couple of points raised by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  He suggested that, whereas the Australian Council for Education Research had had  $50,000  in I year - according to his figures - the amount appeared to have been reduced to  $40;000.  This is an accountancy conclusion. I wish to inform the honourable member that this arose in the following way. The former figure that we supplied to the Council was  $30,000  a year. This was increased during  1969  to an annual rate of  $40,000.  It remains at that figure, lt happened that 2 of the additional payments of  $10,000  were made in the one financial year. This is why it appeared that the Council received  $50,000  in the year in question. 
The second point which the honourable member raised was the question of the survey of needs. He pointed out that some member of a parents organisation, I think, had suggested that it was a faked report or that the figures in it were not reliable because the inquiry was still continuing. 
I point out that this survey was one conducted by the State governments and. to that extent, it is not one for which I have or the Commonwealth has responsibility. On the other hand, I was invited to the meeting of the Australian Educational Council on 25th May of this year at which the report was presented to the State Ministers. I was there by invitation. It was, in its way, a complete report. I do not think that it would be correct to say that the figures are faked or wrong. It may be said to some extent that there is a difference between the States in the way in which they made valued judgments in relation to arriving at the figures of the buildings that would be needed. It was complete as regards government schools. 
There was 1 area in which it was incomplete. We had asked them whether they would cover in the survey the needs for the next 5 years not only of government schools but also of independent schools. In May of this year, the figures for the independent schools were not complete. It is true that inquiries are still proceeding to obtain those figures. But that is the only respect in which in a formal sense the figures were not complete. 
Coming to the question of the amendment, I state first that I hope that this advisory committee will do very valuable work. It is one of the committees - and there are a number - which will be concerned with the quality of education and with the objectives and the methods of education. A couple of weeks ago, I announced the appointment of a national committee to advise on social science teaching. For some time now, we have been supporting the Australian science education project looking at the curriculum and the materials for science teaching. This particular committee will be directing its attention towards high level research into education which I think has been inadequately covered in Australia. I have great hopes that it will do extremely valuable work.I think that honourable members will agree that the calibre of the people appointed to the committee - they have been announced independently - indicate that it is a high level committee. 
The amendment really suggests 2 things. Firstly, it suggests that the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and 
Development in Education should be a statutory body. Perhaps time will tell whether it should have any more formal structure than it has at the moment. At present it is an advisory body. It advises the Minister, who on that advice makes the final decision.I should point out that in our form of government there is at least the advantage, in having that kind of structure, that the Minister is directly responsible from day to day in the Parliament. He can be asked questions on notice or without notice as to details. He can be challenged in the House at any time. He is politically responsible. I think, therefore, that the present structure, particularly in the initial stages, is an adequate structure. The second point which the amendment raises is whether this body should report annually to the Parliament its principles, actions and recommendations. I suggest to the House that this matter is sufficiently covered in clause 8 of the Bill. This clause provides that the Minister shall report annually the operations of this scheme, giving the following particulars: 
a  description  of  each research project. . . . 
He is required to give a great deal of other detailed information, including the following: 
in respect of each research project so approved, the name of the person by whom, or the body  or  institution by which, the research project  is  to be carried out; 
the amount of the payments made. . . . 
a description of each course of training . . . 
the rate and amount of any living allowance, and the amount of any payments. . . . 
Finally, clause 8 (2.) states: 
Each report shall include  a  statement of the principles and procedures followed by the Minister during the year to which the report relates in approving research projects. 
This is one of the most detailed requirements of reporting to this House that is contained in any modern Bill that has passed through the House. If we pass this Bill, this report will be about as detailed as any report required by legislation passed in recent years. It will be broader. I think that the Parliament should see, from a report laid on the table of the House, exactly what has been done in this field, and it should have an opportunity to ask questions on it and to debate it. I think that if honourable members look at clause 8 they will find that the present provisions of the Bill are entirely adequate in this respect. For these reasons the Government does not feel that it should accept the amendment which has been proposed by the honourable member for Fremantle. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Beazley's amendment) stand part of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) It is not clear what the honourable member means by 'career courses' in social work. 
In the case of universitiesI have taken it to mean undergraduate courses and in the case of colleges of advanced education, diploma courses. 
Universities: Undergraduate courses in social work are conducted at the Universities of Sydney, New South Wales, Melbourne and Queensland. 
Colleges of Advanced Education: Diploma courses in social work are conducted at the South Australian Institute of Technology and the Western Australian Institute of Technology. 
Post-graduate courses in social work are conducted at the Universities of New South Wales, Melbourne, Queensland, the Flinders University of South Australia and the University of Western Australia. No post-graduate courses are offered by colleges of advanced education. 
(A) Graduates with qualifications in social work from the universities shown in the reply to part (1) (a) may proceed to post-graduate studies at the universities shown in the reply to part (1) (b). It would be necessary for diplomates from social work courses in colleges of advanced education to approach specific institutions providing post-graduate courses and for these institutions to decide the applicants' eligibility. 
Graduates from university social work courses are acceptable for employment as Social Worker Class 1-3 in the Commonwealth Public Service. Diplomates holding the Diploma in Technology in Social Work from the South Australian Institute of Technology or the Associateship in Social Work from the Western Australian Institute of Technology are acceptable for employment subject to Departmental recommendation in each particular case. 
Any social work course offered by a university or a college of advanced education which is nominated by an applicant for  a  Commonwealth cadetship is acceptable but these are awarded on a competitive basis and therefore not all applicants are successful. 
Review of courses for the purpose of professional recognition is primarily a matter for the professional institutes themselves and information on courses under review is not available to me. However I would suggest that an inquiry directed to the Australian Association of Social Workers should bring forth up to date information on any reviews which are currently taking place. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The New South Wales Minister for Education, the  Hon.  C. B. Cutler, has advised me that Wollongong University College will be granted autonomy as from 1st January 1975. 
Grants totalling $3,252,000 of which half will have been provided by the Commonwealth have been made available for expenditure on capital works at the Wollongong University College up to and including the 1970-72 triennium. The Commonwealth will consider any request for additional capital funds that may be required to enable the College to operate as an autonomous university from 1st January 1975. 
I have been advised that there are no unfilled vacancies for academic or administrative staff. Two unfilled places exist for library staff, a librarian and a library assistant. 
There are no residential facilities at present. A Commonwealth grant has been made available in the 1970-72 triennium to meet half the cost of establishing ah affiliated residential college at an estimated total cost of $540,000. The College will be administered by the Young Men's Christian Association. The grant for this project is additional to the sum shown in the answer to part (2) of this question. 
The Commonwealth has recognised the need for a new library building at the College and has provided a grant in the 1970-72 triennium to meet half the cost of the first stage of such a building. The first stage will provide additional reader and book space and is estimated to cost $350,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Australian National University Statutes made by Council and approved by Governor-General: 
by leave - In my statement to the House on 19 August 1970 I informed honourable members that I was considering representations about the level of benefits payable to students holding Commonwealth tertiary scholarships. I indicated that I expected to make a statement on this matter before the end of the year. The Government has now decided that the following changes will operate from 1st January 1971: The maximum living allowance payable to holders of Commonwealth university and advanced education scholarships will be increased from $620 to $700 a year in the case of students living at home and from $1,000 to $1,100 a year for students living away from home. This latter increase will also apply to students over 25 years of age, married students and others whose entitlement to living allowance is not based on parental income. The stipend payable to holders of Commonwealth postgraduate awards for research study will be raised from $2,350 to $2,600 a year. This higher rate of stipend will also be paid to holders of the new post-graduate awards for full time study leading to a master's degree by course work. Students receiving living allowance under the Commonwealth university and advanced education scholarship schemes will be permitted to earn up to $10 per week during the academic year without affecting their entitlement to living allowance. At present students living allowance is reduced when their earnings during the academic year exceed $6 per week, or $7 per week in the case of independent students. The new rates and conditions applying to Commonwealth university scholarships will also be applicable to the new Canberra teacher education scholarships to be tenable at the Canberra College of Advanced Education in 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on numbers of technical teachers employed by education departments in the States is available, I believe, in published reports of State education and technical education departments, to which the honourable member may wish to refer. Details in respect of technical teachers employed either by the Commonwealth or the State departments in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory as at October 1970 are as follows: 
The 28 part-time teachers in the Northern Territory are those in the Adult Education Centre who teach technical subjects. 
The information requested on the extent of professional training received by part-time technical teachers in the States and Territories is not readily available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3). The Commonwealth's unmatched capital grants for libraries in both government and non-government secondary schools are directed to the area of greater need requiring the greater expenditure per student. The requirements for library resources in primary schools is one of the matters taken into account in the Survey of Needs which was undertaken recently on the initiative of the Australian Education Council. Those requirements will be considered by the Governments of the States and the Commonwealth in their own examination of the results of the Survey of Needs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Wollongong University College does occupy an area of approximately 82 acres. I am aware that the Students' Representative Council expects the university to grow to an enrolment of 10,000, but no intimation of ultimate size has yet been given me by loose who will plan the development of the new university or by the State Government. 
In the table below are listed the universities established since 19S0, the student population as at 30th April 1970, the estimated student populations in 1972, and the area occupied by each university inclusive of residential college sites: 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a), (b) (0, (ii), (iii), (iv) and (2) The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following statistics of the numbers and percentages of 15, 16, 17 and 18 year olds in full-time education of any sort in 19S4 (as shown in the Murray Report, 1961, 1966 and 1968. These statistics are derived from information obtained in the Population Censuses of 1954, 1961 and 1966, and from a survey of study courses conducted in 1968 as part of quarterly population surveys, based on a I per cent sample of households throughout Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has regular contact with officers of the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics and has made various representations with a view to bringing forward the collection and publication of education statistics. 
The Acting Commonweatlh Statistician has advised that he arranged with ie universities in 1963 that preliminary returns should bc prepared, reflecting the staff situation and student enrolments at 31 March. Preliminary statistics based on these returns were published and were available before the budget date for 1964 and subsequent years. The final detailed statistics, superseding the preliminary, were based on final returns referring to 31 July and were published several months after the budget debate. As the range of the statistics developed requests were received from the universities to restrict the annual reporting to a single set of returns. In discussions with representatives of the universities it was found practical to advance the reference date from 31 July to 30 April and thereby still to produce final statistics at a reasonable date using a single set of returns. In the first year of the new arrangement 1970, summary statistics were published at the beginning of September. This arrangement will be repeated in 1971. As all universities become familiar with the new system improvements in the timeliness of reporting and publication of the statistics are expected. 
Statistics relating to the Commonwealth Scholarships Scheme compiled by my Department now relate to the position as at 30th June each year, which is an advance of three months from the position at 30th September referred to in Prime Minister Menzies' reply. As stated in my recent reply, Commonwealth Scholarship statistics are normally available by the middle of August each year. 
Most of the other statistics in the questions referred to are the subject of special collections by my Department and the Australian Universities Commission. Over the years steps have been taken to obtain these statistics on a regular basis, but whilst every effort is made to ensure timely reporting it is not always possible to avoid delays in obtaining all of the information. 
Pursuant to Sections 5 and 9 of the States Grants (Teachers Colleges) Act 1967, I present a statement setting out the payments that have been authorised by the Minister for Education and Science under this Act during the financial year 1969-70 and specifying the projects in relation to which the payments have been so authorised. 
in reply - I would like first to express my appreciation of the reasoned and constructive speeches which honourable members have made during this debate on the amendment to the Act governing the Australian National University. But underlying the remarks of a number of honourable members was the implicit thought that there was something inherently wrong in the Government, which has the responsibility for running the Australian National University, rejecting the  recommendation of the Council of the University as to its own membership. I reject that implied suggestion by honourable members. I do not think that on a question of the structure of the Council the Government automatically is bound by the Council's recommendation as to its structure. 
But that was implied. On the other hand, 1 want to make it quite clear that at all times the Government would treat with the greatest of respect any recommendation that came from the Council of the University. But to suggest that the Government, having the responsibility, could not review or reject a recommendation would be wrong. As the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  pointed out, it is not a matter affecting the administration of the University or its academic position. It is the structure of the University for which we are responsible. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  referred to the University of Western Australia, of which he had some special knowledge. It was the only one to which he referred, and he pointed out that it had 3 student representatives on its council. Lest it be thought that this is a common pattern in Australia, I think that to put the matter in its perspective 1 should state to the House just what the current position is in the universities of Australia. The number of student representatives ranges from 1 to 3. 
Three is the maximum. Some of the larger universities including the University of Sydney, the University of New South Wales and the University of Queensland, have only 1 student representative. A number of the smaller ones also have only 1 representative. These would include the Macquarie University, the University of New England, the University of Newcastle, the University of Wollongong, the University of Adelaide, Flinders University and the University of Tasmania. Those universities have I student representative. 
lt is true that there are 2 universities which have 2 student representatives on their governing bodies. These are Monash University and the James Cook University. There are 3 which have 3 student representatives. These are the University of Melbourne, La Trobe University and the University of Western Australia. I think that one honourable member suggested that La Trobe University had 4 undergraduate representatives. It has 3 undergraduate representatives plus 1 graduate representative. As we are not including the graduate representative in our discussion of the Australian National University the comparison is 3 as against 2. This is the picture in Australia and I think that this amendment to the Act in fact very greatly liberalises the position in the Australian National University, not only in increasing the number of student representatives from 1 to 2 but also in reducing the age from 21 years to 18 years, in providing that graduates do not have to be of 2. years standing but may be elected immediately on graduation and so on. 
Broadly speaking I think that honourable members who have spoken would be in favour of the advances in this Bill but would consider that in this one respect they do not go far enough. 1 would like to make some comment on this question of student representation. The Government considers that what it has approved in liberalising the student and graduate representation on the Council will in fact give appropriate representation to the various interests. The present size of the Council is, as honourable members know, 41  -  a very large and unwieldy body for discussion - and the Government considers this is large enough. It is a number which should only be increased for very strong reasons. In the Government's view in a, council as large as this one the strength of the representation of the students will depend not upon the number - because 3 would not have a much greater proportion of 42 votes than would 2 of 41  -  but on the quality of the representatives. Anyone who has been on one of these bodies knows that it is really the quality of the representation rather than the numbers which counts for strength of representation in the councils of such a body. 
I think therefore that the Government's view, reflected in this Bill, is a proper and responsible approach to the constitution of the Council at this time. Nevertheless, I have listened with care to what has been put. I did, when announcing the Government's decision, say that we would keep the position under review and consider the performance of these students on the Council and if I came to the conclusion at a later point of time that the number should be increased, then I would not hesitate to review the matter. In maintaining it under consideration I will certainly have in mind what honourable members have said during the course of the debate this evening. I suggest, however, that we should not hold up what are very beneficial advances embodied in this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  
4. 
()" (b) (c) (d) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Under the Commonwealth Secondary Scholarship Scheme separate quotas of scholarships are not allocated to particular schools. Within each State scholarships are awarded to individual students on merit. Students in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory compete within the same quota of awards. The following numbers of scholarships have been awarded each year to students who, at the time they competed, were enrolled at government and non-government schools in the Australian Capital Territory: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Commonwealth Teaching Service is being established to provide security and mobility for teachers in Commonwealth operated school systems. While it is true that the decision to create a Commonwealth Teaching Service arose from the South Australian decision to withdraw its teachers over a period of five years from community schools in the Northern Territory, its creation of itself does not have any effect on the administrative responsibilities in respect of education in the Northern Territory or in other Commonwealth Territories. 
I and my predecessors have agreed that, at some time, the present partnership between New South Wales and the Commonwealth would have to be replaced. As 1 mentioned in my Press statement of 12th October 1970, what is at issue is the timing and form of administration. I am not in a position to say whether the administration will be conducted by a Government department or by a statutory education authority. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Until 1967 the awards  to  which the honourable member is referring were made under the scheme known as the Canberra Scholarship Scheme. From the beginning of 1968, coinciding with the entry to university of the first group of students who attempted the Higher School Certificate examination, the awards have been known as University Scholarships in the Australian Capital Territory. The new scheme makes available a smaller number of awards with higher benefits than the Canberra Scholarship Scheme. The number of students who accepted scholarships in the years 1958-1970 is as follows: (In a small number of cases, a few students who accepted awards in the years shown elected to defer their scholarship and to commence studies in the following year.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of qualifications of Australian Capital Territory teachers in government schools are held  by the New South Wales Department of Education. These are not available to me foi the whole of the period for which the information is re quested. However, the following figures are based on staff returns for 1970 held by the Canberra Office of the New South Wales Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information currently available to my Department of the New South Wales Department of Education in answer to these questions are set out in the tables below. The basic records are held by the New South Wales Department of Education as far as government schools are con cerned. That Department is not in a position to allocate resources to obtaining more specific replies to the questions asked. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is is follows: The information requested is not available to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Private schools in the Australian Capital Territory did not pay general rates in the period covered by the honourable member's question. 
and (c) Information of sewerage and water  rates  paid by private schools in the Australian Capital Territory since 1961 are set out in the table below: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to provide separate figures of recurrent expenditure on primary and secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory. Information is not available in relation to (i), (ii), (ix). Information is provided on part (iv) but there is no dissection between (A) and (B). The following table gives details available on recurrent expenditure on Australian Capital Territory schools. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The information which follows is drawn from the material prepared by my Department which carried out the survey in respect of government schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Projections of recurrent and capital expenditures for the Australian Capital Territory government schools for each year of the quinquennium and the whole period are: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Part (1) of the honourable member's question requires further clarification. It is not clear to me whether figures are required for all teachers, including those who taught for a portion of the year, or whether the information is required for a sample time period only. Figures for this latter interpretation follow: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no subsidies paid on a dollarfordollar basis to A.C.T. government primary or secondary schools. However, the following subsidies are provided - 
40 cents in$1 for library books purchased by Parents' and Citizens' Associations. 
25 cents in $1 for physical education equipment purchased by Parents' and Citizens' Associations. 
Amounts of these subsidies for 1968-69 and 1969-70 have been: 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information available to me on (1) and (2) is set out in the following tables. The source of information prior to 1969 for (1) and prior to 1970 for (2) is the New South Wales Department of Education and this Department is unable to extract it with the resources they have available. No further information can be given. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The age at appointment of headmasters in Australian Capital Territory schools can only be obtained from personal record cards which are with the New South Wales Department of Education, and not available to me. However, the following information supplied by the New South Wales Education Department relating to all promotions positions may be of interest. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures for resignations from Australian Capital Territory schools in the form requested can only be obtained from the individual teachers' personal record cards which are held by the New South Wales Department of Education. This Department is unable to provide the necessary resources to obtain the information. However, the following table relating to teacher resignations in  1970  may be of interest to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only reliable source of this information is with the New South Wales Department of Education, which is unable to devote the resources necessary for its extraction in the detail required. 
However, the following tables for the years 1969 and 1970 have been prepared from staff returns available in the Canberra Office of the New South Wales Department of Education. The information covers about 80 per cent of the teachers employed in each of those years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Independent schools in the Australian Capital Territory provided information as part of the nationwide survey of educational needs in primary and secondary schools and in teacher education for the period 1971-75. 
This information was furnished in respect of each independent school in the Australian Capital Territory on a confidential basis. Because of difficulties in obtaining a clear picture of the needs of independent schools throughout Australia, all independent schools were subsequently asked to furnish information in the form of answers to a questionnaire, returnable towards the end of February. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member is no doubt aware that views of educationalists differ on what are appropriate qualifications for leaching mostsubjects. Required qualifications vary with the nature ofthe subject, the level at whichit is to be taught, andthe particular teachers experience. In practice, teachers are appointed to their classes by the Principal in consultation with them, and in this way the most appropriate distribution of available staff is made. 
It has not been possible, with the resources availableto my Department and the New South Wales Department of Education, to obtain the information sought by the honourable member. 
and (d) 
 The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of teachers awarded degrees at the Australian National University while employed at Australian Capital Territory government schools was as follows: 
1968- 5 
1969- 4 
1970- 7 
Information has been obtained from the Australian National University Administration and from that University's Counselling Service. Records for the years priorto 1968 are unavailable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is not available to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-I am aware of the report but I cannot give the honourable member the assurance for which he has asked. I am naturally concerned at the position that has been revealed. I think it is due to 2 main factors: Firstly, the number of young people who are staying on to higher school certificate level in secondary schools is very much greater than it was some years ago, and, secondly, the universities are endeavouring to plan their rate of growth deliberately and they have chosen their quotas on this basis. The Commonwealth Government, as honourable members know, provides funds for a 3-year period in response to growth plans proposed over that period by the universities themselves. Of course, universities are autonomous institutions. I would suggest that any applicant who has been unable to gain admission to one of the metropolotian universities might consider applying to the universities of New England, Wollongong or Newcastle. I am not aware of any restriction in these universities. He may, of course, apply to the Australian National University or be attracted to one of the excellent tertiary courses at the colleges of advanced education. 
There is one other matter that I should mention. Australian universities have, in fact, coped very well with the demand for places. If we consider the age group from 17 to 22 years which is the group entering universities and compare Australia with the United Kingdom, twice the proportion enter university in Australia than is the case in the United Kingdom. Unfortunately, in Australia we have twice the failure rate of England. Some say that this wastage indicates that there are too many young people attending Australian universities who are not suited to it. We are concerned at this and are making a study of the entrance standards. The Australian Vice-Chancellor Committee is studying not only the entrance standards but also the teaching methods at the universities because these could contribute to the failure rate. I would expect some result early this year from these studies. When one is dealing with expenditure, the funds of taxpayers, many of whom have not been able to attend university, the question of wastage needs careful consideration. 
-I remind the honourable gentleman that this aspect of education is almost entirely under the control of the State education departments; so these matters have not been brought to my attention. I lake it that the honourable member's proposal to have one uniform for the whole of the school system refers to one whole State. Perhaps he could take the matter up with State education authorities, lt is not a matter that we have under our consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(b) (i) and (ii) The numbers of pupils in primary and secondary grades in 1970 in govern ment and non-government schools compiled from figures published by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician in 'School Enrolments 1970 (Preliminary)', are shown in the following table: 
I have read that the physicians and surgeons at the teaching hospitals at the Royal Melbourne Hospital and St Vincent's Hospital which are attached to the University of Melbourne have refused to teach students from the beginning of March unless they receive payment. I cannot give the honourable member the precise number of teaching hospitals in Australia, but they would exceed 50. 1 do not think it would be possible to make a close estimate of the cost of paying honorary physicians and surgeons at 'this stage because it would depend on what, if anything, was to be paid. 
As far as I am aware, the doctors who are striking have not indicated clearly what payment they are demanding. I should perhaps add 2 things. Firstly, it is essentially a matter for the State Government and the University concerned. It is well known that in the case of contributions to recurring expenses of universities the' Commonwealth Government contributes simply on a matching basis. Therefore, I repeat, it is primarily a matter for the State Government and the University. 
Secondly, the honourable member will be aware that the Nimmo Committee made a recommendation relating to honorary services and concessional allowances of the medical . profession in hospitals. Of course, this would cover patient care as well as clinical teaching. The . Committee recommended that there be a gradual elimination of these honorary services. However, it stressed that this should be gradual, because it pointed out in its report that the doctors had already taken into account in fixing their current fees the fact that they were performing these honorary services, and therefore it would be necessary to look at the two together. It was announced that the Commonwealth Government, -in consultation with the State Governments^ had appointed a committee, one of the primary objectives of which will be to' consider recommenation No. 17 of' the Nimmo report.  Sir Henry  Basten,  Chairman  of the Australian Universities Commission, has been appointed as an observer to the committee. The committee has been operating but has not yet made a report,- so neither the State nor the Commonwealth governments have received that advice at this stage. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to question 2213 which makes use of the concept of 'staff change'. These 'staff changes' involve vacancies as well as appointments and the information available to me in respect of vacancies is given in my answer to that question. 
Information required to furnish an answer to this part of the honourable member's question is not available to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are two branches inmyDepartment concerned with education in the mainland Commonwealth Territories. These are the Territorial Planning and A.C.T. Education Services Branch and the Northern Territory Education Branch. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At this stage the universities are finalising their admissions and it is too early to provide a reply. 
I will provide information for the honourable member as soon as this is received. 
The answer to the honourable member is as follows: 
no land valuations have been assessed for government school sites in the Australian Capital Territory. 
there are no current valuations of private school sites in the Australian Capital Territory. Up to December 1970 private schools were liable to pay land rent generally at the rate of one percent of the unimproved value of the school site. For the purpose of assessing land rent payable, unimproved values had been assessed at the time the land was leased to such schools and in each twentieth year following the grant of a lease. All rateable land was revalued during 1970 for general rating purposes but as private schools do not pay general rates there was no cause to value their sites. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) I have no information additional to that included in my reply to Question 2204 part a (i) and (ii). 
The facilities are built as part of the whole project at the time the school is constructed. Separate costs for science and library facilities are not available. 
With the exception of a loan of $112,860 raised by the Canberra Boys' Grammar School to build a science wing under the Interest Subsidy Scheme, I have no comprehensive information about capital expenditure for science facilities by independent schools prior to July 1964. When the 
Government introduced the States Grants (Science Laboratories and Technical Training) Act in 1964, a parallel scheme for science laboratories was introduced into the A.CX Details of payments under that scheme are contained in the table headed 'A.C.T. Independent Schools - Science Facilities'. 
When the Capital Aid Scheme was introduced in November 1 965, the construction of science facilities came under the Capital Aid Scheme except that the balance of liability outstanding for the 1964 scheme was paid in cash over succeeding years. 
Liabilities and payments for the period November 1965 to November 1968 under the Capital Aid Scheme are also set out in the attached table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member can only be extracted by using personal record cards in conjunction with the staff returns of Australian Capital Territory schools. These are held in Sydney by the New South Wales Education Department which is unable to devote the resources needed to obtain the information. 
However, I am able to furnish the following tables for the honourable member's information, but these require some explanation. 
Table 1 gives the number of staff changes in Australian Capital Territory secondary schools based on responses by Principals to questionnaires. Information was sought on staff changes in terms 1 and 2 of 1968 and for each of the three terms of 1969 and 1970. Vacancies occurring in schools' establishment during the year do not include relief teachers. 
Table 2 gives figures for arrivals and departures of primary staff for each term. This includes new appointments, resignations, and transfers in and out of Australian Capital Territory schools. It does not include casual relief teachers. Information for arrivals and departures between third term 1970 and the beginning of the 1971 school year is not available. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government does not make loans to privateschools in the Australian Capital Territory. 
School authorities are expected to raise loans through the normal channels but the provisions of the Independent Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act 1969 broadened the sources of fund-raising. 
Information on interest payments arising from loans raised by private schools is given in Tables A', 'B' and 'C which form part of my reply to question No. 2204. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) and (ii) The National Capital Development Commission and the Department of Works have provided some information in respect of costs incurred in the establishment of government primary and secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory. I am advised that a complete break up of costs along the lines requested by the honourable member is not available. The National Capital Development Commission carries out ail work by means of lump sum contracts and information on final costs is not dissected within individual contracts and within the annual expenditure figures. (a), (c), (c) (i) and.(e) (iii) The following figures include expenditure on building construction, site development (e.g. roads, footpaths and landscaping), installation of heat, light and power, and the connection of water and sewerage. They do not include costs incurred for design and planning - see (d). 
The recent cuts in government spending so far as they are under the control of my Department have not affected the Interim Council which is to advise us on the establishment of a marine institute in Townsville. This Interim Council has been very active for over a year now with meetings and inspections and the  chairman  has undertaken an overseas tour. 
The Council met Friday for what probably will be its final meeting and I would expect to get the report from it next month. What the position will be when that report is considered and steps are taken to establish the permanent Council remains to be seen. There is no suggestion that the target will be reduced, but the rate of expenditure will be a Budget matter. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Open University recently established in the United Kingdom is principally designed, as I understand it, to provide adult persons in fulltime employment or working in the home opportunities for university studies whether or not they have the formal academic qualifications for entering a university. 
In this country such people are served by the external studies available at a number of universities, though students are normally expected in Australia to have the formal academic qualifications for embarking on university work. 1 am aware that some States are well provided in that respect, others are not. It is the policy of the Commonwealth to encourage tertiary institutions to make available external studies and the Commonwealth has demonstrated its interest in the matter by adopting in 1969 a recommendation made by the Australian Universities Commission that the grant to a university in respect of each external student enrolled should be doubled. 
It remains to be seen whether the lack of formal academic qualifications will prove to be a severe handicap to people enrolled in the British Open University, but failure to progress adequately is, I understand, to be a bar to continuation of studies. 
I shall watch the progress of the Open University with interest, particularly to gauge whether such a service can be successful. 
I have not consulted the radio and television stations. 1 am in continual consultation with the Australian Universities Commission on matters related to university education. 
Australian Council for the Arts (Question No. 1237) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Since September 1968, the Commonwealth Government has paid to parents an annual subsidy of $100 for each child in the Northern Territory under the age of 12, who, because of distance from a school, studies at home under the supervision of a governess. The subsidy is also paid if the child's lessons are supervised by the mother and domestic help is employed to free the mother for this supervision. 
Butter (Question  No,  2271) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
GOVERNMENT SECTOR 
Commonwealth Government: 
Fifty-one Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities have furnished details of their research and development expenditure and activities for the financial year 1968-69. This information is now being collated and analysed. 
State Government: 
Details of the proposed survey of research and development in this area have been discussed with representatives of departments and instrumentalities in 5 States. A total  of  7 departments in 3 States have collaborated in pilot studies to test the feasibility of proposed procedures for conducting the survey. Procedures are now being finalised and the full-scale survey of this area will commence shortly. 
BUSINESS SECTOR 
My Department and the Department of Trade and Industry have launched a joint survey of research and development in the manufacturing and mining industries. A questionnaire was sent late in January 1971 to some 13,000 firms in these industries seeking details of their research and development expenditure for the financial year 1968-69. 
The survey of relevant activities of business organisations outside of the manufacturing and mining industries has not yet been commenced, but planning is proceeding. 
HIGHER EDUCATION SECTOR 
Selected departments in 3 universities have collaborated in pilot studies to test the feasibility of proposed procedures for conducting the survey. Procedures are now being finalised and the fullscale survey will commence shortly of research and development expenditure and activities of the universities during 1969. 
Planning of the survey of relevant activities of the Colleges of Advanced Education has not been finalised. 
PRIVATE NON-PROFIT ORGANISATIONS 
Planning of the survey of relevant expenditure and activities in this sector has not been finalised. 
The following numbers of students, who in 1970 were attending each of the schools listed here, successfully competed for the Commonwealth Secondary scholarships available at the beginning  of  1971: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the first part of the question asked by the honourable member for Calare is that tenders have in fact been issued for the construction of the laboratory. They close at some time which I do not carry in my head, but it is before the end of this month. Having regard to the nature of the laboratory, it is expected that construction will be completed before the end of the year. The Liaison Committee has been formed, the members have been appointed, and it will have its first meeting on 30th March. 
The Eggleston Committee report recommended certain increases in the salaries of professors and teachers at universities and recommended that, when percentage increases in wages generally were laid down in a national wage case, in future they should flow on to these professors and academic people in universities. The report was received and considered by the Commonwealth Government. A letter was then written to each of the State Premiers stating that the Commonwealth accepted the report, including the recommendation that percentage increases should flow on, and would support any State that was prepared to make its own matching contribution to such a rise. When the increase of 6 per cent was announced, which was somewhat larger than many people had anticipated, the Commonwealth Government again communicated with the Premiers and stated that it would maintain its support for any State Government that wished to support its universities in paying an increase of 6 per cent to its academic staff. 
In response to that, I understand that all States except one have announced that they will make this additional payment to the universities to enable them to pay the increase of 6 per cent to their academic staff. There was a slight restriction in the case of Tasmania in that the Premier of that State indicated that this decision was related to the current year. In the case of Victoria, which was the exception,  Sir Henry  Bolte indicated that the State would not make its contribution but that the universities had recently raised their fees, and insofar as these attract a contribution from the Commonwealth, the universities would be entitled to make their own decision as to whether they would give the increase to their own academic staffs. That is where the matter rests in Victoria. The honourable member also asked me which universities were paying at the increased rates. They are autonomous institutions and I do not know which are in fact paying those increased rates. However, I have outlined the position in respect of these funds. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the States Grants (Preschool Teachers Colleges) Act 1968, 1 present a statement of payments authorised under the Act during the year ended 30th June 1970 and projects in relation to which the payments have been authorised. 
Pursuant to Section 8 of the Independent 
Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act 1969, I present a statement containing particulars of the guarantees that have been given under this Act during the year ended 30th June 1970 and payments made under any guarantee given under this Act. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  in the field of education, can read the statistics which have been handed to him; but when he comes to describe the state of education in Australia as it actually is he indulges in the grossest exaggeration. Sometimes we find writers on education who should know better, such as professors of education who have perhaps very little physical experience in the field of primary and secondary education throughout Australia but who make statements based perhaps on the physical state of one or a few schools. It is true that one can look at the absence of maths teachers here and the absence of science teachers there. One can look at bad classrooms in a certain place. However, if one extrapolates that across the whole field of education in Australia one is making a very serious mistake. It would be equally silly to pick the best classroom or a school that has a surplus of teachers and to say that this is the state of education in Australia. 
Since I have undertaken this portfolio in 1969 I have made it my business to travel the length and breadth of Australia looking at schools. The places I have visited include schools in the Territories, I have visited Alice Springs, Tennant Creek, Katherine and Darwin in the Northern Territory, and Kunnunurra, Port Hedland and further south in Western Australia. When I hear people such as the Leader of the Opposition holding forth in such a grossly exaggerated way about the state of schools in Australia I despair and regard what is said as nonsense and I will not answer that type of argument any further. 
Let us come to the survey which is the subject of this matter of public importance. Even the way in which it is framed shows that the Opposition does not know very much about this matter. The Opposition talks about the deficiencies disclosed in the survey of needs. The survey of needs when it was prepared was a projection of future needs and not an examination of current deficiencies. Of course, if one reads the survey one may be able to agrue that deficiencies are reflected in it and one may have a view about the deficiencies. But it is a complete mistake to think that this was in fact a statement of current deficiencies. It was not. It was a statement of future needs. 
Leaving this on one side - it is apparent that what has come from the other side of the House so far has been based on a lack of understanding - and treating the survey as a statement of needs over the years 1971 to 1975, it is a statement of needs primarily in primary and secondary schools in the State education systems. This is a responsibility of the States, although I know that the Leader of the Opposition and his party would like to take over and centralise in 
Canberra the whole administration, They would like to say what the needs are of a school at Broken Hill, Wilcannia or Rockhampton and not allow the State education department to control this matter. They want a commission that would go round dealing with matters currently carried out by the State education departments and centralise these functions with some officials in Canberra. 
In point of fact, we believe in partnership. We believe in co-operative federalism with the States. This is an example of it. What has happened is that the Australian Education Commission commissioned this survey to be undertaken in March 1969. The Commonwealth promised its co-operation; and offered it in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. It also asked that at the same time, because the education system in Australia is made up of independent and State schools which are educating Australians, that their needs should be looked at. The States agreed. When the figures first came out in February 1970 those for the independent schools were not fully available and those of the States were not on an entirely comparable basis. Some of the States had provided for replacement only where something was extraordinarily old, others where it was not economically viable and others where it was just desirable to replace something to improve the schools. The work of the formulation of the report was adjourned and a working party was introduced in order to bring about a rationalisation and improvement of the figures. The survey was produced on 25th May 1970 and presented to the Ministers for Education. 
The survey disclosed that an amount of about $8,000m was required for primary and secondary education over the 5-year period. By a statistical projection the State Ministers for Education calculated that if they received a 10 per cent increase each year on the amount from their colleagues in their own State governments they still would not have enough to completely raise the $8,000m and that there would be a shortfall of approximately $ 1, 400m to which they would look to the Commonwealth for support. 
Let me remind honourable members opposite again, because I do not think from listening to the Leader of the Opposition that the Opposition understands it. that this was a statistical projection of future needs; it was not a statement of current deficiencies. It was not a government decision by States that they would do what was in the survey. lt was a statistical projection. The Premiers who attended the Premiers Conference in 1 une were aware of these figures. The Commonwealth Cabinet was aware that a shortfall of SI, 400m was revealed in the projection. lt influenced the amount that the Commonwealth was prepared to negotiate with the States when the agreement for the next 5 years was reached in June of that year. 
As the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  who was at that time the Prime Minister, pointed out when he met the Premiers, the States would now, after the rearrangement of June - -of course which was after the survey - be in a much better position to discharge their own responsibilities than they were before that renegotiation of the agreement. Indeed, they would get additional moneys of the order of $800m over the next 5-year period. Instead of a 10 per cent increase which the Ministers for Education had used, the States were, on the renegotiated formula, going to get a 15 per cent increase this year. 
What happened following the Premiers Conference was that the Stales began to bring in their budgets, and certainly New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia allotted to education an increase of more than 10 per cent - more than had been set out in the statistical projection. This proportion verged generally towards a 14 per cent and 15 per cent increase. 
There is also the question of the publication of this survey. Already in the Press - one never knows why - the Leader of the Opposition has been reported as having criticised the Commonwealth Government for not publishing the survey. We were not a party to it. We were not a member of the Australian Education Council which produced the report. The Council has to decide whether to publish the report. I have no objection whatever to its publication. But neither is that my responsibility. It is entirely false to try to score cheap political points by saying that the Commonwealth would not publish it. lt was not our report to publish. In point of fact the States convened a committee to prepare a report and publish it, and as the Leader of the Opposition said it was published on 1st September 1970. 
In the policy speech for the 1969 election a promise was made to co-operate with the States and when that survey is completed - these are the actual words - the States and ourselves will discuss the assistance we should each provide to promote the further development of education in all schools'. Eight days after the report of the survey was published the then Prime Minister wrote to each of the Premiers, carrying out this promise on behalf of the Commonwealth and asking; 'What is your Government's reaction?' In addition, because the figures for independent schools were incomplete, he said: T think we should also have these figures and consider them at the same time.' That was the proper thing to do. As the Leader of the Opposition said 2 States al present have not replied, but he cast a lot of aspersions, particularly on the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Askin.  The Leader of the Opposition does not understand the complexity of this matter. This is a matter of the State Governments making a decision on the 5- year plan for education and the expenditure of this enormous amount of money. 
What has to be considered is not only the amount of money but the resources available, the teachers available, the builders available, the bricks and mortar available and the strains on the economy that may have to be taken into account. Will we get more buildings by pushing in more money? All these aspects have to be taken into account by each State in relation to its own situation and then ultimately by the Commonwealth. This is a proper and responsible way to deal with this matter. Tn the report on the survey it states: 
The amounts described as  desirable  expenditure' over the next 5 years include the costs of projects of an extremely urgent nature and projects of an urgent nature as well as others which are regarded as necessary changes. . . . 
The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  who was Acting Minister for Education and Science on 11th September 1970 wrote to each of the Ministers for Education asking for details of these categories. It is true that a prompt reply was received from South Australia, and indeed replies have now been received from all States except Tasmania. But the amount of information that has come forward varies as between South Australia and other States. As I said, the information has not yet been received from Tasmania. 
The question of priorities is important in terms of building and I stress the complexity of it. It is not simply a matter of money. We have seen that with the teachers colleges. A Bill which passed through this House and through the Senate in the first session of last year provided for $30m to be spent over the next 3 years on building teacher training colleges. The States assured us that their plans were well advanced and they thought we ought not to spend it at a regular sum of $10m a year but make available $llm for the first year, with discretion to make available $llm for the next year. They thought $10m might not be enough. We made the money available. Honourable members may recall that Bill passing through this House. What is the position today? The States' plans were prepared in 1969. When that Act came into force the money was available from 1st July 1970 - nearly a year ago. The States together, due to the complexity of planning, of getting their Departments of Public Works on to this, and of getting the labour and materials - matters on which the Ministers for Education in statistical projections cannot be experts - now advise us that they will be able to spend a total in all States of only $4im. 1 know that there are 2 simple solutions one can propose when one is on the Opposition side. One is to appoint a commission which will fix it and the other is to give just a bit more money. I can assure honourable members that those are not the proper solutions. A responsible approach to this matter requires that we should act in cooperative federalism in just the way we are doing and in furtherance of the promise made before the 1969 election. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
Since my answer of 9 April 1970, discussions with the States have resulted in the establishment of a National Committee on Social Science Teaching. This Committee is charged with the task of examining goals and suggesting desirable content areas for inclusion in new Social Science curricula to suit Australian conditions. Through the exchange of information on the directions taken in the development of curriculum materials in the States it will exercise a co-ordinating influence on these and will be in a position to suggest ways in which the production and trial of new materials may be assisted. 
The Committee's Chairman is Professor W . F. Connell, Professor of Education at the University of Sydney. As well as the six State Education Departments, the Social Science Research Council, the Australian Teachers Federation, the Australian Council for Educational Research, and the National Council of Independent Schools were consulted in the formation of the Committee, which has a total membership of thirteen. The Committee held its first meeting in November 1970. My Department is supplying the secretariat for the Committee and is meeting other costs. 
No finality has been reached concerning the proposals relating to woolclassing, chemistry, mathematics and human biology, to which I referred in my answer of 9 April 1970. 
The Commonwealth received a proposal from the Academy of Science in September 1970 for a curriculum development project in senior secondary school physics. The proposal is under discussion. 
Education in Queensland  (Question No.  2296) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have now seen the article. The matters dealt with in it - matters such as the allocation of State Government expenditure, teachers' salaries, the staffing of schools, the organisation of the Queensland Education Department, and conditions of employment of staff - are essentially matters for the Queensland Government. 
-I have seen the report referred to by the honourable member. The Government is taking a number of initiatives to assist in providing education and employment opportunities for Aboriginals. In the education field I would mention two in particular, both of them designed to help Aboriginals with further and higher education. The first is the Aboriginal secondary grants scheme under which Aboriginals are encouraged to stay on at secondary school beyond the compulsory school leaving age. Their fees, books and school uniforms are paid for and an allowance is given to their families. ] have an officer in every branch in every State capital administering this scheme on a personal basis. In the first year of its operation almost 2,400 Aboriginals took advantage of the scholarship scheme. My Department estimates that in the current year over 3,500 Aboriginals will take advantage of the scheme to stay on in secondary school beyond the compulsory age. 
The second initiative is the Aboriginal study grants scheme which was instituted in 1969, a little earlier than the secondary grants scheme and which originally was designed to assist Aboriginals who wished to go to university, to colleges of advanced education or to other tertiary institutions. It has been used to a considerable degree for that purpose but we found that a wider spread of its benefits was desirable. The scheme provides for a living allowance, payment of tuition fees, books and so on. We have extended it. I will not go through individual, cases except to give two examples. 
One Aboriginal girl desired to take up a modelling career. We are giving her a study - grant which has enabled her to attend a modelling agency. She will become a trained model. Another one wished to become a professional ballet dancer. We supported her for a year at the Kathleen Gorham ballet school so that she could take part in the competition of students for admission to the Austraiian Ballet School. She succeeded in the competition and was admitted to the Australian Ballet School. We have extended her study grant and she is now on her way to becoming . a professional bullet dancer. I am merely indicating the kinds of opportunities that are available in education for Aboriginals. I would hope that Aboriginal leaders and others would make the availability of these opportunities perhaps better known than they are amongst the Aboriginal people so that they can take full advantage of what the Commonwealth Government is providing for them. 
It is a fact that  Mr Byers,  Q.C., appeared on behalf of the Attorney-General as amicus curiae  in  these proceedings between the Metal Trades 
Industry  Association and the metal trades unions arising out of .the incidents at Commonwealth Engineering. The proceedings were on 16th March before the Commonwealth Industrial Court. It was considered desirable that certain matters of construction should be raised in the Court. These referred to the construction of section 32a of the Act, including its application to events which occurred after the giving of a certificate by. a presidential member of the Court. The Commonwealth's argument did not in any way. relate to the merits or demerits of the particular dispute. It was a question of law arising out of the construction of the section. The Court listened to the argument, but it entertained  no  doubt about the correct construction of the section. It  did  not accept the submissions of  Mr Byers  .and  in  the result unanimously held that the certificates  in  the particular case were  in.  accordance with the law. 
-I am not aware of the circumstances which the honourable member has mentioned in relation to the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms. However I will look into the matter and if there is anything further I think I should tell him about I will do so. In the meantime if he is short of Disprin I may be able to help him. 
-I am not aware of the advertisement but I will have Inquiries made and give the honourable gentleman such information as I can on it. However, I would add that this would appear to be a matter governed by State law. He did not mention in what State this occurred, and perhaps he will be good enough to give me the details of the newspaper in which the advertisement appeared, because probably the only action I would be able  to  take would be to refer the matter to the AttorneyGeneral of that State. If be will advise me I will make inquiry and let him have whatever information I can give him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Governor-General's speech to Parliament on 3rd March 1970 in which it was announced that the Government proposed to introduce legislation to reduce delays in the hearing of proceedings for divorce and to reduce the cost to litigants. 
An amendment to clause 12 has been circulated in my name. I move: 
In sub-clause (2.) (c), omit 'of, insert 'under'.  The purpose of this amendment is to make a correction to paragraph (c) of sub-clause (2.) of the Bill. In this paragraph the phrase 'public authority of the Commonwealth' is used mistakenly. In the definition set out in clause 4 the correct phrase is used, that is, 'public authority under the Commonwealth'. It is proposed that the word 'of in the sub-clause be changed to under' to make it consistent with the definition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the clause, as amended, be agreed to. 
This amendment is not acceptable. I can understand the reasoning that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr 
Enderby) has advanced. There are a number of difficulties in accepting the amendment. One difficulty is that under the provisions of the Acts Interpretation Act certain offences could not be indictable offences and to give a defendant the option of determining whether he should be dealt with summarily would mean that he could not be tried in any way if he elected not to be so dealt with. This would produce a farcical result. Another difficulty to which I call the attention of the Committee as briefly as I can is that these offences which are punishable by a fine of $250 or 3 months imprisonment are very much lesser offences than the more common offences which are dealt with summarily in the statutes passed by the State Parliaments and by this Parliament. In fact it has been customary, although this point has been taken in the Senate where more than 12 months imprisonment has been provided as punishment on summary conviction to endeavour to give an accused person this option, the position is that the Senate did not object to the situation where the gaol sentence does not exceed 12 months. There are various provisions in the States on this matter. For example, in Victoria a magistrate can gaol a convicted person for up to 2 years. I am not suggesting that this is something we would include in this Bill. In point of fact we have made provision in this Bill for the more serious offences to be treated as indictable offences. However, I do not think a case has been made out for the lesser offences which involve a fine of, say, S250 or 3 months imprisonment to be treated as indictable offences. 
If I thought that the proposed amendment would achieve an improvement in the legislation I would not be in my own mind opposed- 
Does the honourable member want to listen to what I have to say? I would not be opposed to the objective which the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  is advancing, but I would point out that the alteration which has been suggested in the form of an amendment is only in the form of the request and not in the consequences that flow. In other words, a person can request some particulars to be given but what would happen under subclause (1.) is that the court would not proceed with the hearing of the charge until reasonable particulars of the conduct had been furnished to the person charged. That is the consequence which would flow from the lodging of such a request. One could describe such an action in any way one liked, but the consequence that would flow from it would be that reasonable particulars would have to be furnished. The same position applies to sub-clause (2.). If reasonable particulars of the conduct the subject of the charge are not furnished within a reasonable time the court may, under sub-clause (2.), dismiss the charge. The safeguard a defendant has is that reasonable particulars have to be supplied, otherwise the charge will not proceed. The form of the request will not really alter that consequence. Therefore I will not accept the amendment in that form nor will I hold up the passage of the Bill at this stage. However, in view of what the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has said, I will give further consideration to the matter if a similar amendment is moved in the other place. If an improvement to this provision could be achieved I would not be opposed to achieving that objective. 
 This is a very important subject. It deals with civil liberties and with the protection of per- sons and property against violent conduct. This Bill is concerned with violent conduct against people and property and that is the only thing that this Bill is directed against. Many honourable members have spoken in this debate. Some of them have been in favour of this Bill, others have advanced criticisms of varying degrees of importance and even of irrelevance but I do not intend to detain the House by dealing with every criticism which has been raised. However, there are some matters which should not be allowed to pass without comment. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and several other honourable members on the other side of the House, including the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  have suggested that this Bill is unnecessary and that the existing law relating to the protection of diplomatic missions and Commonwealth premises is completely adequate. This certainly is not in fact the position. I want to make that quite clear without spending too much time upon it. 
The law in this country with respect to unlawful assembly and riot undoubtedly needs clarification and modification. Obviously there are gaps and inadequacies in the present law, particularly that law which deals with sit-in demonstrations, the harassment of diplomats and the damaging of diplomatic premises. There is no question about this. It was suggested that the provisions of the Crimes Act - the Leader of the Opposition mentioned section 76 - are sufficient to deal with trespass, sit-ins and things of this description. He said that it is inappropriate for the Government to introduce this legislation to deal with this sort of situation. 1 think this assertion which was made by members of the Opposition is due to a misunderstanding of the existing law. 
The provisions of section 76 would be completely inappropriate in most of the cases with which this Bill deals. Under that section of the Act it is necessary to prove not merely that there is an obstruction during a sit-in to the discharge of the duties of a Commonwealth officer but that there is an obstruction to the discharge of the duties of his office under a law of the Commonwealth or any duty imposed upon him by any law of the Commonwealth. These are very narrow concepts and entirely alien to the subject matter of this Bill. It is really a lack of understanding of the subject matter which has caused the Leader of the Opposition and those who support him to suggest that section 76 of the Crimes Act or other sections appropriately deal with the subject matter. 
Then they said we should leave the law as it is. They have said this quite plainly. They said: 'Do not change this law: leave it as it is'. Anyone who votes against this Bill and in favour of the law as it is will be voting for life imprisonment for offences committed in the Australian Capital Territory which are covered by the provisions of this legislation. We are reducing the maximum penalty in this Bill to 5 years imprisonment in the case of grievous injury to a person in the course of a riotous assembly, but although this Bill mitigates penalties contained in the existing law the Leader of the Opposition and other honourable members opposite have said in all seriousness: 'Leave the law as it is. Let us have life imprisonment.' That is what they want. I suggest this is a complete misunderstanding of the effect and purpose of this Bill. 
This Bill will modernise the present law: It will make it clear. It will make it intelligible and it will make it fair and reasonable. No-one can say that the existing Jaw has these attributes. It has been rather sad to hear some of the speeches made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in recent times in this House. I can remember the time when I regarded him as one of the good debaters in this House but when one reads in Hansard the speech which he gave in this House on this Bill one can say only that there is a complete absence of logic and that there is a strange fantasy in his speech. I fear that there has been a decline in the honourable member for Lalor. One thing that he said is that there is no right of free speech in this country. He said further: 
Any government can make this country into a police State without changing the law. 
This is nonsense. This is Alice in Wonderland talk and it should be nailed. Has the honourable member heard of the factors in our law which protect the rights of the individual? If he has travelled around the world he must know that this is probably the freest of all countries for a citizen at the present time. I have travelled through the countries of the world. I have been to America, the United Kingdom, Canada and other countries, and I venture to suggest that this country is the freest for a citizen of all countries I have visited. Why is that? Has the honourable member not heard of the principles that we observe and which other countries, perhaps some of the less fortunate, do not observe?  1  refer firstly, to the principle of absolute equality of citizens before the law. This is a principle on which we insist. Everyone, whether he is a Minister of the Crown or someone else, is subject to the law. Even if a person's conscience leads him to think that he can disobey the law he is still subject to the law. 
The second principle is the independence of the judiciary. It is all very well to have a guarantee in a constitution. In the  1936  Constitution of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics section  125  guarantees freedom of speech and freedom of assembly, but after the invasion of Czechoslovakia  3  citizens had placards iri the Red Square which were critical of that invasion and they were prosecuted. Their defence' was section  125  of the Russian Constitution. One of them suffered a sentence of  2  years exile; one of  5  years; and the other  7  years. That was the result of a constitutional guarantee, but it happened in a state where the philosophy is that the judiciary is an arm of the executive. These things are not understood by the honourable member for Lalor and those who are with him. The real safeguards for citizens of this country are the principle of equality before the law and the independence of the judiciary. 
To suggest that we could introduce a police state is a suggestion which could be made only by a man who has never heard of a writ of habeas corpus. If we attempted to detain indefinitely a person without trial - this can happen in a great number of countries at the present time - he could immediately have a writ of habeas corpus taken out before an independent judge to obtain his release. Notwithstanding what the honourable member for Lalor suggests it is impossible to introduce a police state in this country because we do have protection of the rights of personal freedom emanating from wrongful detention. This is ensured by an action for false imprisonment and a writ of habeas corpus. We have the right of freedom of speech which means that any person can write or say what he pleases so long as he does not damage his neighbour or defame him. This is where we come in; we protect the neighbour. This is what this Bill will do. It will protect a man's neighbour against physical violence and against damage to his property. Everything else is permitted except that, and that is the only thing that this Bill prevents. 
The right of public assembly means that people may meet together so long as they do not infringe the laws designed to ensure public order and the recognition of the rights of others. These are the things that we live for in this country. We expect them. They are our tradition. We understand them and we exercise that freedom and enjoy it in this country. It cannot be argued that people in this country have no rights because they are not written into a constitution, for what that is worth. I know a country which has these guarantees in its constitution and where  70,000  cases are awaiting trial. It would take a person  12  to  14  years to get his case before the courts because this guarantee is in the constitution. Thank heavens that is not the position in Australia. Our rights are in fact something that we can exercise day by day by way of actions for damages. If the authority conferred on the police has been exceeded we can bring an action against the police. 
We have parliamentary scrutiny of allegations. We do not have to go to a court or a judge who has been appointed for life. We can examine or cross-examine a Minister day by day in the Parliament if there is an infringement. If someone's premises are entered wrongly we can question a Minister. If there is oppressive conduct this can be displayed and criticised in Parliament and the Press. Ultimately the Minister and his government can be voted out of office. This is not the position if all one has to rely on is words in a constitution and resort to a court appointed for life. 
In Australia we can deal with these matters and take action. We can affect it politically. Is this not a great safeguard? In fact, in our system there is freedom. Honourable members can see that this is so if they look around them; they know that this is the position. I am stating a few of these facts to indicate some of the reasons which underlie this legislation. 1 think the honourable member for Lalor ought to appreciate these matters. 
The honourable member said that trespass has recently and for the first time been made an offence. Perhaps I should not take too much time on these legal inaccuracies. But really, even the very matter to which he referred - the arrest of the women in Victoria - originally came under the Victorian Police Offences Act 1915. Although the provisions of this Act have certainly been repeated in the Summary Offences Act its origin that it is a trespass if a person is requested to leave premises and refuses to do so goes back to 1915. Other offences in Australia go back to the Police Act of 1869 and the New South Wales Enclosed Protection Act of 1901. 
Perhaps I should not take too much time over this but it is utterly ridiculous for the honourable member for Lalor to say that for the first time trespass has been made a penal offence. This is nonsense. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  complained that there was no definition of terms such as 'offensive' and insulting'. Really, these are phrases taken from legislation which has been the subject of judicial decision of many, many years. Every lawyer knows what they mean. This is well known. To suggest that this Bill is to be criticised on this kind of basis is a completely fallacious type of criticism. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said that the Bill is aimed against the right of people to dissent. No person who has read this Bill honestly could make such an assertion. Anyone has the right to dissent. The only thing that this Bill seeks to prevent is violence against the person or damage to property. If either of these 2 elements is missing there is no offence anywhere in this Bill. I defy the Opposition to point out where there is any offence if these elements are missing. 
I do not want to detain the House on a Bill which is so manifestly moderate and sensible. It is clear that this Bill will clarify the law; it is clear that the law needs clarification. It is clear that it will simplify the law and that the law needs simplification. The time has come when we should not be relying on Acts which go back to the 14th century in England and which still apply in Australia. ' We should not be relying in this day and age on the Riot Act of 1714. We should have a simple, modern law with moderate provisions such as are contained in this Bill. 
Finally, this is a Bill which will mitigate the penalties. We have in force in this country these ancient laws where the penalty for tumultuous riot was originally death. Later it was modified to transportation for life and ultimately to life imprisonment. This is what the provision is at the moment. Anyone who votes against this Bill will be voting for the sentence of imprisonment for life to remain as the penalty for these types of riot with which this Bill, amongst other things, will deal. We want to mitigate these penalties and modernise the law. I suggest that if honourable members read this bill honestly they will on reflection support it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 3 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Definitions). 
 I have listened to the comments of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  on the definitions clause, particularly on the definition of 'unreasonable obstruction' but I point out to them that the only thing which is prevented is an obstruction which interferes with the lawful rights or privileges of other persons. A person is free to do anything else. Therefore there is only an exclusion. This has been the philosophy of the English law throughout our history. We have never set out to state the positive right, as the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory would desire, because we have realised the pitfalls that there are in this. You submit to the tyranny of words once you try to define a right. Indeed, the experience of countries which have attempted to state in a statutory form the individual's positive right has been that they have succeeded in confining it. We do not confine it except to eliminate from the entire area of freedom this tiny corner where people are violent or are interfering with the rights of other people. Otherwise they are free. I suggest that this is a much more liberal way of dealing with this situation than what the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory suggests. 
Finally I would point out, without delaying the Committee unduly, on what is a conflict in philosophy, that what is reasonable is to be determined by a court, and what is reasonable in terms of this type of activity is the common thing on which a court makes a determination. The courts are dealing with this every day, determining what is the standard of a reasonable and, in some instances, a prudent man. The courts are familiar with this concept. This is a thing which they can determine on the facts. Again in the definition, to make sure that the position of the demonstrator, the dissenter, or the person who is assembling or obstructing a street is safeguarded, it is said that regard must be had to all the circumstances of the obstruction or interference, including its place, time, duration and nature before a determination can be made that an act constitutes an unreasonable interference with the rights of others. Otherwise it is free. I suggest that this definition is not fairly the subject of the criticism which has been levelled at it. 
Several propositions have been put in relation to clause 6 which I think require correction. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. 
Cairns) suggested that there could be an assembly which created an apprehension of violence and that everyone, even an innocent person, could be apprehended or charged under this clause. That is a complete misapprehension and misreading of the clause. If the honourable member read the section as I asked him to do he would see that under sub-clause (1.) only those persons taking part in the assembly who conduct themselves in a way that gives rise to the apprehension, that is to say only the persons who are causing the intimidation, fright or threat, can be charged. Under sub-clause (2.) only the person who does an act or thing by way of physical violence to another person or damage to property comes into question. I think these persons ought to be charged, and I do not think there is any substance in the suggestion that an innocent person could possibly be charged under this clause. 
The honourable member for Lalor suggested also that rights were being curtailed by this clause. Let me point out to the honourable member that the present position in the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia is that the common law offence of unlawful assembly which is crystallised in this clause is punishable by unlimited fine or unlimited imprisonment. Let us get this clear. If honourable members opposite vote against this clause they will be voting for an unlimited fine for this offence. In point of fact, we have provided that the maximum penalty under clause 6 (1.) shall be a fine of $250 or 3 months imprisonment or both. 
The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  suggested that in New South Wales the Summary Offences Act provided a lesser penalty than this legislation does. That is almost true but not quite. The position is that there is one provision in the Summary Offences Act in New South Wales which deals with processions. I suppose one could find a tiny section of overlap in section 45 of that Act. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith very glibly said that the New South Wales Act provided a lesser penalty. Let us look at it. It provides for a penalty of $200 or imprisonment for 3 months. The terms of imprisonment are identical - 3 months. Certainly there is a difference of $50 between the fines. This does not get away from the fact that the reality of the situation is that for the unlawful assembly generally in New South Wales the penalty is indefinite imprisonment. Honourable members opposite may vote against this mitigation of the law if they want to, hut let them know what they are doing. If they do they will be voting for life imprisonment instead of the penalties that we have provided. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr. J. F. Cairns)  referring to clause 8 of the Bill asked: 'What is a reasonable excuse?' This is a question which will be answered by the court before which the matter comes and, as I say, the standard of reason is one with which the courts are accustomed to deal. If the honourable member wants a particular example one could think of many. One could take the case of a man who is stone deaf. When the sergeant reads the direction the person charged does not hear it because he is stone deaf. If he were arrested and brought before the court and he proved he was stone deaf this would be a reasonable excuse. I do not attempt to list the types of situations involved because any sensible person would be able to understand them. 
Then the honourable member referred to sub-clause (4) of clause 8. He said that any person has a right to use such force as he believes on reasonable grounds to be necessary to take part in the dispersal of a riot. This is so. The honourable member asks for authority or precedent for this proposal. This is the existing power in relation to riot situations. In fact, there is a duty upon citizens to preserve the peace. If one goes to the codes, as distinct from the common law, one can give as precedents for the honourable member section 262 of the Queensland Criminal Code, section 238 of the Western Australian Criminal Code, and so on. Section 261 of the Queensland Criminal Code and section 237 of the Western Australian Criminal Code provide that it is lawful for any person to use such force as is necessary to suppress a riot and is reasonably proportionate to the danger to be apprehended from its continuance. I think that is the information the honourable member was seeking. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In determining claims for maintenance pending suit the Courts must act in accordance with rule 210 of the Matrimonial Causes Rules. 
and (4) The Matrimonial Causes Act does not specifically provide for the making of orders requiring such moneys to be refunded. However, I draw attention to the wide power of the Court under paragraph (1) of sub-section (1.) of section 87 and to the fact that the giving of false testimony is an indictable offence by virtue of seclion 35 of the Crimes Act 1914-1966. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The question is based upon a false premise that it would be a 'simple device' for a woman to make a false declaration that she had not committed adultery. Such a declaration would in fact be an indictable offence by virtue of section 35 of the Crimes Act 1914-1966. State, or Territory, laws relating to legal practitioners would apply in the event of professional misconduct of the kind mentioned. 
 The answer  to the  honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
and (2) The question whether the provisions of the Supreme Court Act 1935-1970 of South Australia and of the Rules made under that Act enable the judicial powers of the Commonwealth to be exercised by the Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia has been raised for decision of the High Court in a Special Case stated by Mitchel], J. on 8th March, 1971 in proceedings under the name of Knight v. Knight. 
It is true that judgment has been delivered against the plaintiff Aboriginals in the Gove case. It is true also that the Commonwealth Government up to the present has been paying the legal costs of the plaintiff Aboriginals, including counsel's fees, solicitors' costs and witnesses' expenses. We believe it was the proper thing to do as it was an issue of considerable national importance affecting not only the Aboriginals in the Territory but possibly in other areas around Australia as well, and of course, the Australian people. Relating to advancing arguments on behalf of the Commonwealth, I point out that the plaintiffs had a leading Queen's Counsel representing them. I do not know what the honourable gentleman means by 'strenuous argument'. I do not appreciate adjectives applied to legal argument. I think the Commonwealth was perfectly in order in briefing at least senior counsel, to represent it and the people of Australia in putting the legal matters properly before the judge. This is what was done. 
The judge has given his judgment. I have a copy of it and I have to consider it. It is 262 pages in length. No doubt the counsel and advisers for the Aboriginal plaintiffs also will be considering the judgment and whether they would wish to appeal to the High Court from it, as the Leader of the Opposition has suggested. I think that until some indication is given that they would wish to lodge an appeal, it would be premature for the Government to announce any decision on the question of costs. I simply refer to the whole attitude of the Government in the past in relation to that issue. 
The Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill has not yet become law, although it has been passed by this House. If it were law, the 2 most serious offences prescribed - the offence mentioned by the honourable member would fall into one of those classes - are grievous bodily damage to individuals or damage of a serious character to property. The maximum penalty for the latter under which a bombing of an embassy would fall would be 3 years imprisonment. I regret to say that I am not able to inform the honourable gentleman what the maximum penalty is under the general law under which the 2 defendants were prosecuted. 
It could possibly be a very substantial sentence such as the honourable member mentions. I think I should comment that by and large the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill not only modernises and simplifies an old law but also mitigates broadly the sentences with which it deals some of which, under the old laws, provided for life imprisonment. The ordinary law of the land still can be invoked so that the appropriate, penalties that exist under the ordinary law in respect of charges for arson or damage, such as the honourable member referred to, and under the provisions of Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill still will exist together. 
The proposal for the establishment of a Commonwealth superior court is a matter which is under consideration at the present time by the Attorney-General's Department. It is not yet under consideration by the Government due, I think, to the change in Ministry. In due time the question will be presented for consideration by the Government. As to the lapse of time and any question of urgency associated with the matter, I would point out that when the proposal was suggested originally the list in the High Court, particularly in single Justice matters, was very greatly in arrears. Under the administration of the current Chief Justice this position has been altered rather dramatically. The extreme urgency which existed then no longer exists. Nevertheless, the whole problem involved a great many policy questions for the future of the judicial system in Australia. This will be very carefully considered and when a decision is made honourable members will be notified. 
The other matter raised by the Leader of the Opposition related to the Administrative Law Committee. I understand that the Committee's deliberations have been completed and it is in the course of preparing a report. I have arranged to have communication with the  chairman  at lunch time today to see, amongst other things, when the report can be expected. The matter involved some investigation being made overseas by Professor Whitmore, who was one of the members of the Committee. It has been a long and difficult task. 
-I am not prepared to make any commitment at this stage. I think that the report could be of considerable public interest and I will consider that question when I receive the report. There has been a change in the Committee's terms of reference. This occurred during the period that my predecessor was responsible for it. The change was only a slight one and widened the first term of reference to ensure that whether or not a superior court was set up the Committee would still recommend whether an appeal should be made to some appropriate court. There is nothing of great significance in this, except that it leaves it open to the Committee to recommend where the appeal should go. I am not conscious that the fact that  Mr Justice  Kerr has been appointed to inquire into Service pay and conditions has in any way delayed, this matter. I think that the magnitude of the task has been the cause of the delay. 
-I move: 
That the  Bill  be now  read a  second  time. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to control the practice known as resale price maintenance. The provisions for this purpose are to be inserted into the Trade Practices Act 1965-1969. The opportunity has been taken to make one or two other amendments of that Act which will require the terms and conditions of the members of the Trade Practices Tribunal and of the Commissioner of Trade Practices to be prescribed by regulation rather than determined by the Governor-General or the Attorney-General. 
Resale price maintenance is a restrictive trade practice, in the sense that it operates to restrict competition in the re-selling of goods. It is a practice by which a manufacturer or wholesaler of goods - to whom, for the sake of convenience, I shall refer as 'the supplier* - stipulates a minimum price that must be charged on the resale of goods supplied by him. It is a practice that operates vertically in the distributive process as the goods pass in turn from manufacturer to wholesaler and from wholesaler to retailer. In this respect it is distinguishable from price-fixing agreements that are horizontal in the sense that they are between competitors on the same level of the distributive process. Section 35 of the Trade Practices Act already covers the horizontal agreements. But in its present form the Act does not cover, otherwise than incidentally, vertical price arrangements of the kind to which this Bill relates. The present position, therefore, is that an agreement between a group of manufacturers in accordance with which they agree that they themselves will not charge less than certain prices is examinable by the Trade Practices Tribunal at the instance of the Commissioner of Trade Practices, and if the agreement is determined by the Tribunal to be contrary to the public interest, it may be prohibited by appropriate restraining orders. But if a manufacturer acts . independently of other manufacturers, he is completely free, by engaging in resale price maintenance, to control the re-selling prices of the goods he supplies. In the result, there is a common retail price for the goods that must be charged by all retailers. However efficient a particular retailer may be, he cannot in these circumstances pass on the results of his efficiency to the consumer by a reduction in price. It can happen, moreover, that in such circumstances the manufacturer will find himself under strong collective pressure from the retailers to keep the minimum resale price at a sufficiently high level to enable even the less efficient retailers to operate profitably. 

 Mr Speaker, there is no need for me to remind the House that our economy is at present subject to strong inflationary pressures. To meet these pressures the Government is taking action in several areas. It has restricted spending in the public sector and, as the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  announced to the House yesterday, the Tariff Board will shortly begin a systematic review of tariffs. In addition, there is a need for more internal competition. There is need to ensure that the prices of goods are keenly competitive. In saying this, however, I want to make it clear that I am not suggesting that the prices at present operating under resale price maintenance agreements are all necessarily excessive. But 1 do believe that the practice tends to remove the incentive to sell goods cheaply, and that, in general, the practice works against the objectives of efficiency which are so important if our efforts to resist the present inflationary pressures are to succeed. 
In concluding that this Bill should be introduced the Government has taken into account the experience of other countries with resale price maintenance. Most countries with free enterprise economies have come to the conclusion that, in general, the practice is against the public interest, and they have followed up their conclusions by legislating to bring it under control. The United Kingdom enacted legislation for this purpose in 1964. Canada, Japan, South Africa, France, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Spain, Norway and Finland have also enacted legislation with respect to the practice in the last 10 to IS years. The United States of America has had such legislation at the federal level for many years. 
The degree of control provided for in the legislation varies from country to  country. In some countries, for example, Canada, the practice is totally prohibited while the legislation of the United Kingdom makes provision for exemptions to be granted in respect of particular classes of goods and exemptions have in fact been granted in respect of 2 classes of goods. The experience of other countries has been that the circumstances in which resale price maintenance can be shown after full inquiry to be in the public interest are really few and far between. But honourable members will, I think, agree that it is desirable that the Australian legislation should recognise that there may be goods of certain kinds in respect of which the practice is desirable in the public interest, and that the legislation should enable exemptions to be granted where this can be established. 
I turn now to the provisions of this Bill. In brief, the Bill makes it unlawful for a supplier to engage in the practice of resale price maintenance, but provides for this general prohibition of the practice to be subject to any exemptions that may be granted by the Trade Practices Tribunal in respect of particular kinds of goods. Clause 12 provides for resale price maintenance to be dealt with by a new part of the Trade Practices Act, and this will be Part VIA. 
The various forms of conduct that will constitute resale price maintenance are set out in proposed sub-section (2.) of section 66A. It will be noted that in each case it is conduct on the part of a supplier of goods with which the sub-section is concerned. In brief, the forms of conduct mentioned in the sub-section are: 
A supplier makes it known that he will not supply goods to a re-seller unless the re-seller agrees not to re-sell those goods below a price specified by the supplier; 
A supplier induces a re-seller not to resell at less than a specified price goods supplied to the re-seller by the supplier; 
A supplier enters into an agreement to supply goods to a re-seller, under which agreement the re-seller agrees not to resell the goods at less than a specified price; 
A supplier withholds the supply of goods to a re-seller for the reason that the re-seller has not agreed to observe a specified minimum price or has sold goods at less than a specified minimum price; 
A supplier withholds the supply of goods to a wholesaler for the reason that a retailer who obtains goods from the wholesaler has not agreed to observe a minimum price specified by the supplier or has sold goods at less than a minimum price specified by the supplier; and 
A supplier uses in relation to goods supplied to a re-seller a statement of price likely to be understood by the reseller as the minimum resale price, for example, by having the retail price printed on a catalogue issued to the reseller. 
Special provision is made in the Bill for mere recommendations of resale prices. In the absence of these provisions a recommendation would constitute an inducement and would on that account constitute the practice of resale price maintenance. This would, in the Government's view, be going too far. So long as it is made quite clear that a recommendation is nothing more than a recommendation - that is, that there is no obligation on the part of the reseller to comply with it - then there is no reason for treating it as resale price maintenance, and indeed there would be circumstances in which the resellers themselves would be unnecessarily inconvenienced if it were so treated. But on the other hand the legislation must plainly ensure that suppliers are not permitted to put any form of pressure on their resellers in the form of legally permissible recommendations. Proposed section 66b accordingly permits a recommendation to be made as to the resale price of goods provided that the recommendation is in writing and the document is endorsed with the words: The price set out or referred to herein is a recommended price only and there is no obligation to comply with the recommendation'. 
In regard to the withholding of supplies, one point that I wish to make clear is that it will not be resale price maintenance under the Bill unless the withholding is for the reason that the reseller is refusing to conform to the supplier's stipulations as to resale price. If, for example, the reason for withholding supplies is a doubt as to the credit-worthiness of the reseller or some other substantial commercial reason, the provisions of this Bill will have no application. It will often be difficult, of course, to establish just what is the reason for a withholding of supplies. In recognition of this, provision is made in proposed section 66l for rebuttable presumption of the reason to arise when the circumstances set out in that section exist. Another provision to which I would draw the attention of the House is that contained in proposed sub-sections (2.) and (3.) of section 66c relating to what is commonly called 'loss leadering'. A reseller engages in loss leadering if he sells particular goods at a loss to attract custom or to promote his business in some way. The result of his so doing may well be to give the public an impression that the goods in question are of inferior quality, and this could be detrimental to the marketing prospects of the supplier. It is only fair that a supplier whose goods are being sold in this manner should be able to defend himself by withholding supplies from the reseller in question, and the provisions to which I have referred make it clear that the supplier has this right. 
In the Government's view, it is undesirable that the control of restrictive trade practices should be achieved by unnecessary resort to the criminal law, and proposed section 66e accordingly excludes the possibility of criminal proceedings in respect of resale price maintenance. However, the fact remains that the Bill provides for the practice to be unlawful and provision is made in proposed section 90aa for it to be the subject of restraint by an injunction issued by the Industrial Court. An application for such an injunction will be able to be made by the Attorney-General, the Commissioner of Trade Practices or by a person who has suffered loss or damage by reason of the particular practice complained of. Such a person will, moreover, have a right to recover damages in respect of any such loss or damage. Finally, if the practice is provided for by an agreement, that agreement will, by virtue of proposed section 66f, be to that extent unenforceable. 
I turn now to the provisions in proposed Division 2 for the granting of exemptions. An application for such an exemption will be able to be made by a person who is supplying, or intends to supply, goods of the kind that are the subject of the application. Provision is made for the payment of a prescribed fee, having regard to the need for the Registrar to give public notice of the application in the 'Gazette' and such newspapers as are thought fit. The application will be determined by the Trade Practices Tribunal which will be constituted, except for matters of procedure, in the usual way, that is by a presidential member and 2 lay members appointed on the basis of their qualifications in industry, commerce or public administration. It will be open to a person other than the applicant who has an interest in an application for exemption to seek leave to intervene in the proceedings. Provision enabling him to do this is already contained in section 77 of the principal Act. 
Before granting an exemption the tribunal will need to be satisfied that, unless the exemption is granted, one or other of the detrimental effects set out in proposed subsection (2.) of section 66j will result, and that that detriment will outweigh any detriment that would result if the exemption were not granted. The detrimental effects set out in sub-section (2.) are virtually the same as those in the comparable provisions of the Resale Prices Act 1964 of the United Kingdom, and they cover the grounds upon which businessmen normally rely when attempting to justify resale price maintenance. In brief, they are reduction in quality or variety of goods available; reduction in the number of retail outlets; increase in prices; danger to health; and reduction in availability of after-sales services. 
The Government believes that these criteria for justification in proposed section 66j will offer appropriate opportunities for exemption where it is in the public interest that an exemption should be granted. The criteria are, of course, much more specific than those in section 50 of the principal Act, which is applicable in the case of examinable agreements and practices. But proposed section 66j has been tailored specifically to the particular practice of resale price maintenance, whereas section 50 is applicable to a particularly wide range of agreements and practices. 
The Bill does not provide for goods that are the subject of an application for exemption to be treated as exempt pending a determination of the application by the Tribunal. This is a matter to which the Government has given close thought, but the conclusion that it has reached is that, as this legislation is intended to assist in warding off the present inflationary pressures in the economy, provision for interim exemptions pending determination of applications would be inappropriate in that it would have the effect of unduly deferring the really effective date of the legislation. The Government also took into account that the cases in which it has been found in other countries that resale price maintenance is in the public interest constitute a very real minority of the total. Mindful, however, of the desirability of enabling industries to obtain determination of their applications for exemption as quickly as possible, the Government is giving close consideration to the procedures in accordance with which the tribunal will deal with such applications. 
Before concluding,  Mr Speaker,  I should like the House to know that the Government has the whole of the Trade Practices Act under close consideration with a view to ensuring that its provisions are as effec tive as possible.. If the conclusion is reached that there is a need for further amendments of the Act, further legislation will follow in due course. But the Government has concluded that resale price maintenance should be dealt with at this stage, and not deferred until consideration of the rest of the Act has been completed. I feel confident that the provisions in this Bill will significantly improve our law on restrictive trade practices. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As indicated in the answer given on 5th May 1970 by my predecessor to Question No. 139 asked by the honourable member, my Department will undertake the preparation of a list, subject, however, to the requirements of other work of a more essential nature. Because of those requirements it has not yet been possible to prepare the list requested. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It has not yet been possible to allot to the task of the general revision of the Acts Interpretation Act the priority necessary to enable progress to be made with it. 
For the information of honourable members I present the 5th Interim Report on the Company Law Advisory Committee. The report is dated 12th October 1970 and it deals with the control of fund raising, share capital and debentures. The 1st, 3rd and 4th Interim Reports of the Committee were presented by my predecessor on 19th March 1970 and I presented the 2nd Interim Report on 20th May 1969. 
Yes, I have had an opportunity to consider the judgment, but I do not think that I should make any comment on it at this stage. However, further consideration has been given to the question of costs and, in view of the very special character of. this case and in order to prevent the possibility of any suggestion being made that there has been any difficulty placed in the way of the Aboriginal plaintiffs pursuing their legal remedies by way of appeal, should they wish to do so, I now state to the House that the Commonwealth will beprepared to give legal assistance in the event of an appeal being taken, on the same basis as it gave legal assistance in the Supreme Court proceedings in the Territory. Of course, it entirely rests with the Aboriginal plaintiffs and their advisers whether they do or do not wish to pursue their legal remedies further. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the inquiries by the Victorian Police Force into this matter are still in train. The Commonwealth Police Force is maintaining contact with the Victorian Police and will give whatever assistance it can with the investigations. 
Senator-elect A. Giefzelt: Bombing of Home (Question No. 3178) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attack on the home of Councillor Gietzelt was an offence against the laws of New South Wales and did not constitute any breach of Commonwealth law. I am informed the bombing has been and still is the subject of investigation by the New South Wales Police Force. I have asked the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police to keep in touch with the New South Wales Commissioner. 
en - Which report is that? 
The whole setup - it is a scandalous one - is to keep the ins in and the outs out. So much for the legislation. We accept it for what it is worth. On this occasion we are not looking a gift horse in the mouth but we view it with suspicion in the light of. the shocking performance and the limitations of the present legislation. As the Leader of .the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said, the Barwick proposals were thoroughly emasculated. It is only recently that the Government could pluck up its courage to the point where it would actually challenge, the decision in the Huddart Parker case, and it still awaits the result. Even if this legislation goes through and there is not a favourable decision from the High Court the position will be that intrastate transactions can still go on, The price fixing boys and the racketeers can play merry hog. 
What could be a more cynical attitude than for this Government at a time when the State legislatures are in fact making criminally responsible those who are rigging the share markets they choose to exculpate as far as they possibly can those who are prepared to rig the retail price markets. For many years the common law has been quite simple. An agreement by unlawful means to carry out a lawful act is conspiracy at common law. I notice the particular reference because the tender sympathies of the Government area always with its friends and supporters in this regard. The disabilities go further because, just as with the current Trade Practices Act, the Government has got into a position where the Commissioner for Trade Practices and the tribunal itself are nothing more than a secret setup. Secrecy is the essential feature of .it. We can be very certain that this Government by craft and connivance will do its very best to present a legal obstacle race for the enforcement of legislation of this type against its friends. 
We can take as a typical example that where even the current legislation provides a penalty of up to $1,000 and up to 3 months imprisonment for general breaches in respect of non registration of registrable agreements and $4,000 and 6 months imprisonment in the case of collusive tendering and bidding, this Government deliberately leaves the only remedy by way of injunction. Why has not the Government done the decent thing and given the right for any compainant in a court of summary jurisdiction to hail these people before the court and give them the punishment that they deserve. This ought to be done. Instead of that complainants will have all the delays, inconvenience and frustrations of going to the Commonwealth Industrial Court to line up before an already overloaded tribunal and wait their turn. In the meantime, of course, the practices will continue and as usual- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This is a matter of Government policy. 
I move: 
That the amendments Nos 2 and 5 be agreed to. 
Of these amendments the principal one is No. 5, and I will refer the House to that. If No. 5 is accepted it will be necessary to accept amendment No. 2 because it is consequential. Amendment No. 5 relates to clause 23 of the Bill, which provides that for offences against the Act - I summarise the clause broadly - proceedings shall be instituted only with the consent in writing of the Attorney-General. The Senate, in its amendment, has substituted for 'AttorneyGeneral' the following words: the person hording, or performing the duties of, the office of Crown Solicitor for the Commonwealth, or Deputy Crown Solicitor for the Commonwealth in the State or Territory in which the offence is alleged' to have been committed. 
The distinction here is that the Bill, as it passed through this chamber, provided that before a prosecution could be brought the consent of the Attorney-General had to be obtained. The view which was taken by the Senate, if I may put it to the Committee very broadly at this stage - was that this should be committed to the Crown Solicitor or the Deputy Crown Solicitor in the particular area. This was not unacceptable to the Government. It has been accepted and I would recommend that amendment to the House. It was necessary, as a consequence, to adopt amendment No. 2, which changes a further reference to the Attorney-General to the persons to whom I have referred. I commend to the Committee amendments Nos 2 and 5 which have been requested by the Senate. 
I do recall that at one time in what seems the distant past there was a suggestion that an institute of the law of the sea should be formed. Indeed, some progress was made in endeavouring to ascertain whether there were people of sufficient stature in Australia to lead such an institute.I do not think that this matter is under consideration at present. However, in view of what the honourable gentleman has asked me I shall look into the matter further but I suggest to him that he go rather to the history books relating to the 18th and perhaps the 19th centuries if he wishes further information on the latter part of his question. 
I move: 
That amendments Nos. 1, 3 and 4 be agreed to. 
In explanation of this motion may I mention that the first of these amendments relates to clause 6 (2.) of the Bill, which provides that a person who, in a Territory or on Commonwealth premises, while taking part in an assembly, as defined, and without lawful excuse, does certain acts commits an offence. The amendment which was inserted by the Senate requires that it be proved that while taking part in an assembly he wilfully and without lawful excuse committed the act. The Government is prepared to accept this amendment which places an additional onus on the Crown of proving wilfulness as well as lack of lawful excuse before an act is deemed to be an offence. Amendment No. 3 relates to clause 17, which deals with the reading of a direction taking the place of the old Riot Act. In sub-clause (4.) certain powers are given to private citizens where certain offences are being committed to take action, using such force as is reasonably necessary and is reasonably proportioned to the danger that is apparent,  to  apprehend people. The Senate has suggested that one of the sets of circumstances which are set out in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (4.) of clause 17 should have some additional safeguards placed in it. At present it reads: 
For the purpose of - 
dispersing or suppressing an assembly to which paragraph (b) of sub-section (1.) of this section applies (whether or not a direction has been given under this section in respect of the assembly), it is lawful for a person to use such force as he believes, on reasonable grounds, to be necessary for the purpose and is reasonably proportioned to the danger - 
In those circumstances it is lawful to apprehend the person. The Senate has asked us to agree to an amendment adding in relation to assemblies to which paragraph (b) of subclause (1.) of this clause applies, the following words: by reason of its being carried on in a manner involving unlawful violence or damage 
This again would add another element which would have to be proved in order to bring that proposed section into effect. The Government finds this amendment an acceptable one. The final amendment that at present is in this group, namely No. 4, relates to clause 22. This is a very short clause as it appeared in the Bill which passed through this House and it reads: 
A constable may, without warrant, arrest a person if the constable has reasonable ground to believe that the person has committed an offence against this Act. 
This was regarded by the Senate as too wide and insufficiently circumscribed a ground on which a constable without a warrant might make an arrest. Senate referred to section 88 of the Crimes Act, and a new section tailored to the circumstances of this Bill was drafted and adopted by the Senate in these terms: 
A constable may, without warrant, arrest a person for an offence against this Act if the constable has reasonable ground to believe that the person has committed that offence and that - 
And this is in addition: 
proceedings against the person by summons would not be effective; or 
the arrest is necessary in order to prevent persistence by the person in, or repetition by the person of conduct of the kind constituting the offence, or the commission by the person of other offences against this Act. 
This is a more circumscribed power of arrest than the one passed through this chamber, but the particular restrictions are tailored to this Bill. It is acceptable to the Government, I commend these amendments to the Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) After close consideration I have found it impossible to reply without expressing a legal opinion. It would not be in accordance with the practice of the House for me to follow that course. 
On the question of assistance to persons or organisations I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 2S39. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) The matter was brought to my attention after the judgment was delivered in February 1969. The National Labour Advisory Council considered the judgment and the Court's remarks in May 1969 and agreed that there should not be any proposals for legislative amendment until the employers and the ACTU had had ample time to discuss the problem in detail. At a later meeting in December 1969, the National Labour Advisory Council agreed that a committee should be convened comprising representatives of the Departments  of  Labour and National Service and Attorney-General together with representatives of the ACTU, employers and the State Labour Departments and other interested authorities. 
The committee was formed and met in September 1970; a sub-committee was set up to look at the problem in greater detail and report back to the main committee. The sub-committee met in September 1970 and again in April 1971. It has not yet completed its work. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of appeals (including applications for leave or special leave to appeal) to the High Court from the Territory Supreme Courts and Federal Courts (including, for the purposes of the answer, as in the answers to similar questions asked by the honourable member in previous years, State Courts exercising Federal jurisdiction) in 1970 was as follows: 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
The Commonwealth did agree to meet the costs of a State challenge to the validity of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, if enacted, and also to meet the reasonable costs of five of the conservationist bodies represented before the 2 Royal Commissions (Commonwealth and Queensland) enquiring into oil-drilling in the Great Barrier Reef area.. In the Clutha matter, the power of a State to authorise the building of a jetty out from shore, for loading coal mined inland, involves different questions of law and policy, in relation to which the commitments mentioned by the honourable member do not provide a precedent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)No. (2), (3) and (4) See answer to (1) above. 
and (6) There have been no Commonwealth investigations' or prosecutions. I understand that there have been investigations by Queensland police, but I am not aware whether the Queensland Government has brought any prosecutions. (7)No. 
-I am very much aware of the interest - of honourable mem-' bers in the subject of our relations with the People's Republic of China and in the enormous gulf that exists between the 
Government and the Opposition on this matter of policy. I hope to give an early opportunity to the House to debate this matter. If the Leader of the Opposition persists in his reluctance to bring on his censure motion, of which he has not informed the House but of which he has informed the Press, I hope to make a foreign affairs statement tomorrow and enable this House to debate matters of some importance. 
by leave - 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The so-called Pentagon papers are of course a selective set of papers taken from the records of the Pentagon. They comprise 47 volumes. I emphasise that they are a selective record. They do not contain the papers of the State Department; they do not contain the papers of the White House; they of course do not contain the papers of the Australian Government. They are a highly selective record, however much the Opposition may not like that fact In addition to that the so-called Pentagon papers were published, in a series of articles compiled by a group of writers, by a newspaper which has not been known to be very favourable in its attitude to the policies, particularly Vietnam, of the United States Administration. That is what the members of the Opposition have been talking about - a selection upon a selection. 
Getting to the substance of the question, honourable members will recall the situation as it was at the end of 1964 and the beginning of 1965. There is no need to go into detail but just to recall how critical was the position in Vietnam and to a lesser extent in Laos and Cambodia. Indonesian confrontation was at its height under Sukarno, Indonesia being a country with which we have a common border. Moreover it was a time of insurgency in Malaysia and Thailand. As the Prime Minister has reminded me, he himself will be making a statement tonight at 8 o'clock in which he will be developing this matter. 
In the light of these circumstances in late 1964 and early 1965 the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee of the Australian Cabinet met frequently. It had advice from the Defence Committee and from the Chiefs of Staff Committee, and on the basis of all that advice and all the information which it had it considered the national interests of Australia at that time. Of course it acted in close consultation with our allies, of which the United States of America was then and still is the most important. It would have been ridiculous not to have done this. Eventually the decision was made that Australia would he willing to send combat troops to South Vietnam. Perhaps honourable members have read the statement made by the Prime Minister some time ago in which he detailed the oral requests that had been made by the Government of South Vietnam for military assistance. It had always been known and accepted that if Australia sent troops to Vietnam it would do so only at the invitation or with the consent of the Government concerned. This is the substance of article IV of the South East Asia Collective Defence Treaty. 
After the decision was made that Australia was willing to send troops, naturally it was advisable to have the request for military assistance in writing. So the written request was  3  pre-condition rather than simply the sole reason. The written request was received, lt was not the sole reason. There were other reasons arising from a very careful assessment of the national interests of Australia. Honourable members will know of the improvement in stability not only in Vietnam but also in Indonesia, and indeed in the whole of South East Asia, since those critical days. There is no need for me to stress that improvement. Honourable members are aware of it. and I think Australia has made its contribution to it. 
-I noticed the Leader of the Opposition reading the book Pentagon Papers' when I was giving my previous answer. Someone had handed him a copy. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that he was not. lt is on the table in front of him. This is the published edition from the 'New York Times'. This is the selection from a selection. Dealing with the 47 volumes of the Pentagon papers, I can answer briefly only by saying: No. I think in matters of government of this type, we as well as other governments with whom we deal are accustomed to observing trust and confidence and I do not think we should encroach upon that principle. 
As I thought I had made reasonably clear in my earlier answer, the considerations which impelled the Australian Government to send troops to Vietnam were deep and long considerations of the national interests of Australia, carried out over months, with frequent meetings of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee of Cabinet and with the best military advice that could be obtained. Let me make that quite clear. the honourable gentleman likes to use words like 'pressure'. Naturally, this is an emotive word and he can get what advantage he can from it. But the fact is. of course, that we consulted closely with the United States, which also had an interest in the stability and security of this area - perhaps not quite so direct and close as ours but. nevertheless, a very great interest in the security of the area, as did New Zealand. We consulted with New Zealand. We consulted with our other allies. 
What we did, of course, was the result of consultation. If the honourable member likes to call it 'pressure' either way, he can equally well say that New Zealand was bringing pressure, or we were bringing pressure, or Korea was bringing pressure, or Vietnam was bringing pressure. However he likes to describe what took place in a consultation, that is his affair, but I am telling him the facts. 
I also want to stress that when the announcement was made in the House by  Sir Robert  Menzies he stated quite fully and clearly what Australia's position was, how far it had sought to obtain a written request because of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation, how far we were acting in consultation with others and how we were basing it on Australian national interest. There is no need to try to twist these facts by the use of emotive words such as 'pressure'. 
I have listened with close attention to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  tonight as I have on other occasions when he has given the House the benefit of his well informed views on the Indian sub-continent. 1 have admired his eloquence, the depth of his feeling and the nobility of his sentiments. But I have waited before, as 1 have waited tonight, and always in vain, to hear one practical constructive suggestion of what Australia should do that it has not already done. 
He mentioned 2 things. He recalled the precedent set when  Sir Paul  Hasluck was Minister for External Affairs of the Australian Government giving wheat. I will come to that later. The other thing was that he said we ought to lift the roof on this side of the House. That is tha level of practicability of his suggestions. This motion calls for the need for Australian initiatives. What initatives has the honourable member suggested that we have not already taken? I would like to hear them. The problems are enormously complex and difficult. This complexity and this difficulty is not lessened by the fact that we are dealing here with 2 sovereign governments which are concerned with matters that are occurring within their own borders. These sovereign governments, both of India and Pakistan, are seeking to deal according to their own lights with matters inside their own countries and under their own jurisdiction. Let us look at possible initiatives. The United Nations is already active in this matter, but so far it has failed to solve it. Its failure emphasises what I have been saying. On 19th July U Thant proposed to both India and Pakistan that representatives of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees be deployed at specific points on both sides of the East Pakistan border to facilitate repatriation of refugees. This suggestion has not been accepted by the parties. In particular, it has been rejected by India. 
On 20th July U Thant expressed apprehension about the deterioration in the security situation. He suggested that the United Nations Security Council was in a position to consider the situation and to reach some agreed conclusions as to measures which might be taken. India rejected this suggestion. It is - believed that members of the Security Council have informally discussed together U Thant's initiative but they have not taken the matter up. Indeed, they appear to have taken the view that a debate would be ineffectual and might possibly be harmful. Of course, Australia is not a member of the Security Council at this point. What are the other initiatives? None has been suggested from honourable members on the other side of the House. There have been proposals for consultation under the aegis of the British Commonwealth. After all, India and Pakistan, as well as Australia, are members of the Commonwealth. But these, proposals have proved fruitless. 
What other initiatives are open? Australia can, of course, bring to bear in the interests of peace such influence as it has with either or both of the parties. They are both friends of ours. This House may rest assured that to the extent that it might be fruitful or productive in the interests of order and peace this has been done. There have been communications with both parties from the Australian Government. In the case of Pakistan alone, these include 4 communications at the level of Prime Minister to  President.  Do not think for one moment that the Australian Government has not been taking such initiatives as it can. We have done even more than the honourable member for Fremantle has even thought of suggesting. It is not the Government's practice, of course, to reveal the contents of confidential messages between heads of government, and I shall not do so. I do not think that the even. of our influence with the parties is likely to be increased if I start revealing the contents of the confidential communications between heads of government. We do not increase our influence by taking that kind of action, but at least I feel 1 can say to this House 2 things:  President  Yahya Khan has publicly expressed his intention of transferring power, in an orderly way and in a stable environment, to democratic civilian institutions. We hope that he can achieve this. 
-I appreciate the facts that perhaps the honourable member wishes to call attention to by interjecting. But we hope that in the long run  President  Yahya Khan can achieve his purpose. If it cannot be achieved it is difficult to see the end of the road in Pakistan. The second thing is that the Australian Government is well aware of the widespread concern arising from the trial of Sheik Mujibur Rahman which is at present being conducted in Pakistan. 
We hope that the  President  will exercise magnanimity and compassion in dealing with the Sheik. The Prime Minister sent a message to the  President  about the Sheik's trial as lately as 13th August. I think that I should inform the House of these facts. 
Honourable members will be aware that India has signed a treaty of peace, friendship and co-operation with the Soviet Union on 9th August. Naturally we are studying this treaty closely to assess its possible implications for the presence of the Soviet Union on the Indian sub-con tinent and in the Indian Ocean. However, leaving that to one side, current international opinion appears to be that presently this treaty will operate as a stabilising and restraining influence on the current situation between India and Pakistan and that those pressures to which the honourable member for Fremantle referred - pressures on India to take some action - may, by this treaty, to some extent be stabilised and restrained. 
Let me say a word or two about aid because one of the suggestions which the honourable member put was that the Government, in its aid programme, had been pussy-footing or lagging in comparison with what has been done in the past. Without too much detail I should like to refer to the course of events. On 19th May the Secretary-General of the United Nations issued an appeal for international assistance. The Australian Foreign Affairs Department had already prepared contingency plans and the Prime Minister's announcement on 27th May of the first portion of our aid of $500,000 was the third pledge of aid. Australia was the third country to pledge aid in this situation. On 8th June the Government announced thai it would provide up to another $500,000, making a total aid pledge of Sim. Aid to the value of 908,500 has since been delivered to the refugee areas in India and 5 ambulances worth S39.500 are en route. They have not arrived yet because they are going by sea. However they will arrive shortly. We are currently consulting with the Indian authorities about the balance of approximately S52.000. 
The offer of further aid was considered and, of course, we came to the question of wheat, which has interested the honourable member for Fremantle. We made a substantial offer of wheat worth over SI. 5m, but wheat was not wanted. It is well to refer to this earlier offer. The Indian Government did not want wheat and the offer was not accepted, fi was because India did not want wheat that we looked to alternatives. We then gave the rice to which I referred in my foreign affairs statement this afternoon. This gift of rice is worth $500,000. It is made under the Food Aid Convention. Private organisations in Australia also have made a massive effort and a massive contribution. The way in which this aid has been given has been extremely effective. It has been suggested that in some way it was slow or late. Let me refer to a statement made by the League of Red Cross Societies. This is a body as experienced as any in dealing with emergency relief and this statement appeared in a report issued to the United Nations Economic and Social Council on 6th July this year. The statement reads: 
Owing to pressure from the general public, there is a strong and understandable temptation for donor governments and voluntary agencies - and even sometimes intergovernmental organisations - to rush supplies and personnel to the disaster area without really knowing whether this assistance is needed or has priority. It should be realised that quick help is not always double help, lt must also be realised that the main principle of disaster relief is to bring to the victims the help they really need. It is not to bring any kind of help, however well intended. Supplies, equipment and personnel should only be sent with the express consent of the disaster country, or if it is obvious that they are needed, lt is often difficult for authorities and voluntary, agencies of a disaster stricken country to refuse assistance offered, even though it may not be needed. 
There has been the spectacle of a Qantas aircraft arriving with supplies properly addressed, properly documented and proper arrangements made for the refrigeration of cholera vaccine, because in high temperatures it cannot be left out for more than quarter of an hour otherwise it becomes useless. Arrangements were made to enable the supplies to go direct to the destination. The plastic equipment foi buildings was precisely what was wanted. The milk and other supplies that Australia sent were precisely what had been asked for and they went directly to their destination. On the other hand a charter aircraft from a well-intentioned person arrived at the airport. The person alighted at the airport and no-one was there to receive him. He tried to make inquiries as to what he should do. Eventually he was assisted in unloading the aircraft, but the supplies were left at the side of the airport. It is absolutely essential to deal with the proper governmental authorities on these occasions to plan what is to be done and to do it effectively. This is what Australia has done. 
There has been criticism of the Government's action - criticism which I believe is entirely unjustified in this case. It is appropriate that I read from a cable which I received today from India. It states: 
Although relatively small in magnitude Australia's timely refugee relief has been greatly appreciated by the Government of India and by the Government of the States directly concerned. This gratitude has been expressed on numerous occasions by Indian Ministers and  senior  officials, both privately and publicly. Apart from the humanitarian aspect of the relief aid our  contribunon  has had a very valuable impact on IndoAustralia relations generally, out of all proportion to its magnitude. We were correct in our early decision to deal directly with the Indian Gin urnment, to consult wilh it about what waa u anted and where it was wanted. Each air lift of our relief supplies was well-planned and executed. Thereby we avoided the delays and frustrations suffered by other governments and agencies. Moreover Indian Government officials had the feeling that we are working wilh them and not supervising or directing them and we  have  been overwhelmed with thanks. 
This was a rather lengthy message and I shall skip some of it but it also slates: 
The plastic polyfabric material supplied by Australia was particularly successful. We have inspected camps largely constructed from it in Tripura, Assam and West Bengal. Ii has saved many lives and international agencies and other donor governments are now providing similar material. And as for our medical supplies, they have been well-selected and packaged and are being put to good use. 
It is very easy to try to make u little political capital from the present situation. I am nol speaking about the honourable member for Fremantle when I make this reference, but there have been occasions when the Press has interviewed people who have been prepared to say that in some way our aid was not being properly directed, These criticisms have been grossly exaggerated in the present case. It may be that more assistance will be needed. The Government is deeply concerned, as is the honourable member for Fremantle, with all aspects of this situation, both the question of peace and the question of human suffering. The Government will continue to keep under review all practicable ways of using its influence for peace and all practicable ways within its resources of assisting those who are suffering at this time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In relation to Part A of the answer given by my predecessor, the following international conventions have ben drawn up under the auspices of the General Assembly of the United Nations and of the Specialised Agencies: 
Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Seabed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof. 
This Treaty was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly 7th December 1970. Australia supported the drawing up of the Treaty and signed it subject to ratification 11th February 1971. The Treaty has not yet entered into force. 
Convention on Psychotropic Substances 1971. 
This Convention was endorsed by the United Nations General Assembly 20th May 1971. The Convention has not yet entered into force. Australia supported the drawing up of the Convention and the question of Australia's becoming a party is under consideration. 
Item Nos. 57, 58, 59, 62, 73, 77 and 84. 
The question of Australia's becoming a party to these Conventions is presently under consideration. 
Item No. 74. 
Australia become a party to this Convention 19th June 1970. 
Item No. 87. 
Australia has ratified this Convention and will be a party as from 15th June 1972. 
Item No. 97. 
Australia became a party to this Convention 12th November 1970. 
Item Nos. 99, 100, and 101. 
Australia has not ratified these Conventions because Australian law and practice is not in accord with their provisions. 
Australia supported the adoption of the following ILO Conventions as indicated. The question of Australia's becoming a party to these Conventions is under consideration. None of the Conventions has entered into force: 
Minimum Wage Fixing Convention No. 131 1970. adopted at Geneva 22nd June 1970. 
Holidays with Pay (Revised) Convention No. 132 1970, adopted at Geneva 24th June 1970. 
Accommodation of Crews (Supplementary Provisions) Convention No. 133 1970, adopted at Geneva 30th October 1970. 
Prevention of Accidents (Seafarers) Convention No. 134 1970, adopted at Geneva 30 October 1970. 
Workers Representatives Convention No. 13S 1971, adopted at Geneva 21st June 1971. 
Benzene Convention No. 136 1971, adopted at Geneva 21st June 1971. 
To 'Name and Date' of Item No. 116 add: Prototol further amending the 1929 Convention for the Unification of Rules Relating to International Carriage by Air 8th Marin 1971. 
Item No. 118. 
Australia became a party to this Convention 20th September 1970. 
Hague Convention for the Suppression of the Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft. 
This Convention was concluded under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organisation at The Hague 16th December 1970. Australia supported the drawing up of this Convention and signed it subject to ratification 15th June 1971. The Convention has not yet entered into force, (vii) Protocol of Amendment to Article SO  (A)  of the Convention on International Civil Aviation (Chicago 1944) 12th March 1971, New York. 
Australia supported the drawing up of the Protocol which has not yet entered into force. The question of Australia's becoming a party to the Protocol is under consideration. 
To 'Name and Date' of Item No. 132 add: Constitution of the Universal Postal Union with Final Protocol 10th July 1964;; Additional Protocol to the constitution of the Universal Postal Union 14 November 1969; General Regulations of the Universal Postal Union with Final Protocol 14th November 1969; Universal Postal Convention with Final Protocol and Detailed Regulations 14th November 1969. 
Australia supported the drawing up of the convention, which replaced those previously listed. The Convention entered into force 1 July 1971. It has been decided that Australia should ratify this Convention. 
To 'Name and Date' of Item Nos 133 to 140 add '14 November 1969'. 
Australia supported the drawing up of the Agreement of 14 November 1969 under Item 134. It has been decided that Australia should ratify this Agreement. The name of the Agreement of 14 November 1969 under Item No. 136 has been changed to 'Agreement concerning Giro Transfers with Detailed Regulations.' The name of the Agreement of 14 November 1969 under Item No. 139 has been changed to 'Agreement concerning International Savings wilh Detailed Regulations.' 
Item Nos 157 and 158. 
Australia signed these Conventions subject to ratification 17 December 1970. 
In relation to Part B of the answer given by my predecessor, Australia has become a party to the following additional transport convention: 
Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft, 1963. 
In relation to Part C of the answer given by my predecessor the following information is provided: 
Item No. 28. 
Australia has become a party to this Con.venction and it should be deleted from Part C. See now under Part A to this answer. 
Item No. 17 - to column headed 'Parties' add: Hungary 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
lt would not be appropriate for the Australian Government to comment on allegations by a private organisation in the United States relating to aspects of United States policy. 
The honourable member's question does, however, afford me an opportunity to state that the Australian Government holds in high regard the loyal and courageous hill people of Laos, the Meo, who have worked in close harmony with the Royal Laotion Government in a united resistance to the aggression by North Vietnam against their country. 
The Australian Government shares the honourable member's concern about the fate of beleaguered' peoples who have requested our support It is precisely this concern that has informed the Government's policy towards the Republic of Vietnam. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The subjects suggested by the honourable member will be taken into account when the matter is being considered. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The present facts of the administration of Tibet are that Tibet is an autonomous region within the People's Republic of China and is administered by a revolutionary committee responsible to the government of the People's Republic of China. 
In October 1950, Communist Chinese troops moved into Tibet to establish the authority of the then recently established People's Republic of China. On 23rd May 1951, an Agreement between the authorities in Peking and in Lhasa was signed. This Agreement stated that: the Tibetan people have the right of exercising national regional autonomy under the unified leadership of the Central People's Government.' 
A rebellion in Tibet in March 1959 was put down by the PRC Central Government, which issued an Order on 28th March dissolving the Tibetan local government and establishing in its place a 'Preparatory Committee of the Tibetan Autonomous Region'. This order expressed the hope that the Committee would 'lead all the people of Tibet  . . to unite as one and to make common effort to assist the People's Liberation Army to put down the rebellion quickly, to consolidate national defence, to assert the interests of the people of all nationalities, to declare social order and to strive for the building of the new democratic and socialist Tibet'. 
On 9th April 1959, the then Acting Minister for External Affairs,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, stated with reference to the Tibetan people: They have our utmost sympathy and we sympathise also with our Asian neighbours who are living under like threat of fear of suppression or aggression.' 
As to the expressed aims of the Government of Pakistan,  President  Yahya Khan said in a broadcast on 26th March: ' ... my main aim remains the same, namely, transfer of power to the elected representatives of the people. As soon as the situation permits I will take fresh steps towards the achievement of this objective.' 
In answer to a question in the House of Representatives on 22nd April, the Prime Minister outlined the Australian Government's attitude in the following terms: 'We regard this as a matter for the Pakistan Government itself, as the legitimate Government of both East and West Pakistan  . . We also welcome the statement by the  President  of Pakistan that he will try to ensure that civil power is resumed as soon as possible. We hope that he can very quickly put his statement into practice and, above all, we express the view that there should be no more loss of life and that the leaders of the Awami League should be given full authority, civilly, to represent their people in the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan.' 
The answer ro the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In general, the Australian Government has believed that the effective functioning of the United Nations might have requirements different from and deeper than Charter review. In bis statement to the General Assembly of the United Nations on 23rd September 1970, for example, the then Foreign Minister said that it was noi basically the Charter which was at fault, but that it was necessary for all Member States to use the Organisation and apply the Charter. The Government is nevertheless continuing to keep the matter under review especially in the context of the Secretary-General's request to Members to submit suggestions by 1st July, 1972. A decision as to whether Australia will submit proposals will be taken nearer that time. 
As indicated in the answer to question 984, the Government appreciates that serious and informed public discussion, voluntarily undertaken by persons who are interested in the study of the United Nations' Charter and the functioning of the United Nations system, could serve a useful purpose. The proposals which Member States submit to the Secretary-General by 1st July 1972, in response to his request, will subsequently be available in a United Nations' document and will then be the basis for further consideration of this subject. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
R. Gronowski 
No- a Polish language publication. 
Approximately 6,000. 

 Mr Edward Malczyk 
and (6) I understand that the Polish Consulate-General in Sydney has written to some Australian agencies of a Polish Government Bank, requesting them to discontinue placing advertisement in the 'Polish Weekly'. The stated ground for the request was that the 'Polish Weekly" was pursuing an editorial policy contrary to the trade publicity policy of the Bank. 
The action of the Polish Consulate-General was not contrary to Australian law and it would not seem appropriate for the Australian Government to intervene in the matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of the scope of the question and the necessity to approach other Commonwealth Departments and State Authorities, complete information regarding the cost of protecting premises is not yet available. 
The following particulars can, however, be supplied at the present time: 
Cost of Repair 1966- 67 Nil 1967- 68 Nil 
1968- 69 $5,270 
Repairs to the Embassy of the USSR and removal of paint slogans from the Spanish Chancery, Canberra. 
1969- 70 $597.91 
Replacement of light fittings at the Embassy of the USSR and the restoration of footpaths. 
1970- 71 $4,461 
Representing replacement of damaged Yugoslav furniture and fittings of the Yugoslav Consulate-General in Melbourne, ($4,100) and the removal of paint graffiti from the walls of Embassies in Canberra as follows: 
South African Embassy $174.00 British High Commission 32.00 Embassy of Portugal . . 155.00 1971- 72 $26,313 (to date) 
Repairs to Embassy of the USSR and replacement of furniture and finings. $25,000 
Repairs in the Yugoslav ConsulateGeneral, Melbourne. $40.00 
Painting out graffiti on walls of the South African Embassy. 
Cost of Protection 
In respect of Embassies in Canberra, separate guarding - costs for each year are not available, but the overall cost to 2nd May 1971, was $173,506. Present weekly costs are $7,284. 
In respect of Consular Posts in the various Stales, detailed estimates of guarding costs are not yet to hand. However, facilities provided by the Western Australian Police have cost $220 over the past 3 years. In Victoria the costs of the Victorian Police of guarding Consular premises have been: 1966 No figures available 
1967 $2,610 
1968 $2,714 
1969 $2,919 
1970 $15,179 
1971 $16,359 (to 2nd May 1971). 
The Commonwealth Police in Melbourne expended $9,860 in 1970-71 on protecting the Yugoslav Consul-General 
 The answer provided by the Attorney-General to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Any action under the Trade Practices Act would need to be taken by the Commissioner of Trade Practices, whose attention has been directed to the question. Before taking any action the Commissioner would need to be satisfied of the existence of an examinable agreement or examinable practice and that the agreement or practice was contrary to the public interest. 
Trade Practices: Petroleum Industry (Question No. 2298)  Mr Grassby  asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Will he have carried out an investigation ot the petroleum industry to ensure that restrictive trade practices have not been and will not be Instituted to destroy independent traders in petroleum products who refine and sell fuel? 
ls the petroleum industry increasingly influenced by monopoly and restrictive practices; if so, do the activities of independent traders ensure a modicum of competition? 
en -  The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The Trade Practices Act makes specific provision for inquiries by the Trade Practices Tribunal into whether persons are engaging in restrictive trade practices and whether those practices are contrary to the public interest Any such enquiry has to be instituted by the Commissioner of Trade Practices whose attention has been directed to this question. 
For the reasons mentioned in the answer to part (1) of the question, it would be inappropriate to provide an answer to part (2). 
 The answer provided by the Attorney-General to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In November 1970 the South Australian Government introduced The Commonwealth Powers (Trade Practices) Bill 1970, the purpose of which was to give the Commonwealth plenary power to legislate with respect to trade practices in South Australia. The South Australian Government consulted with the Commonwealth in the course of the preparation of the Bill. The Bill was passed by the Legislative Assembly of the South Australian Parliament, but certain amendments were made to it by the Legislative Council, as a result of which the Bill was not proceeded with. 
The answer provided by the Attorney-General to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen the report referred to in the question. It would be inappropriate for me to express a legal opinion in relation to the matters mentioned in the report. However, I draw the honourable member's attention to section 66b of the Trade Practices Act, which defines resale price maintenance so as to include a refusal to supply goods unless they are sold at a recommended price. 
Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Acts (Question No. 2974)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
In giving his answer on the matters discussed at the meeting of the Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral on 7th March 1969 (Hansard, 24th September 1969, page 1922), why did he omit information on the decision to amend the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Acts (Hansard, 17th March 1971, page 1063)? 
en - The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I understand that my predecessor had regard to the following considerations: 
The Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Acts are administered by the Mines Ministers; 
The agreement of the Standing Committee to the proposed amendments was expressly subject to concurrence of the Mines Ministers; 
Recognizing the responsibility of the Mines Ministers, the Standing Committee had not referred to the matter in its press statements, nor, when the answer of 24th September 1969 was given, had the amending legislation been introduced in any jurisdiction. 
Meat Wrapping at Alice Springs (Question No. 3254) 
Pursuant to section 105 of the Trade Practices Act 1965-1971 I present the fourth annual report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices with respect to his operations during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
 The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
The matter is still under consideration'. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2)- 
-I have seen Press reports of a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition and I have obtained a copy of the statement which he issued to the Press. May I say at once that the Prime Minister tabled the letters concerned in this House at 2.15 p.m. yesterday? The Leader of the Opposition subsequently addressed this House and did not make any reference to this here where, of course, any inaccuracy would immediately have been detected and could have been corrected. The facts are those which have been stated quite recently by the Prime Minister, in a statement issued as late as 22nd June, and last Wednesday in this House I stated the facts again. 1 will not go over them again, but T remind the House broadly of them. 
In late 1964 and early 1965 there was constant consultation between the South Vietnamese Government and the Australian Government, and the United States Government and the Australian Government and our other allies. Over this period there were a number of oral requests from the South Vietnamese Government for military assistance. In fact, it was always known and accepted that in the event of a decision to send trops to Vietnam, because of Article IV of the South East Asia Collective Defence Treaty Australia would require a written request. Subsequently that request was obtained. 
In case the Leader of the Opposition thinks that it was represented in 1965 or at any time subsequently that we had, in his words, reacted hastily, as it were, to an urgent request and that we had not said that we acted in collaboration with the United States, I think I should remind him and the House that quite the contrary is the fact. In the very first statement in this House and subsequently the facts were put to the nation. I remind the House of what  Sir Robert  Menzies said in announcing the decision on 29th April 1965. After referring to the receipt of the request, he said: 
We have decided - this has been after close consultation with the Government of the United States- 
The Leader of the Opposition regrets that we did not refer to our collaboration with the United States -  to provide an infantry battalion for service in South Vietnam. In case there is any misunderstanding, I think I should say,  Sir, that  we decided in principle some time ago - weeks and weeks ago - that we would be willing to do this if we received the necessary request from the Government of South Vietnam and the necessary collaboration with the United States. This is not to be regarded as something that has suddenly arisen out of more recent events. [ suggest that, knowing the true facts as he must, the Leader of the Opposition ought not to endeavour to twist or misrepresent them. 
In reply to the speech of the honourable member, and dealing first with 1962, there was a request but I am not saying it was a request in writing because that would be irrelevant, and ( do not propose to say. There was a request in 1962 for advisers. This did not fall within Article IV of the treaty and it is, therefore, not my intention to deal further with that. It is an irrelevant matter. So far as subsequent troops are concerned, again what was done was in accordance, in the Government's view, with Article IV of the treaty so far as it applied to the protocol state of South Vietnam. I do not accept that there is any criticism of the Government in respect of the subsequent despatch of troops. As to the conversations which took place between our Ambassador in Saigon and the Prime Minister of South Vietnam there is, of course, a record of those conversation. As the Leader of the Opposition very well knows, it is not the practice to table these confidential reports which we receive from our posts around the world and I certainly do not intend to change the practice. Therefore, I will not table that document. So far as the reference to the statement made by  Sir Paul  Hasluck is concerned, I have not recently referred to this but I take the Leader of the Opposition to be referring to the fact that in the United Nations one has an obligation to lodge certain arrangements, such as treaty arrangements. 
No, there is no obligation under the SEATO treaty to table the exchange of documents which we had with the South Vietnamese Government. I will look further at this reference to what was said by  Sir Paul  Hasluck in case there is any further light f can throw upon the matter for the Leader of the Opposition. 
We are debating a serious subject but the Opposition has attempted to turn it into an exercise in political mischief. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  increasingly is exhibiting not only an infinite capacity for mischief but almost a monumental malice. May I, in the most friendly spirit - to use his own technique - warn the honourable member that he is now carrying this style of his so far that he is getting close to becoming a caricature and the House is ceasing to take note of what he says. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  is not a small man in any sense, certainly not in my opinion, and I rather regret that to some degree he has joined the honourable member for Hindmarsh in this level of debate. I do not propose to debate this matter on that low level. 
Three simple issues are involved in this debate. The first is whether it is constitutionally correct to appoint Assistant Ministers in the manner proposed in the statement of - the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to the House. The second is whether the announcement of the Assistant Ministers to be appointed should have been made in this House instead of outside this House. The third is whether what is proposed in the statement is desirable or undesirable in the view of the House. As to the first issue, I agree with the legal advice which was given to the Prime Minister by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  on 18th March 1971 when he was Attorney-General. I should inform the House that when I became Attorney-General I considered that advice and T confirmed it in writing over my own signature. 
I do not think the House needs any great elaboration of the legal issues. The relevant part of paragraph 4 of section 44 of the Constitution reads: 
Any person who holds any office of profit under the Crown . . . shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. 
Put simply, the question is this: Would these Assistant Ministers forfeit their positions as members of this House or of the Senate, in the case of senators, because they hold an office of profit? Would they be holding an office of profit? Provided they do not receive any emolument it is my opinion that they would not. Perhaps that is simplifying it unduly but that, broadly, is basically and fundamentally the proposition. I do not think that they would be prevented from receiving a reimbursement of their out-of-pocket expenses. Provided they are not receiving a profit from their office there is no difficulty. Indeed, the practice of this Parliament since federation has been consistently to appoint men to such an office. It has not always had the same name, but if honourable members were to take the trouble of referring to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Handbook they would find that in Labor administrations and in administrations of this side of the House Assistant Ministers, Honorary Ministers and Ministers without Portfolio have been appointed. The name has changed from time to time but the concept has not. It has been the customary practice in this House. I do not stay to debate that quirk - that accidental happening - at the time when a particular  Speaker  ruled in this place in a manner which will be well within the memory of some honourable members 
The second issue is whether the announcement should have been made to this House. May I point out to honourable members that the appointment in question is not like the appointment of you,  Mr Speaker  - a parliamentary appointment - it is not an appointment within the gift of this House; it is an appointment by  Her  Majesty the Queen or her representative in Australia, the Governor-General. What really is suggested by this proposition is that in some way the Crown's representative is at fault in not coming into the House in order to make the announcement. That basically is the proposition. Of course, the Crown acts on the advice of the Prime Minister in relation to ministerial appointments. Residual to the whole question may be the thought: 'Well, it would have been a courtesy to the House for the Prime Minister, who is advising the Crown, to come in'. That argument may be put. But at least one can say that in the past, because of the fundamental and basic position of these appointments, which are Crown appointments, it has been the practice to make an announcement outside the House. That is the current practice in Australia. It probably accounts for the fact that the names of those people who are appointed Ministers, Assistant Ministers or Honorary Ministers and sworn as members of the Executive Council are customarily announced outside the House. 
It is true that there is on the notice paper an item setting forth that the House take note of the paper setting forth the Prime Minister's statement to the House. An amendment has been moved by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  to the effect that the following words be added to the motion that the House take note of the paper:  and expresses its disapproval of the decision to appoint Assistant Ministers'. 
It is true that that debate was stood over. Incidentally, there had already been two speakers from the Opposition on the amendment, lt has been argued that the House should have been given an opportunity to debate this motion and the proposed amendment to it before the appointments were made. In view of the fact that they are appointments by the Crown and not by the Parliament it would be an idle debate, although it is a question on which one might have a debate. I do not propose to continue a discussion of this particular issue because the Assistant Ministers have not in fact been appointed. The House is in fact now debating a matter that the Prime Minister has -said it should debate this afternoon. He said: 'If the House wants a debate we will have one', and the House is now debating this matter. There is nothing left to argue about on the second issue; it has become simply a hypothetical question. 
That leaves the third issue, which is whether what is proposed is desirable. On this issue the House has the benefit of the views which have been set forth in the Prime Minister's statement that is the subject of the noting motion and the speeches of honourable members on the amendment to that motion and on the occasion of this debate. 
If the honourable member for Sydney can restrain himself, I will address myself to the Chair and say that two matters weigh heavily in my mind. Firstly, I think that the business of government in the federal sphere has expanded enormously in the last 20 years. I do not think it is generally appreciated how great is the pressure of work upon members or Ministers. I do not think it is generally appreciated, for example, that they work a 7-day week. This proposal to give Ministers assistance and some relief is certainly a sensible proposal, as far as the business of government is concerned. The second matter is that the proposal, if implemented, obviously will give valuable experience to the younger members on the Government side, and if the House is looking at this matter honestly and dispassionately, it will concede that it is ultimately for the benefit of the nation that they should get this experience. 
There are other matters, but I do not propose to debate this question at length. 1 think one has to remember that ultimately the appointment of Ministers and Assistant Ministers lies with the Crown, advised by the executive government, and I think that one would have to have very substantial reasons to challenge the actions of the Prime Minister in a matter such as this. I am against the amendment and in favour of the motion which is before the House. 
 The Government opposes the motion for the disallowance of this ordinance. The first point made by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  was that this ordinance applied to 150,000 people in the Australian Capital Territory. 
In one sense that is true enough, but when we are speaking about the parole of prisoners let us get this matter in perspective. The latest figures that I have - figures for July - indicate that there were 37 Australian Capital Territory prisoners, 2 of who were eligible for parole. There would not be 150,000 people being dealt with by the parole board. Good heavens, I would not wish to make that reflection on the people of the Australian Capital Territory. I am not underrating the importance of the problem of the prisoner or of the liberty of the subject; what I am saying is that if 150,000 prisoners were involved what would be needed would be not only a parole board but also a substantial department to handle the matter. What size parole board sitting the entire year would be needed to deal with 2 prisoners in an entire year? Practical considerations come into this, lt may be, as I said earlier, that there will be a parole board in Canberra but at present it is hardly justified by the amount of work that is involved. 
Coming down more to the base of the criticism that has been offered, it has been put that there are objectionable features in the machinery for the release of prisoners on parole under the ordinance because it gives an unfettered discretion to the Executive. In the same breadth it was said that these decisions will, in fact be made and the conditions will be set by some officer in a back room. I shall deal with those 2 things in reverse order. I think that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has given less than credit to the Attorneys-General of the Commonwealth in suggesting that these matters are actually decided by some officer in a back room. This is not a power which the Attorneys-General - at any rate, since I have been exercising the office - have delegated. It is a matter about which they have considerable personal anxiety and to which they have given considerable personal attention. Therefore, I do not think it is proper to lay undue stress on the argument that the power is given to some officer in a back room. It is true that the relevant material is put up to the Attorney-General by officers and that included in it may be advice from parole officers, but the decision to give advice to the GovernorGeneral is exercised by the AttorneyGeneral. 
I turn now to a more important principle. It has been stated that we are involved here with the liberty of the subject and that this liberty is threatened by having 'the matter in the hands of the Executive. I have heard this view expressed quite often lately. I am surprised at the extent to which there is a lack of understanding of the safety  of  the subject in putting matters of this kind into the hands of a Minister who is answerable publicly in the House instead crf putting them into the hands of a parole board whose members may or may not be known and are answerable to no-one. Where is the liberty of the subject protected in the second circumstance? The liberty of the subject is much more protected when a Minister is answerable to the representatives of the people in this House than it would be if it were in the hands of some obscure, anonymous board which is answerable to no-one. 
Secondly, if a dreadful crime is committed by a parolee, should the responsible Minister shelter behind the parole hoard? Why should he not be answerable to the representatives of the people in the Parliament? That is the view which has been taken in Great Britain, which still retains the system that we have here. Great Britain is, after all, the place of origin of most of our love of liberty and our way of handling and protecting our civil liberties. It is true that New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia have delegated this responsibility to a parole board. I suspect - perhaps one should not say too positively that this is so - that the enormous numbers with which they deal is the reason for adopting this approach. It is because it would bulk so large in the work of the Attorney-General to deal with them personally that machinery provisions have led to the establishment of the practice of a parole board handling these cases, rather than as a means of safeguarding the liberty of the subject. I challenge the principle that was put forward by the honourable member for 'the Australian Capital Territory. We will keep this matter under review, particularly having regard to the liberty of the prisoners involved, but for the present, what is contained in this ordinance is, I believe, the proper thing to have contained in such an ordinance. It has been working well since early this year and I believe that it should be allowed to continue to work in that way. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The honourable member's question appears to seek information on the use of the Service and Execution of Process Act of the Commonwealth to enforce penalties under the road maintenance tax legislation of the States. Information was sought from the States on that basis and the following is a summary of the replies received: 
(1)- 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Until the latter part of 1970 the existing arrangements under which a number of Judges of the Commonwealth Industrial Court hold appointments as additional Judges of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory enabled matters in the Supreme Court to be dealt with expeditiously. In the latter part of 1970 a succession of matters arose in the Industrial Court that precluded the Judges of that Court from giving assistance in Canberra to the same extent as previously and resulted in some delay in the hearing of cases. The Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act has recently been amended to increase to two the number of Judges of the Court who will be resident in Canberra. The new Judge will occupy the position of Chairman of the Law Reform Commission. It is intended that the new Judge will assist from time to time with the judicial work of the Court. His primary duties however will be in relation to the work of the Law Reform Commission. I am keeping under review the question of the appointment of a further Judge of the Supreme Court. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Because of the more limited nature of the sub-. ject.I do not propose to appoint a committee as .. in the case of the general review of the copyright law. The matter is being given attention by my Department and other interested Departments. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The position in the mainland Territories is receiving consideration. 
Telephone Calls: Taping by Police  (Question No. 2976) 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
The work occupies the greater part of the time of one officer and a portion of the time of two senior officers. 
Since the commencement of the Commonwealth Prisoners Act 1967 and, in relation to release on licence, for a very, substantial period prior to that date. 
Not in the present circumstances. 
Excluding persons imprisoned for nonpayment of fines or non-compliance with maintenance orders, the number at 1st August 1971 was thirty-seven. 
Two. 
 The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) There are no provisions in Australian patent law specifically providing for priority of examination in the particular cases referred to in the honourable member's suggestion. The Australian legislation does however provide general authority for an applicant to request early examination of his application. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Criminal cases* 
The following scales of imprisonment have been prescribed to cover such cases: 
Australian Capital Territory- 1 day for each $2 or part thereof - 12 months maximum 
Northern Territory - 1 day for each $2 
New South Wales- 1 day for $2 2 days for $2-$4 1 day for each $4 in excess of $4 
by leave - I do not think there is a great deal of difference between the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and myself on this matter, lt is a matter for each House and I understand the honourable member's suggestion that the 2 Houses might co-operate when this matter comes before them. It is our view that there would be value in having a report from the law officers as a basis for consideration of the matter. When the Government receives this report it will have to consider it in the first instance but I would envisage that ultimately the House would have the benefit of this when it entered upon consideration of the matter. It is not to be thought that the Executive, as it were, was taking it out of the hands of the House at all. This may be regarded more as a preliminary look in some depth at the legal matters involved in the whole question of parliamentary privilege. 
-I am not aware of any answer so far being received. However, I should say to the honourable member that it would not be the practice to reveal the full contents of either the original message or the reply; otherwise we could not maintain confidence between governments in this kind of exercise. 
-I have seen the telegram in question. The Government deplores the enormous suffering and death that are occurring in this region, not only to children but also, due to disease, lack of food and exposure, to adults in very large numbers. The Government has taken steps which have been outlined in a debate in this House to meet this particular situation and it has done it in very close consultation with the Indian Government. We have been guided by the Indian Government on the things which were most needed and we have sent them. Our representatives in India have indicated that the effect of this has been that our aid has probably been as effective as any aid that has been given. Indeed, the Red Cross in a report to the United Nations has warned people and voluntary organisations with genuine compassion against simply launching supplies which they think may be needed without proper consultation with the authorities in India. It is true that there are many things which are required. We have taken note of the specific items to which the honourable member for Bradfield has referred in this telegram. So far, they have not been included in our supplies, but certainly the matter is under consideration by the aid people in my Department. 
 Mr Speaker,  during the course of question time on Friday last I was asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  a supplementary question in which he referred to a statement of  Sir Paul  Hasluck, and I said that I would obtain further information, if that were possible, to inform him. T wish to give the further information that I have now obtained in answer to that question. 
The first point in this discussion on which I must join issue is the suggestion that the Australian government's foreign policy is one - I quote from the wording of this matter of public importance - 'of continued hostility to China'. This is demonstrably false. The Government's policy on China has been stated clearly on a number of occasions in recent times. On 11th May the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced that the Government had as its long term objective the normalising of our bilateral relations with the People's Republic of China, to which end it had been decided to explore the possibility of establishing a dialogue with that Government. Is this evidence of hostility? Is this a hostile policy - to seek to normalise our relations? It is completely wrong and even mischievous to suggest that it is. 
On 13th May the Prime Minister again emphasised Australia's desire to have normal bilateral relations with the People's Republic of China. He pointed out 3 things. First, that there is no restriction whatsoever on the movement of Australian people to China; provided only that they can get a visa from the Chinese and provided that security considerations are not involved. Secondly, apart from special restrictive lists - this refers to goods of strategic importance - we permit trade with mainland China. For example, for the year ended 30th June 1970 our exports were SI 25.8m, mainly but not wholly wheat, and our imports from China were $32m. Thirdly, we have not barred movement in the field of cultural activities. For example, not long ago approval was given for the Peking Opera Co. to come to Australia. Unfortunately, because the only theatre that was suitable in size to take the company had closed down, it was not able to come. But there was no bar. This has been the position for many years. The Opposition talks about the Government following America and following some other country. We have been way ahead of the other countries in the movement of people and actual trade. In the light of these facts, to suggest that the Government has a policy of continuing hostility is nonsense. On 28th July, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  reaffirmed our position, saying that we have no hostility to the great 
Chinese people whose history and culture have contributed much to the achievements of mankind, and that we look forward to the day when we would be able to recognise the People's Republic with honour and without deserting old friends. He said further that in the meantime we want to keep moving towards normal relations with mainland China without waiting for the completion of formalities for full diplomatic recognition. 
I stated the position again in my foreign affairs statement in his House last Wednesday. This statement is in the course of being debated in this House and it is really a misuse of Standing Orders to raise this matters of public importance in order to waste the time of the House which was this afternoon to have been devoted to regular business when the same matter can be fully argued in the course of a debate which is actually in progress. It is true, as the Prime Minister has stated, that we have to be careful. He has called attention to the fact that as far as trade between Australian and China is concerned we are dealing with different political systems. This is not to suggest we would not trade with countries that have different political institutions from ours but to call attention to the fact that we need to remember in the course of our dealings that there are differences. We have a free Press and freedom of expression; their Press is controlled and their people know little or nothing about what the real objectives of their government might be. 
As the Prime Minister has said, we have to look much further and ask ourselves when we are engaging in dealings with China: What are we likely to gain as far as the interests of Australia are concerned in the long term, in the medium term and in the short term? Surely this is a sensible approach. It is not a hostile one. Any other approach would be naive and not in accordance with Australia's interests. Indeed, a major criticism of the excursion of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to China lies in the way in which he conceded in advance everything to the Chinese, leaving his country with no negotiating elements at all. 
On the question of membership of the United Nations Organisation, the position of Australia has been made quite clear. As 1 said in my foreign affairs statement last Wednesday: 
It seems to the Australian Government both inevitable and desirable that the People's Republic of China should be represented in the United Nations and should hold the China seat in the Security Council. At the same time, we consider that the Republic of China should remain a member of the United Nations. It has a population larger than that of most members. It was an original signatory of the Charter and has been a loyal member of the United Nations since ils foundation. It will be a bad day for the small and middlesized members of the United Nations if the right of 14 million people to be represented there is arbitrarily removed. 
This question of recognition and diplomatic relations should be seen in proper perspective. We need to base our policies not on any narrow view of one particular subject such as wheat but on an objective view of all the factors and a careful assessment of our interests at all stages. We believe this is a responsible position having regard to all our existing relationships with other countries. It certainly reveals no hostility to the People's Republic. On the contrary, by indicating that we think it desirable that the People's Republic should hold the China seat in the Security Council we have gone beyond what many countries have so far been prepared to concede. 
On the question of recognition it should not be supposed that recognition will lead immediately and automatically to trading advantages, as honourable members opposite seem to think. It is true that the Chinese have bought no wheat from Australia this year and that they have said they will continue to consider Canada first as a source of wheat as import needs arise. Of course, they have always considered Canada first in point of time. But they have had a very good grain harvest for some years now and are continuing to buy Australian goods, particularly minerals and metals, which they want. I point out that contracts with a number of Australians firms were negotiated at the Canton trade fair in April and May last. This will result in export from Australia of metals and manufactures to the value of about $15m and perhaps much more as further contracts are signed. 
Even if we went all the way with Peking, as the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to do, by declaring that we recognise its sovereignty over Taiwan, there would be no guarantee that this would give us new orders for wheat. Many countries have found that even though they recognised Peking they did not gain any increase of trade. Some of them have suffered a reduction since recognising Peking. As has been pointed out, China buys more from Japan and West Germany, which do not recognise it nor have diplomatic relations with it, than from any other country. As has been pointed out, Australia's wheat reserves last year were 265 million bushels. The reserves this year are estimated to finish at about 160 million bushels. We have sold not only the current crop but also 100 million bushels from our reserves. This means that we have been in a very good position so far as wheat sales are concerned. 
Once China saw that the Australian Labor Party was making a political issue of wheat sales naturally it took advantage of the situation to twist our tail. Would honourable members opposite expect it to do anything else? They have compounded this by going to China and making this an international public political exercise. Of course China will make it a political exercise; the Opposition has handed it to China on a plate. But China is not doing it in any other area except the area the Opposition has nominated, that, is wheat. China is not making it a political exercise in respect of metals or any other trade. As I said, at the Canton trade fair we got SI 5m worth of trade contracts with China. But in the one item that the members of the Opposition pick on to make a political exercise - wheat - China sees its opportunity and of course takes the opportunity the Australian Labor Party has offered it and puts the political screws on in that way. I believe China has done so and may continue to do so so long as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  persists in raising in the House matters which may compound this problem. We might even have had a chance for sales. Do honourable members opposite think, now that this debate on a matter of public importance has publicised the possibility of putting political pressure on Australia, that any sales will eventuate? Of course they will not. As long as the Opposition persists in this course which is against Australia's interests we will not succeed in getting further sales of wheat. 
I move: 
That the Mouse take note of the paper. 
On the afternoon of 18th September 1970, while the House was sitting, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was attending a Moratorium demonstration in Sydney. On 19th October 1970 he laid an information against a New South Wales police constable alleging assault on 18th September 1970. At the trial the honourable member alleged that the constable had assaulted him during the demonstration. On 5th January 1971 the magistrate dismissed the charge. The magistrate, under section 81 of the New South Wales Justices Act, ordered the honourable member to pay $80 in costs, allowed him 3 months to pay and further, under section 82 (2) of the Justices Act, ordered that, in default of payment, he should be imprisoned for 40 days with hard labour. The honourable member for Reid himself stated in the House on 17th February 1971 that he had told the magistrate that he would not pay the $80. He repeated in the House that he would not pay what he called the 'fine'. He said: ' ... the money awarded is called costs but in reality it is a fine'. On 10th April 1971, the costs not having been paid, the honourable member was committed to prison; he was released on 12th April after someone else had paid the required amount. 
The matter was referred to the Committee of Privileges which has made the following findings: 
That the Committee is of the opinion that the commitment to prison of the honourable Member for Reid  (Mr T. Uren)  constituted a  breach of Parliamentary Privilege. 
That the Committee, having regard to the complexities and circumstances of the case, recommends to the House of Representatives that the House would best consult its own dignity by taking no action in regard to the breach of Parliamentary Privilege which has occurred. 
The Committee itself referred to the 'complexities' of the case. Immunity from arrest is the oldest of the immunities of members. It clearly extends to arrest in purely civil cases. The immunity does not, however, extend to arrest for crimes. In between purely criminal and purely civil cases the position is debatable. 
Erskine May, in his Parliamentary Practice, says that the test is whether the case is more of a criminal than of a civil character: if it is, there is no immunity. Courts have said that the test is whether the arrest is merely to compel performance of a civil obligation, such as to pay money, or whether it also has some punitive purpose. The Committee of Privileges received differing legal opinions on these complex questions from the Secretary to the AttorneyGeneral's Department and from Professor Geoffrey Sawer, Professor of Law at the Australian National University. The Committee by majority must be taken to have preferred the opinion of Professor Sawer that the imprisonment of the honourable member was a purely civil matter and not at all punitive for his failure to pay the costs on time. 
The New South Wales Premier has written to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  a letter dated 13th August 1971 expressing the strong view of the New South Wales 
Government that the Committee's first finding is inconsistent with decisions of New South Wales courts that imprisonment for costs is 'criminal in nature' - though, of course, this does not imply that the honourable member has been convicted of or charged with any criminal offence. The Premier enclosed a letter dated 26th July 1971 from the New South Wales Attorney-General to the Commonwealth Attorney-General which set out the legal arguments in support of the New South Wales Government's point of view. The Premier asked that these views be brought before the House when it is considering the report of the Privileges Committee. 
The views of the New South Wales Government have particular significance because the point in question turns upon the construction of a New South Wales statute and the New South Wales Supreme Court has at least twice previously given an interpretation of that statute which is the opposite of that adopted by the majority of the Committee in the report before the House. The New South Wales Government has pointed to the dilemma facing New South Wales authorities who in the future might have to choose between following the decisions of its own court and following the decision of this House if it were to adopt the Committee's first finding. I think the House could have tabled for the benefit of its consideration a copy of the letter from the Premier, dated 13th August 1971, and a copy of the letter from the New South Wales AttorneyGeneral, dated 26th July 1971. I table those letters. 
If it is convenient, with the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate a copy of each of the letters in Hansard. 
I will refer the honourable member's question to the Attorney-General in another place. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has dealt with 2 matters, the question of parole of prisoners and also the disallowance of the Evidence Ordinance in the Senate. On the question of parole of prisoners, the honourable member has repeated the arguments which he put last Friday, perhaps at - somewhat greater length. But he misses the point in 2 respects. The honourable member says that these matters are decided by a clerk in  a  back room. He said this on Friday, and I explained to him that this was not the position. Tonight he gets up and solemnly repeats that ridiculous assertion. Let me assure him that prosecutions, remissions, parole matters and the exercise of the prerogative of mercy are not very numerous but they are very troublesome matters to a Commonwealth' AttorneyGeneral. These are matters which come before a Commonwealth Attorney-General. Although they do not see the light of day, do not result  in  legislation and are not publicly debated, they are some of the matters which cause a Commonwealth Attorney-General the most personal anxiety of any matters that come before him. The honourable member is simply ignorant of what goes on in this regard. 
The second point I wish to make is that he has not understood what I have said in relation to the protection of the liberty of the subject. What the honourable member wants is a parole board which is virtually anonymous - anonymous unless one goes to the great trouble to find out who is on it. He wants a parole board which is not responsible to this Parliament nor to anyone who can publicly contact it, instead of action by the Minister. The old English method of protecting the liberty of the subject which is still in force in the United Kingdom is that where the liberty of the subject is involved a Minister must be responsible and answerable to the representatives of the people in the Parliament. That is the position in Australia. It is absolutely ridiculous to suggest that that is not a very great safeguard of the liberty of the subject. Let me take a simple example. 
You do not want to listen. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is difficult to make direct comparisons with the fees charged by the countries mentioned since fees may be levied on any of a number of steps up to the grant of a patent and during the life of the patent after grant. Also, some fees may be for variable amounts having regard, for 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There were no Australians held in immigration camps on the 18th March 1971. Two Australians had been held at Kupang for illegally entering Indonesia but they were released on 18th January 1971. They were visited by a member of the staff of the Australian Embassy, Djakarta and their food rations were supplemented by an Australian charity organisation in Kupang 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member knows, the Australian Government maintains diplomatic relations with, and of course recognises, the Government of the Republic of China. The Government is not required, however, to take any stand with regard to the territorial claims maintained by the Republic of China, or for that matter by other governments which it recognises and with which it is in diplomatic relations. No useful purpose would be served by attempting the academic exercise of specifying those administrative divisions referred to generically by the honourable member as 'the provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions of China' in which the Government considers that one or other of the three categories of governmental authority mentioned by the honourable member is exercised by cither the Republic of China or the People's Republic of China. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Treasury, Defence, Trade and Indus try, National Development, External Territories and Primary Industry. 
26th July 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Senator Tydings called on the then Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Bury,  as well as on the Prime Minister and the Treasurer, on 1st June 1971. He asked that Australia make a contribution to the United Nations Fund for Population Activities. 
The question of a contribution by Australia to the Fund is under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 25th Session of the United Nations General Assembly adopted Resolution 2662 which commented inter alia that it was urgent and important to reach agreement on the problem of chemical and bacteriological (biological) methods of warfare. Australia voted in favour of the resolution. 
On Sth August. 1971, the United States and the Soviet Union presented to the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (CCD), a joint draft convention on biological weapons. The Disarmament Committee is expected to reach agreement on the draft in time for it to be submitted as an agreed conference document to the 26th Session of the United Nations General Assembly which begins in September, 1971. 
The draft convention would prohibit the development, production, stockpiling, acquisition and retention of biological weapons and of biological agents and toxins held in quantitites that have no justification for peaceful purposes, and calls  for  the destruction or diversion to peaceful purposes of existing materials as soon as possible. 
By Article VIII of the draft convention, each State Party to the convention would undertake to conduct negotiations in good faith on effective measures for the similar prohibition of chemical weapons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government does not wish to make a practice of commenting on allegations made by private individuals in relation to the situation in Vietnam, particularly in view of the extensive literature which now exists on this subject. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has received reports  of  statements made by General Minh and VicePresident Ky regarding the forthcoming elections  in  the Republic of Vietnam. 
The conduct  of the  forthcoming elections  in  the Republic of Vietnam is the domestic responsibility of  the  elected government of that country. lt would not be appropriate for the Australian Government  to  publicise particular statements made in the context  of  an election campaign  in  the Republic  of  Vietnam. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No; Lieutenant Commander Berzins was never nominated to the Minister or Department of Foreign Affairs for appointment to an overseas post. 
Please see answer to part (I) above. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill was introduced in and passed by the Senate last night. Its purpose is to rectify a difficult situation that arose out of the Senate's own action in disallowing the Evidence Ordinance 1971 of the Australian Capital Territory last Thursday. The disallowance of this ordinance resulted in a serious gap in the law relating to evidence in criminal proceedings in the Australian Capital Territory, to the extent that it has been necessary for criminal trials to be adjourned until the situation can be rectified. The disallowed ordinance had been in operation since 29th March of this year. The Bill passed by the Senate is designed to keep the ordinance in operation until 31st March 1972. The passage of this Bill by the Senate was made necessary in order to get the Senate out of a difficulty of its own making when it disallowed the Evidence Ordinance. The Bill is of a mechanical or machinery nature. This is not the occasion I suggest, to debate the merits of the ordinance because that is to be continued in force by the present Bill. The opportunity for that to be done will arise when substantive legislation is introduced at a later date, and presumably, or hopefully, before 31st March 1972. It is necessary in the interests of the administration of justice in the Australian Capital Territory that this Bill be passed as quickly as possible. 
Leave granted for debate to proceed forthwith. 
 in reply - The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  effects an element of surprise at this, a lack of knowledge of it and insufficient warning. Having regard to the course that this matter took in the Senate, I would be morally certain that the caucus of the honourable member's Party would have discussed it. I think it is rather surprising to find the honourable member so surprised. This is a mechanical Bill. This is not the place to debate the substance of the Evidence Ordinance. There will be an opportunity for that when the Bill is introduced into the Parliament which, as I said, hopefully should be before 31st March next year. The purpose of this measure is to eliminate the difficulty created by the disallowance by the Senate of the Ordinance which brought about a situation in which no criminal matters can be heard in the courts of the Australian Capital Territory. The sooner that we adopt the machinery to restore the position, the better. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
New Zealand 
I agree that the decision of the High Court last Friday was a most important one. This was the decision given in the case of Strickland v. Rocla Concrete Pipes Limited and others, which is commonly referred to as the concrete pipes case. The High Court by majority held important provivisions of the Trade Practices Act to be invalid. At the same time the decision threw new light on the power that section 51 (xx) of the Constitution has conferred on the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws with respect to foreign corporations and trading or financial corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth. My colleague in another place, the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  is currently making a statement on the effect of that decision and what is proposed to be done by the Government in relation to the Trade Practices -Act. I feel I should take some of the time which is available to me in the debate on this matter of public importance to mention some of the matters that he is putting before the other place. 
The concrerte pipes case arose out of a prosecution in the Industrial Court of 3 manufacturers of concrete pipes for failing, contrary to section 43 of the Trade Practices Act, to register particulars of an agreement containing restrictive provisions. The agreement related to the supply of concrete pipes in Queensland by the 3 companies, and it regulated prices and other terms on which concrete pipes were to be supplied. Honourable members will doubtless have read in the Press that the High Court held, by a majority of 5 to  2,  that the Trade Practices Act did not validly require the registration of the agreement. There are  2  points about this. Firstly, the agreement in question had a purely intrastate - not interstate - operation. Secondly, the corporations involved were manufacturers as well as sellers of their products. The Commonwealth's case relied for its support entirely on the corporation's power. For the Commonwealth to succeed it was necessary for the High Court to overrule an earlier decision of the Court in the case of Huddart Parker v. Moorehead which was decided in 1909. In that case the High Court had held that the Australian Industries Preservation Act, which was the forerunner of the present Trade Practices Act, did not validly apply to corporations in respect of their intrastate trading activities. This decision has now been overruled by the High Court, which has made it clear that the corporations power in the Constitution can be used to support legislation dealing with restrictive trade practices of foreign and trading and financial corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth, that is, whether they are trading interstate or intrastate. 
The Trade Practices Act, as drafted by my predecessor, who is now the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  had provided in section 7 that one of the heads of power relied on was paragraph (xx), and that this was included on the footing that it was doubtful whether the case of Huddart Parker and Moorehead was correctly decided. If it was correctly decided there would have been no point in including section 7  (2.).  That sub-section was included upon the basis that there would be reliance placed upon the corporations power. It was inevitable that there would be a challenge. It came, and the Commonwealth, which was represented in the case, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, by the honourable and learned member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  was successful in having the decision in Huddart Parker and Moorehead overruled. The immediate consequence of the decision is that substantial parts of the Trade Practices Act - though probably not all parts of it - are invalid. The learned Chief Justice referred to the Act being wholly invalid, but he was directing his attention specifically to section 35. I do not think that he was particularly directing his attention, for example, to the provisions relating to resale price maintenance or to shipping. 
Yes. He was not directing his attention to those provisions, and indeed they have a different severability provision. The consequence on which the majority of judges fastened to hold the Act invalid was the consequence of the operation of section 7, the severability provision, which was held not to operate to sever the good from the bad in the Act. The whole Act was held to fall, and the position now is that there is a substantial gap. In the public interest it is desirable that that gap should be filled quickly, and the Government proposes to introduce, as a matter of urgency, legislation to overcome the constitutional defects which have been found to exist in the Trade Practices Act. This new legislation, for reasons of urgency, will be similar in scope to the present Trade Practices Act, except for amendments needed to bring it into constitutional operation. Tn the light of the guidance that has been provided in the judgment as to the scope of the corporations power, the Government has decided that the immediate and remedial legislation will be founded on the corporations power. As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said in answer to a question today, this will cover approximately 99 per cent of the cases which are registered. 
This is not to say that the Commonwealth will not be pressing on with its review, which is well advanced, of the Trade Practices Act generally. For example, one of the major areas which we are considering very carefully is the position of horizontal restrictive price agreements and whether we should not make these unenforcible immediately unless the person entering into them can discharge the onus of showing affirmatively that they are in the public interest, as we have done with vertical resale price maintenance. But this would involve a much longer drafting job. It is thought that the gap should not be allowed to continue while this is undertaken. But as the Prime Minister has said, he has given extreme urgency to this general review and the legislation which is to follow upon its being completed. This will be brought before the House later. 
A number of matters are raised in the matter of public importance which we are debating although the Trade Practices Act is the principal one. Perhaps I should mention one other matter because I heard the Leader of the Opposition say that we should now re-enact the Australian Industries Preservation Act which had been held to be invalid in the case of Huddart Parker and Moorehead. May I just remind the Leader of the Opposition that the basis of that Act was to make it a statutory offences to engage in restrictive practices. One of the weaknesses in the operation of the Act was that it involved the prosecution proving its case beyond reasonable doubt, and proving it in circumstances where all the information was in the possession of the accused. This was the basic reason why the Australian Industries Preservation Act really did not become effective, and I think it would be a very retrogressive step to return to that concept. Certainly the procedure which is now followed, where the parties to the agreement have to disclose the facts by registration and then allow a tribunal look at it, is one way of dealing with the matter. The procedure which we have used in dealing with resale price maintenance requires again not the establishment of a criminal offence but just the outlawing of the agreement, with the capacity for anyone affected by such an outlawed agreement to get an injunction restraining its operation. This is another matter which has to be considered in the general review. I do not at all accept the proposition put by the Leader of the Opposition that we should immediately return to the Australian Industries Preservation Act. 
This discussion of a matter of public importance is not restricted to trade prac tices; it  is  rather a vague and general discussion which refers to the general need to pass laws relating to trade practices, consumer protection, consumer credit, securities markets and overseas control under the Commonwealth's corporations power. It is really a whiff of centralist grapeshot fired into the air without any defined target. However, in the few minutes remaining to me perhaps I should look at some of the other topics which have been raised in the matter of public importance. The first is consumer protection. Of course, this is an enormous area which the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General has been considering over a long period of time with resulting State legislation being introduced from time to time. The question covers unfair practices, door to door selling and the problem concerning inertia selling which the Committee is currently considering. The States have established consumer protection authorities, as a result of the consideration which the AttorneysGeneral together have given to the matter. It is not only corporations which are involved in ths matter. This is an area in which many single proprietors of businesses and partnerships are involved. To say that the High Court's ruling on paragraph (xx) should lead the Commonwealth immediately and perhaps without consultation with the States to attempt to take over this area is something which has really been said without being thought through. 
The second matter which is referred to in the matter of public importance is the question of consumer credit. Again, this is a matter on which the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General has received much material, in particular, the massive Roggerson report which was compiled by the University of Adelaide and which has been laid on the table of this House. The Roggerson report stated that we should entirely review the whole basis of credit and that we should abolish the hire purchase agreement as it is known under the law and have only certain other types of agreement which were laid down in this report. A tremendous change in the concept of the law was involved in the Roggerson report. At the last law convention held in Melbourne recently a massive paper was presented, foreshadowing a report of a Victorian law reform committee, which dealt with this topic. Anyone who has studied those papers will know that the whole question of consumer credit is an enormous one. It again involves not just simply the corporations covered by paragraph (xx), but an immense range of individuals, partnerships and sole proprietors of businesses. If we were going to enter this field in this post-haste manner that is suggested in the matter of public importance, we would need to have the closest co-operation with the States. It is a very complex area and one which is currently the subject of legal amendment which is being considered. Simply to float the question in a matter of public importance and to say that the Commonwealth now needs to pass laws relating to consumer credit really does not add to knowledge on the subject at all. 
The securities market is another target. The Leader of the Opposition said that the Eggleston Committee recommended something like this. It did nothing of the sort. It recommended a companies commission. It specified that the companies commission should be totally different to the' American Securities and Exchange Commission. It recommended a companies commission with a dispensing power. It laid down in its report conditions so strict for companies that it thought there ought to be a Federal companies commission having a dispensing power to apply to companies which showed they could not comply with such conditions. The Leader of the Opposition is mistaken in suggesting that it was anything to do with a securities and exchange commission. 
Of course this a matter which the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange is now considering and I would hope that we will get some valuable comments when that Committee presents its report. This is a matter that will then be considered. We should not think that this corporation power simply opens the door for a securities and exchange commission. It might be argued that capital raisings by foreign corporations or trading and financial corporations, whether by share capital or by debentures or other forms of lending, might be subject to control. But it does not suggest that dealings between people and individuals on share markets or dealings by brokers come under this control. This matter of public importance has not been thought out in the slightest degree nor does it contribute to the accomplishment of this Parliament. 
The last matter referred to is overseas control. This debate is probably delaying consideration of one of the substantive acts which this Government is endeavouring to take on overseas control. Where it has been necessary and desirable in the public interest to take steps in relation to overseas control this Government has taken action. I refer to the Banks (Shareholdings) Bill 1971 which is on the notice paper. This type of active legislation is being held up by the Opposition introducing these vague debates and through a habit  on  the part of honourable members on the other side of the House of moving for the suspension of the Standing Orders and then the mover and seconder speaking while the whole business of the House is delayed. This is the sort of thing that is delaying the Government in getting on with the business of controlling this kind of thing where it needs to be controlled. Let us get on with the Banks (Shareholdings) Bill and overseas shareholding acquisitions in our banks and stop talking about vague generalities such as we have in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have noted the report of the French donation of audiovisual appliances and technical instruments for language teaching purposes. 
Steps taken by Australia to assist in the teaching of English in Indonesia include: 
the provision since 1959 of well over 1 million sets of booklets (8 to a set) entitled English for You' for use in conjunction with broadcasts from Radio Australia. This is a 2year course of English instruction, 2 programmes at first year and second year level are broadcast each week; 
the supply, during 1970-71 of 1,000 copies each of 13 books (paperbacks) by Australian authors as reading material in English courses at a number of Indonesian educational institutions; 
the provision of more than 500 copies of each quarterly issue of the 'Bulletin of Indonesian Economic Studies'. These are given to universities and associations of economists primarily devoted to local research; 
training in Australia. Over the past 3 years, 106 Indonesian students have been enrolled in English courses in Australian institutions. This includes 56 trainees for courses at the English Training Centre, North Sydney, 7 post graduate students admitted to the University of Sydney for a course of Teaching of English as a Foreign Language and 43 students enrolled in other special  English language courses. 
During the same period, about 250 sponsored students have been given preliminary English tuition before embarking on other studies. 
More than 30 Indonesians have so far been nominated for English training under the Colombo Plan this financial year and approximately 150 others are expected to seek refresher or pre-course English training: 
help under the AustralianAsian University Aid and Co-operation Scheme. With funds provided by our Aid Programme an examination is being made of the need for assistance in English teaching at Indonesian Universities associated with the scheme. After discussions with the Indonesian authorities,  Dr J.  R. Angel of Sydney University commenced a 1month's assignment  on  3rd August to investigate and advise on forms of assistance which might be given in this field; 
my department has recently been examining the possibility of providing a language laboratory, chiefly for language instruction sponsored Indonesian students who will be undertaking training courses in Australia. It is hopedthat this would lead to a reduction in the number of students who come to Australia specifically for English language training, and also meet the language needs of students who would otherwise undergo lengthy language courses after arrival here as a preliminary to other studies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Requests have been received, both from the Federation itself and from other interested bodies, for an Australian contribution to the Federation. These requests and similar requests for a contribution to the United Nations Fund for Population Activities are at present under consideration. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The full text of paragraph 465 of the Visiting Mission's report which was presented to the U.N. Trusteeship Council, was: 'The Mission shares the view expressed by the Select Committee that the vast majority of the people of Papua New Guinea desire a strong central government and a united country. It accordingly believes that in the interest of the country as a whole separatism must be discouraged. In the Mission's opinion, however, the surest answer to separatist tendencies probably lies in steady progress towards full self-government and independence for the whole country. In Bougainville, the present sense of separateness might be further diminished if at some later date the people of the British Solomon Islands Protectorate were to opt for unification with an independent Papua New Guinea.' 
No special consultations have taken place with the British authorities regarding the speculation by the Visiting Mission. 
However, as indicated in reply to the honourable member's Question No. 154 of 20 May 1970 (Hansard ' page 2484) exchanges of views take place from time to time with the British authorities on the South Pacific and we keep each other informed on developments in each other's dependent territories. I am not aware of any significant trends in the British Solomon Islands Protectorate towards unification with Papua New Guinea. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) On examination of the proceedings of the League of Nations relating to this matter, it appears that the Chilean proposal was approved by 10 States, opposed by 5 and considered premature by 4. 
A similar proposal was raised in the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations in 1954 and the views of Member States were sought. Of the 30 States which replied, only 1 expressed agreement in principle for the reform of the present calendar. At its 21st session in 1956, the Council decided to adjourn indefinitely further calendar reform. The matter has not since been raised in the United Nations. 
Aboriginals: Pre-school Education (Question No. 2234) 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
It is, of course, true that on 19th August, after referring to some comment he had made at the National Press Club, the Leader of the Opposition said, according to Hansard, that he wished to add that after his speech to the Press Club he received a phone call from the Japanese Embassy to compliment him and to thank him on the balance of his presentation, lt would be obvious, I think, to other honourable, members that the last thing any member of this House should do is seek to embroil an embassy in the political affairs of this country. I think that this is to be deplored. I have known for nearly 3 weeks that this statement was without foundation, but I would not myself have raised this matter in the House. As the honourable member has asked me a question on it, I feel bound to give him and the House an answer. The facts are: On the same day, after these remarks were made in the House by the Leader of the Opposition, an official of the Janapese Embassy telephoned my Department to say that they were most concerned about the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition. The official of the Japanese Embassy said: 'The Ambassador is anxious that the Department s'-odd have an unequivocal assurance', which he gave, that there was no foundation for the statement'. 
No. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
No. Measurements at that time revealed a level only slightly higher than that always present and due to natural causes. This level is only a very small fraction of that which may be tolerated continuously without any hazard to health. 
See (2). 
Yes. 
Australian representatives at past sessions of the United Nations General Assembly have stated that Australia would like to see the partial test ban treaty of 1963 universally applied and supported. Australia is a party to this treaty which prohibits nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water. Moreover, the Australian Government has supported efforts in the United Nations to conclude a comprehensive test ban treaty which would suspend nuclear weapons testing in all environments. 
-I did see newspaper reports of a statement alleged to have been issued by  Mr Kinase,  who is Political and Press Counsellor of the Japanese Embassy. I think I should inform the House of certain additional facts relating to this matter. Firstly, I want to assure the House that what I said yesterday about the statement made to the Department of 
Foreign Affairs by a Japanese official on 19th August followed precisely the written record made of that conversation at that time. Secondly, I want to say that naturally we did not allow the matter to rest there and although I did not want to engage in great debate on this matter I should now inform the House that subsequently - I think on 23rd August - a very senior official of my Department spoke to the Japanese Ambassador,  Mr Saito.  The Ambassador said that he had checked with the Embassy and he remained satisfied that no comment in the terms claimed by  Mr Whitlam  was made. He also repeated in the course of this conversation with my official that no-one in the Embassy congratulated the Leader of the Opposition on his speech. Thirdly, as to the report of this statement by  Mr Kinase,  he is the Political and Press Counsellor at the Embassy.  Mr Saito,  the Ambassador, is at present overseas. The person in charge at the Embassy at the moment is  Mr Nishida,  the charge d' Affaires. I note that he also is reported this morning as making a statement as follows: 1 understand  Mr Bowen's  remarks were correct. As far as 1 know, no-one from the Embassy has made any phone calls to  Mr Whitlam  complimenting him on his speech. 
That is the end of the quotation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. We will, however, do so shortly. 
The Prime Minister had discussions with the Premier and Deputy Premier of Queensland on 8th April 1971 about the legislation concerning Aborigines' in that State and broad agreement was reached on the nature of changes which should be made in the legislation. The matter was briefly discussed at meetings of Commonwealth and State officials and Ministers in Cairns on 21st and 23rd April 1971. The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has subsequently corresponded with the Queensland Minister for Marine, Conservation and Aboriginal Affairs about the proposed changes in the Queensland legislation and had further discussions during his visit to Queensland early in August. It is understood that new legislation will be introduced into the Queensland Parliament before the end of the year. 
While there have not been discussions with the Western Australian government since 3rd May 1971, the government took action to remove from 1st July 1971, restrictions on the consumption of liquor by Aboriginals which had existed in certain areas of the State. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recommendation of the United Nations 
Visiting Mission, 1971, on the revision of the border between Papua and Queensland has not yet been drawn to the attention of the Queensland Government 
The question of the revision of the border between Papua and Queensland is a complex one and involves constitutional and other considerations to which priority attention is being given by the Government. 
The Queensland Government has indicated that it supports the 900 or so inhabitants of the Islands of Saibai, Dauan and Boigu (which would be affected by an adjustment of the boundary) in their opposition to any change in their status. 
 The answer provided by the Attorney-General to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that the Federal Trade Commission of the United States of America recently accepted provisionally an undertaking by Reader's Digest Association, Inc., of Pleasantville, New York to stop certain practices in connexion with promotional sweepstakes conducted by it. The undertaking was given by the Company without an admission that the practices were improper. The Commission bad earlier issued a complaint concerning alleged misrepresentations in connection with these contests. 
No. The Trade Practices Act deals with anti-competitive agreements and practices, but not with' conduct pf the kind referred to in the answer to part (1). 
I cannot say whether this is so. The Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General has, however, considered the need for legislation to deal with the general problem of unsolicited goods and services. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been a practice in the past of taping a message on SEATO Day. This year this was discussed and it was decided to send a statement. We did in fact send a statement, along with other governments. I do not know whether the honourable member has missed it but we did make a statement on this occasion, and this was the procedure followed by other interested governments. 
-I am aware of the deep concern of the honourable member for Moreton in regard to this matter. Certainly the Government and, I know, the people of Australia share his deep concern at the tragedy of the refugees from East Pakistan. I will not go over what has already been debated and fully stated in this House as to the efforts which have been made not only in the area of aid up to the present time. The House will be aware that this Government was the third in the world on the scene to supply aid of $lm and we have since given $500,000 worth of rice. We offered wheat but those concerned did not want it at that stage because they had some in store. We have been taking steps to try to get at what is really the origin of the conflict in East Pakistan. We have assisted the efforts made by the United Nations and also some attempts made under the aegis of the Commonwealth of Nations; they are both Commonwealth countries as we are. The Prime Minister has also made efforts to deal with this matter in personal correspondence. 
But I come to the substance of the honourable member's question, which is the current situation. The problem is so large with over 8 million refugees - more than half the population of this country - that it is clearly one that we cannot cope with alone in any real sense. We are endeavouring to work with other countries and with the United Nations in dealing with this problem. We have it under the closest review. We are constantly in touch with the 2 Governments, particularly when we are arranging aid which is being administered by the Government of India. We are closely in touch with that Government as to the precise requirements on the ground and the facilities for handling aid when it arrives. I will take up the particular question which the honourable member has raised. But I assure the House that at present we have this under very active consideration. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Discussions within the SEATO Council are confidential to the member governments, except to the extent that they are outlinedin the communiques issued by the Council 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Copies of the letters exchanged on 29th April 1965 between the Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam and the Australian Ambassador to the Republic of Vietnam were tabled in the House on 19th August. 
On 20th August the honourable the Leader of the Opposition, in the course of a question without notice, asked me whether 1 would table minutes of the conversations between the Australian Ambassador and the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam referred to in that exchange if letters. My reply was to the effect that, while there is of course a record of those conversations, it is not the practice to table confidential reports of that kind. 1 added that I certainly did not intend to change the practice. 
The foregoing applies equally to the question on notice asked by the Honourable Member for Capricornia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government's views on the problem of a settlement in Indo-China, including its views on the seven-point proposals put forward in Paris by the delegation of the so-called Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, were stated in my speech on international affairs on 18th August. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As indicated in my answer to the honourable member's question No. 3670, sovereignty over these islands is undetermined and claimed by a number of Stales. 
-I am aware of the considerable concern being expressed in many quarters for the plight of the refugees from East Pakistan. The honourable member for Holt refers to what he calls the small contribution from Australia. I do not think there is much I can add to what I said yesterday on this subject in answer to a question from the honourable member for Moreton. But this at least should be said: No matter what aid Australia gave, the magnitude of this problem is such that the aid would appear small. There are more refugees involved than half the population of Australia. Also I want to say that the aid which Australia gave was timely. Our aid was the third on the ground; it was completely appropriate and we have received the warmest commendation from the authorities that are involved. This does not answer the question as to whether the magnitude of this problem requires further review. As to that, of course. I cannot at question time commit the Government or myself as to what will be done but I repeat the assurance which I gave yesterday that this matter is under active consideration at this time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government has not hired any Hercules aircraft to provide aid to East Pakistan. One such aircraft was ' hired to assist distribution of aid to refugees who came to India from East Pakistan, lt was hired from Pacific Western Airlines Ltd of Vancouver initially to make fifteen flights from Singapore to Katmandu from 14th June to 7th July to carry equipment for an aid development project in Nepal. Following a request received from the Indian Government on 10th June for assistance in airfreighting supplies direct to refugees in Assam and Tripura, an additional contract was concluded for the same aircraft to ferry to Agartala some of the relief supplies already consigned to Calcutta. This flight was made on 1 7th June at a cost of SA4,200. 
The Government has arranged 7 RAAF Hercules flights from Australia (5 to Agartala and 2 to Calcutta) at weekly intervals from 17th June. Excluding their cargo, the estimated cost of these flights is $100,000. A further flight has been offered to the Indian authorities. 
Acting on behalf of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Government hired a Hercules aircraft from Pacific Western Airlines Ltd of Vancouver to make 3 flights to India in June. The costs of the aircraft and the loads of relief supplies were borne by UNICEF. 
Since the appeals for international assistance for Pakistani refugees in India and for East Pakistan were issued by the Secretary-General of the United Nations on 19th May and 16th June respectively, the following pledges have been announced by governments other than Australia: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A Protocol to the South-East Asia Collective Defence Treaty (the 'Manila Treaty'), which entered into force on the same day as the Treaty, namely 19th February 1955, designated Cambodia as a State to which the provisions of Article III and Article IV of the Treats were ici he applicable. 
On 1 1th April 1964 Prince Sihanouk, then Head of State of Cambodia, sent a letter to the SEATO Secretary-General stating that Cambodia ' ategorically refuses  (seato)  "protection" . . '. and requesting . 'the members of SEATO to acknowledge and to proclaim that (Cambodia) is not included within the boundaries of its zone of intervention'. In a further message dated 11th April 196S Prince Sihanouk asked '. that the members of SEATO formally recognise (Cambodia's) right to refuse protection contrary to its national interests'. The SEATO Secretary-General, in his reply dated 6th May 1965, said that:  . . according to Article IV, paragraph 3, of the Manila Treaty no action could be taken on the territory of Cambodia except at the invitation or with the consent of the Royal Cam bodian Government The SEATO members would of course respect this provision of the Treaty and the wishes of the Royal Cambodian Government in this context' 
Discussions within the SEATO Council are confidential to the member governments, except to the extent that they are outlined in the communiques issued by the Council.' 
Military Forces: Use in Times of Domestic Violence (Question No. 2364) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Notwithstanding extensive enquires overseas,it is not possible, for reasons that will appear below, to supply answers to the issues of law raised by several of the honourable member's questions. The position, however, is as follows: 
and (2) By the Peace Treaty of 1951, Japan renounced all right, title and claim to the Spratly and Paracel Islands (among other territories), but the treaty did not determine the sovereignty of these islands, either as between the Allies or otherwise. It is understood that a number of states claim the Spratly Islands and the Paracels. 
Sovereignty did not pass to the Soviet Union, by the terms of the treaty, in respect of any islands. 
Under international law, an island has its own continental shelf. By Article 3 of the treaty, Japan concurred in the placing of the islands there mentioned (including the Ryukus under the United Nations trusteeship system, under United States administration. 
In respect of the Spratly and Paracel Islands various unilateral declarations are understood to have been made, but so far as the Government is aware there is no international agreement regulating the matters concerned. 
We do not know whether the Spratly and Paracel Islands have permanent inhabitants, but believe they do not. The nationality of permanent inhabitants, if any, would presumably depend on the question of sovereignty, as to which see the answer to questions (1) and (2) above. The nationality of temporary inhabitants would, of course, depend on factors other than their mere presence on the islands. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
On 23rd May 1962, in relation to the decision to send a squadron of RAAF Sabre jet aircraft to Thailand, the Australian Permanent Representative to the United Nations informed the Acting SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations in the following terms. 
In a Parliamentary statement on 17th May 1962, the Australian Minister for External Affairs,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, said that recent military developments in Laos had given rise to great concern on the part of the Australian Government and its allies including the Government of Thailand. Communist advances, in violation of the cease-fire in Laos, were of immediate concern to Thailand because of their proximity to the Thai border.  Sir Garfield  Barwick said that the Australian Government, as a member of the South-East Asia Treaty Organisation, commended and fully endorsed the precautionary and defensive measures taken by the United States Government to help ensure the territorial integrity of Thailand, and was itself consulting with other South-East Asia Treaty Organisation members as to further measures which might need to be taken to this end, including the movement of further military forces into Thailand. 
I now wish to inform you that, following joint consultation with the Government of Thailand, the Australian Government has decided that an Australian contribution of forces should be stationed in Thailand to co-operate with Thai armed forces in maintaining the territorial integrity of that country. This decision has been made at the invitation of the Government of Thailand and in pursuance of the obligations of the Australian Government under the Manila Treaty.' 
On 4th May 1965, following the announcement of the decision to provide combat forces for service in South Vietnam, the Australian Acting Per manent Representative to the United Nations sent the following message to the  President  of the Security Council. 
I have the honour to inform you that the Australian Government has decided to despatch forces to South Vietnam in order to assist in securing its defence against the hostile activities, including armed attacks, which have been supported, organised, and directed by North Vietnam. 
This decision has been made at the request of the Government of the Republic of Vietnam and it is in accordance with Australia's international obligations'. 
en- The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable members' question: 
The determination of safety standards for motor vehiclesis not within my ministerial responsibility or that of my colleagues in the States. Accordingly, a proposal for legislation relating to such standards would not be an appropriate matter for consideration by the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State AttorneysGeneral. 
Having regard to the foregoing answer to part 1, no. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A law reform commission or committee has been established in each of the States and in tha Australian Capital Territory. 
I am unable to provide an answer to this part of the question as the information sought  is  unavailable to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
No. 
See answer to previous question. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The position in respect of both the matters mentioned by the honourable member remains as stated in September last in the replies to which he referred, except that Canada proclaimed fisheries closing lines on 18th December 1970. It is understood that a few States have expressed to the Canadian authorities their views on the proclamation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Ambassador to the United States held a number of functions in Newport, Rhode Island, at the time of the 1970 America's Cup races. The costs of two large functions were met from a special supplementary Representation Allowance. On each occasion when Australia has been a participant in the America's Cup Trials, the Government has made available funds to the Australian Ambassador to the United States for representation purposes. These occasions afford valuable opportunities for publicising Australia and the expenditure concerned is provided from funds specially allocated for these purposes. 
Details of the two functions are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information was provided to the Honourable Member in a letter dated 6th May 1971 from the then Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs: 
French Polynesia 
Minimum agricultural wage as from 1st December 1970 is CFP43.2* (approximately 40 cents) per hour. Usual rate is CFP500 (approximately $4.59) to CFP600 ($5.50) per day. Employers are entitled to deduct CFP43.2 for each meal provided and 5 per cent of salary if accommodation is provided but both are normally provided free. The working week remains at 48 hours. 
Note - CFP (which is an abbreviation of the French equivalent of French Pacific Franc) is the currency used in the French Pacific territories. 
Western Samoa 
The basic wage for an ordinary plantation labourer is $WS1.00 per day ($A1.25) for men or $WS0.80 ($A1.00) for women. Rates for foremen range from$WS1.50 ($A1.86) to$WS2.00 ($ A 2.50) depending on size of plantation and duties. 
Contract workers earn $WS0.25 ($A0.31) per 100 lbs of copra and$WS0.45 ($A0.56) per 100 lbs of cocoa or coffee. 
Workers are provided with rent free accommodation and allowed the use of small plots of land to grow domestic foodstuffs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The honourable member is referred to the answer given to his question No. 3422 on 19th August 1971. 
Papua: Visit by Select Committee (Question No. 4143) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of economic and social assistance to Vietnam are shown in the following publications, which are available through the Parliamentary Library: 'Economic and Social Aid to Vietnam', a report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Vietnam for the period up to 31st December 1970, about civil assistance from all foreign sources; the Operation Reports of the United States Agency for International Development for financial year 1971; the 'Report to the Ambassador from the Director ofthe United States Agency for International Development 1970' covering United States assistance to Vietnam. 
Twenty-three countries gave bilateral assistance to the Republic of Vietnam in 1970. The 8 major donors (more than$USlm) in order of the size of their assistance programmes were the United States, Germany, France, Australia.Japan, Canada and the Republic of China. 
A brief general summary of aid programmes of these donors follows: 
The United States: The United States continued to be by far the largest donor of assistance to Vietnam. Total United States economic and technical assistance to Vietnam in fiscal year 1971 (1970-71) was estimated at $US534m, excluding the Military Assistance Programme. The Commercial Import Programme has been estimated to cost $US270m, the Food for Peace (P.L. 480) programme $US115m and the Project Programme approximately$US159m. 
Germany: German assistance continued to be centred primarily in the field of medical care and social welfare activities. Limited economic assistance was given to projects previously financed with German grants or credits. The aid continued to be concentrated in Quang Nam Province in Region 1 and in the Saigon area. Total German bilateral aid in 1970 was $US5,440,650. 
Prance: France continued to provide both cultural and technical assistance at approximately the same level as during the preceding years. Most aid was a continuation of previous undertakings. Under the Cultural Assistance Service, France continued to provide senior staff, books and equipment to schools and cultural centres. Through its Technical Assistance Service it continued to provide experts and commodities to the public services in public health, technical and agricultural education, industry and handicrafts, and to many national medical and educational institutions. Total French bilateral aid in 1970 was $US5,094,088. 
Australia: Australian economic assistance to Vietnam in 1970-71 was $A2.916m, an increase of about $A0.9m on the previous year. The most important element of Australia's aid continued to be the provision of town water supplies. Current water supply projects, which accounted for more than$Al.lm in 1970-71, are for the cities of Can Tho, Saigon and Vung Tau. Other important items in 1970-71 were the improvements in Bien Hoa Hospital (complementary to a similar programme completed the previous year), surgical teams for the hospital, training of Vietnamese students in Australia, repairs to the Ban Me Thuot radio transmitters, and continuing Civic Action Work in Phuoc Tuy Province including the construction of housing for the families of members of the Regional/Popular Forces. 
Japan: Japanese aid to Vietnam in 1970 was $US 1,832,733. As in the past, it continued to be concentrated in the medical sector, although a larger proportion than in previous years was given to other forms of aid including a donation of assistance in the six-year plan to establish an agricultural faculty at Can Tho University, and construction of the television studio at the Instructional Materials Centre. Japan also made a relief grant to the Vietnamese Red Cross for victims of the typhoons of October 1970, and refugees from Cambodia. 
Canada: The Canadian Government continued its assistance in the form of grants for technical assistance, food aid, construction equipment and supplies. The value of Canada's total bilateral assistance to Vietnam in 1970 was$US1,639,832. No major new projects were commenced during the year. Construction of the auditorium for the Science Faculty at the University of Hue, suspended after the Tet offensive, was completed in 1970. Canada also provided emergency relief for refugee Vietnamese from Cambodia and for victims of the typhoons. 
Republic of China: Chinese bilateral assistance in 1970 was $US1, 171,040 and was primarily in the fields of agriculture (vegetable seeds, vaccines, water pumps, sprayers and other equipment); power (study or construction of a number of electric power projects); public works (including the continuation of the dredging project in the 
Mekong Delta); post and communications (postal equipment and motorcycles) welfare and relief (flood relief for Central Vietnam). 
Importation of Fancy Cheeses: Examination by Inter-departmental Committee  (Question No. 4020) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the following cars were in use by Heads of Mission (Ambassadors or High Commissioners) at overseas posts, as at 30th June 1971: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the General Assembly last year, Australia voted against a resolution which requested all states and organisations to 'suspend cultural, educational, sporting, and other exchanges', with South Africa as well as to terminate diplomatic, consular and other official relations and economic and technical co-operation with that country. Since then Australia has stressed to the United Nations Special Committee on Apartheid, the Government's abhorrence of apartheid and its disappointment over the South African Government's refusal to agree to the inclusion of nonwhites in its cricket team whose projected visit to Australia has now been cancelled. 
Do you mean the individual countries? 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The Governments which are believed to be or to have been claimants of sovereignty are: (a) Spratly Islands: People's Republic of China, Republic of China, France, Philippines, 
United Kingdom and Republic of VietNam. 
Paracel Islands: People's Republic of China, Republic of China and Republic of Viet-Nam. 
In providing this information, the Government takes no stand on the merits of or the current position in respect of any of the above claims. 
The individual islands in the Kurile chain to which Japan renounced all right, title and claim are not specified in the San Francisco Peace Treaty. There is a dispute between the USSR and Japan as to which islands constitute the Kurile chain. The Soviet Union is understood to have interpreted 'Kurile Islands' as including Etorofu, Kunashiri, Shikotan and the Habomais, the last being the most southerly. It has occupied all these islands. Japan claims Kunashiri and Etorofu as being the Southern Kuriles and historically and legally Japanese, and Shikotan and the Habomais to be part of Hokkaido, and hence all excluded from the scope of the San Francisco Treaty. Japan would accordingly regard the island of Urup as being the southernmost of the islands to which it renounced all right, title and claim. 
The Senkaku Islands are claimed by the Governments of the People's Republic of China and of the Republic of China. These islands have been administered by the United States under Article 3 of the Peace Treaty as part of the Ryukyu group and are included within the geographical area which the United States has agreed to return to Japan under the terms of the Japan/United States Agreement concerning the Ryukyu and Daito Islands of 17th June 1971. 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
This question calls for a statement of policy which I do not propose to make at this time. 
by leave - As we have made plain for many months and as we have asserted in the speeches delivered on Australia's behalf in the General Assembly and by the resolutions we have co-sponsored, we have supported the representation of the People's Republic of China in the General Assembly and their occupation of the seat on the Security Council. We are therefore pleased that the People's Republic of China will now be enabled to be represented in the United Nations and take the seat on the Security Council. A vote was taken at the United Nations General Assembly on Monday - they are 15 hours behind us - first on the question whether priority should be accorded to the non-expulsion resolution which Australia and 21 other countries were co-sponsoring. The vote was in favour of according priority for the vole on this resolution before the vote was taken on the Albanian resolution. The result of the vote was 61 in favour, 53 against with 15 abstentions. A vote was then taken on the non-expulsion resolution of which Australia was co-sponsor. The result was that this motion was lost, with 55 votes in favour, 59 against and 15 abstentions. 
A motion was moved by the leader of the American delegation to divide the Albanian resolution for the purpose of the vote. This was ruled out of order by the  President  of the Assembly and this ruling was supported by a vote of the Assembly. A vote was then taken on the Albanian resolution and this was carried by 76 in favour, 35 against, and 17 abstentions. Australia voted against this resolution. In view of the vote on the Albanian resoluion no vote will now be taken on the dual representation resolution of which Australia was also co-sponsor with 18 other countries, and which in its terms would have provided for the representation of the People's Republic of China and its taking the seat on the Security Council and would also have provided for the continued representation of the Republic of China. I will seek to table copies of each of the substantive resolutions referred to at the conclusion of my statement. Honourable members have been aware of the general nature of these resolutions. 
Yes, I seek leave to incorporate them in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Halletf) 

Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The documents read as follows): 
I have not got the information. I will get it and supply it to you. In the course of the debate on the 
Albanian resolution andprior to thevote being taken, the Foreign Minister of the Republic of China,  Mr Chow  Shu-kai, announced that his Government would take no further part in the business of the 
United Nations General Assembly. It is a disappointment to us that the collective decision of the United Nations membership should result in the Republic of China losing its place in the world organisation. 
The Government of the Republic of China remains in effective control of Taiwan, as the Government of the People's Republic also controls the mainland of China. The authority of either in their respective territories is not altered by this decision. We recognise, however, that the People's Republic of China claims sovereignty over Taiwan, and the Republic of China claims sovereignty over Taiwan and the Mainland. We do not expect an early resolution of these conflicting claims. But our great and continuing desire is to see all countries in the region live in peace and we shall, in our policies, continue our efforts towards that end. We shall continue pursuit of our dialogue with the People's Republic of China, with a view to the progressive normalisation of our relations with it. 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Elections were held throughout the Republic of Viet-Nam on 3rd October. The latest figures indicate that 6,327,631 people (87.9 per cent of the 7,192,660 registered voters) actually voted. Final figures will not be available until the Supreme Court has declared the poll. In accordance with the arrangements under which the elections were conducted, the declaration will be made some time before 26th October. 
The Australian Government would not wish to comment on allegations made in the context of elections held in another country. 
Both the Republic of Viet-Nam and the United States of America have indicated that proposals put forward so far by the Communists are not acceptable. This is because the proposals set two pre-conditions for negotiations: first, that all foreign troops assisting the Government of the Republic of Viet-Nam be unilaterally withdrawn; and second, that a coalition government be formed in which the Communists would be given representation out of all proportion to their actual support. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 22nd June 1971, the Transvaal Supreme Court dismissed  Mr Sobukwe's  action seeking to compel the Minister of Justice to lift the order restricting him to Kimberley. The court ruled that the banning order served on  Mr Sobukwe  was equivalent to a court order of imprisonment and therefore should take precedence over the privilege conferred by the exit permit. 
An appeal against the Supreme Court's decision has been set down for hearing on 9th November 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The members of the Cricket for Free China Committee at the time of the visit in January 1970 by the University students' cricket team were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Broadly speaking. Yes; but the resolution on the Strengthening of International Security eventually adopted by the General Assembly in December 1970 was considerably different in its terms from the draft, originally co-sponsored by Australia and others, to which the Honourable Member refers. 
In its essence, the war in Indo-China is a classic case of individual and collective self-defence against aggression of North Vietnam. Different views about the applicable principles of international law are held by different parties to the conflict. But it would be wrong either to describe the war in Indo-China as a 'legal dispute' or to suppose that the war could be brought to an end by promoting an external decision on the legal issues that have been raised. 
The Australian Government has long maintained the view that peace cannot be restored in Indo-China except through a negotiated political settlement. Consistently with this view Australia has supported moves to bring the matter before the United Nations, which, however, were successfully opposed by the Soviet Union and other supporters of North Viet-Nam. For the same reason Australia has also supported the arrangements for talks in Paris. These talks have been referred to frequently by the communist side as a proper and adequate channel for negotiations; unfortunately the position of the communist side has been such as to prevent meaningful progress being achieved. 
Pursuant to section 314 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966- 1970, I present the fourth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. (2)-(4) The code deals with substantial matters of principle. The AttorneyGeneral said in the Senate on 25th August 1971 that legislation will be introduced by means of a Bill for an Act of the Parliament. 
The Attorney General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Commonwealth Government does not provide legal assistance in these cases. 
Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory: Criminal Code (Question No. 3968) 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1H4) An Administrative Review Committee was set up by the then Attorney-General,  Mr Nigel  Bowen, Q.C., on 29th October 1968 to consider matters relating to the review of administrative decisions, and to report its conclusions to the Government. The Committee, constituted as mentioned in the question, sent me its Report on 25th August 1971. The Report was tabled on 14th October 1971. 
The Attorney General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 

 Mr Justice Bright enquired into matters connected with a moratorium demonstration in the streets of Adelaide. The control of such demonstrations is essentially a matter for a State Police Force or, in a Territory, for the Police Force of the Territory. 
Dealing with the first part of the honourable member's question, although I have discussed this matter with a very large number of delegates in New York it would be very hard to make a judgement about the influence on the votes of particular members of the United Nations of the fact that the Republic of Taiwan did not feel it was in a position to say - 
-I mean, the Republic of China. Thank you for correcting me. The Republic of China on Taiwan did not announce whether in the event of one form of motion being carried it would adopt one course or another in remaining in. lt is possible this did have an effect on some of the votes. On the other band it is difficult to say whether it did or not. I would say 2 things in relation to the second part of the question. On the important question motion, which we co-sponsored, and which got priority over the Albanian motion for a vote, it was provided, as honourable members will recall, that any motion which would invovle the expulsion of any member would be an important question requiring a two-thirds majority to pass. 
It has been suggested that Australia may in some way have been out of step with other countries in this area: nothing could be further from the truth. Joining with us in voting in favour of the important question motion were Thailand, Indonesia, the Phillippines, Cambodia and Japan. I appreciate that Malaysia and Singapore did not join us, but they have a particular problem with their indigenous Chinese population which we fully understand. It would be ridiculous to suggest, after the conversations which I had with the Foreign Ministers of the nations in our area, that Australia was in that respect in any way out of step with other nations in this area. Nevertheless, when the vote was going against that important question motion there was, one could say, a movement of votes during the course of this debate on Monday night in the United Nations to join those who were voting in favour of the Albanian motion. This resulted in a 76 to 35 majority for the Albanian motion, as honourable members are aware. As to whether it is possible, as the honourable member for Angas has suggested, that there will be some future initiative, I am not in a position to express an opinion. But that was the record of events as they occurred on those 2 motions. 
Dealing with the first part of the honourable member's question, I think that this aspect of the payment of freight is getting somewhat out of perspective. Where allocations are made, as Australia and other countries have made them, out of funds allocated to the Food Aid Convention there is a rule that they have to be f.o.b. the country making them. We cannot, as it were, deduct the freight and give a lesser amount. A country gives its aid and it is f.o.b. It could make- 
If the honourable member wants to hear the answer it would be better if he remained silent. It would be possible for any country to make a cash gift in respect of freight in addition. I just say that as far as Food Aid Convention material is concerned, this was an allocation in respect of East Pakistan made by Australia where normally the country concerned would bear the freight. In this case they asked the United Nations to bear the cost of freight and the United Nations took it up. I will later be making a statement on this subject and I do not think I want to develop further that part of the honourable member's question. 
As to the offer of the South Australian branch of the Seamen's Union to man ships free of charge for the carriage of supplies to the affected area, I understand that such a telegram has been sent to my colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise. I think it is a very generous offer and it reflects the humanitarian feeling that is in the Australian people, extending throughout the whole spectrum of political belief, and I welcome it. However, I would just point out that at the present time with the carriage of rice we have been endeavouring, in conjunction with the United Nations, to make the best possible financial arrangements. One ship, the 'Un.:.... Maru' has been loaded, and negotiations are in progress to obtain another ship. As honourable members can imagine, we have been looking for ways in which to effect the best possible savings so that the aid goes as far as it can possibly be made to go. In view of this offer we will have a look at the matter to see whether it is possible to accept it. It would, as it were, allow these people to give vent to their idealistic approach to this problem. But it will be a matter for those in authority who have the responsibility for getting the aid to the affected areas to weigh the expenses involved and to give me advice on the matter. But I appreciate the offer, and I will certainly give it close consideration. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the Commonwealth Polic Act 1957-1966, I present the annual report of the Commissioner of Police on the operation of the Commonwealth Police Force and summary of its activities for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
by leave - I rise to make a further statement on the question of emergency relief aid. Honourable members are aware of the problem of refugees from East Pakistan, which has now assumed such enormous proportions. From the beginning of this problem the Government has kept closely in touch with the situation and has been in contact with local authorities and United Nations authorities. The Government's intitial contribution was promptly made. The position continued to deteriorate. On 8th June following an announcement of additional aid by the Prime Minister, the then Minister for Foreign Affars,  Mr Bury,  referring to this additional grant, said that in these emerging and rapidly changing conditions it was important to keep the priority needs of the refugees constantly under review. 
The Government has carried on this close review of the situation and has responded to the deteriorating situation by grants which now total $3m. Unfortunately the political situation which has produced this great humanitarian problem has so far eluded solution. The position now is that there are some 9 million refugees in need in India and a great deal of suffering and distress also in East Pakistan. The Government, in pursuance of its constant review and assessment of the situation and having in mind what it believes to be an international obligation of this country in this unfortunate situation, has now decided to make a grant of additional aid amounting to $2.5m, of which $500,000 will be a direct cash grant to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The remaining $2m will be allocated in a flexible way to the provision of urgently needed items. We will be consulting with the local and United Nations authorities before deciding on the specific ways in which this amount will be spent. 
It is not just a matter of agreeing to provide funds. It is equally important to ensure that these funds are employed in bringing relief effectively to refugees who are most in need. Our High Commissioner in India,  Mr Shaw,  has been keeping in close touch with the Indian authorities and has been making regular on-the-spot investigations. Having now decided to make a further substantial grant of aid we will be following the matter up through him. We are proposing to have  Mr Shaw  return shortly to Australia to report to us on this matter and to receive briefing as part of our continuing review. The Government's record in providing aid to the urea has been a good one. We sought to control our aid in a way which has ensured that it reached the area promptly, that it was in a form which matched the needs and that it efficiently reached those for whom it was intended by delivering it as required at Calcutta and upcountry airports. Indeed, we received commendation from the Indian authorities, which came forward in a message from which I quoted in the House on 18th August. I think this bears repeating. 
I said: 
Although relatively small in magnitude- this, of course, relates to the early effort in response to the problem in its early stages - 
Australia's timely refugee relief has been greatly appreciated by the Government of India and by the Government of the States directly concerned. This gratitude has been expressed on numerous occasions by Indian Ministers and senior officials, both privately and publicly. Apart from the humanitarian aspect of the relief aid our contribution has had a very valuable impact on IndoAustralian relations generally, out of all proportion to its magnitude. We were correct in our early decision to deal directly with the Indian Government, to consult with it about what was wanted and where it was wanted. Each air lift of our relief supplies was well-planned and executed. Thereby we avoided the delays and frustrations suffered by other governments and agencies. Moreover Indian Government officials had the feeling that we are working with them and not supervising or directing them and we have been overwhelmed with thanks.' 
This was a rather lengthy message and I shall skip some of it but it also states: 
The plastic polyfabric material supplied by Australia was particularly successful. We have inspected camps largely constructed from it In Tripura, Assam and West Bengal. It has saved many lives and international agencies and other donor governments are now providing similar material. And as for our medical supplies, they have been well-selected and packaged and are being put to good use.' 
We have continued this policy and as lately as 24th October we have received a further warm commendation from the Indian authorities. In a message received on 24th October from  Mr Shaw  the following passage occurs: 
During official talks last week Foreign Secretary T. N. Kaul and Secretary of Economic Affairs I. G. Patel both thanked Australia for its prompt and effective refugee assistance which they described as .-.--'.- , 
This amount of $2. 5m which I have just announced is additional to the existing aid estimates for 1971-72. The Australian Government is not diverting aid from any other area or country in providing this assistance which will bring the total of the Government's emergency relief to the area of S5.5m since last May. The private contributions of citizens and organisations have to be brought into account in order to obtain a full picture of the total Australian effort. I would like to pay a tribute to the generous spirit with which Australians have responded to the appeals. On the figures available to me as at 24th September an amount approaching $2m in cash and kind had been sent to India. 
The question of providing relief for the refugees has been recognised as an international one. The Government acknowledges its obligation to make a significant contribution to the international effort. The major economic powers and the major donors of aid to India, particularly the United States and Britain, are making the largest contribution to the international relief effort. However, the Australian Government's record in providing aid for the refugees has been a good one. Australia's performance since May in responding to this situation places us in fourth position amongst donor countries, when our aid is assessed as is normally done, as a percentage of gross national product. I believe it is a concern of all Australians that in aid matters it is performance that counts, not promises. It has been a disappointment to Australia that for the past four calendar years from 1967 to 1970 the total volume of official development assistance from all countries who are members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has remained static. This has become known as the problem of aid fatigue' in the major donor countries. But Australia's aid has not remained static. During the same period our aid has in fact increased. I believe Australia can be proud of its aid record. 
In the situation which faces the world on the Indian sub-continent, relief aid can deal only with a symptom of a deeper trouble. This is not the occasion to deal with the deeper problems which are causing this human suffering. Honourable members are aware of the situation and I referred on 18th August in this House to some of the initiatives being taken by the Government wi an attempt to influence constructive moves towards a solution. The hope of the Australian Government is that in the face of this tragic situation enmities will be set aside and strenuous efforts will be made by those in authority to bring about an early solution. We shall certainly continue our own efforts towards this end. In the meantime, the need for aid relief will continue and the Government will maintain its constant review of the situation. I present the following paper: 
Emergency Relief Aid - Ministerial Statement, 27th October 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information provided by governments in response to the SecretaryGeneral's 1968 inquiry was published by the United Nations in two reports, namely document A/7197 dated 14th November 1968 and A/7635 dated 15th December 1969. The Australian information was not submitted in time for its inclusion in the 1968 report but its submission in June 1969 ensured that it would be included along with the reports of  a  number of other countries in the 1969 report. 
While I cannot give specific dates  of all  this correspondence between the Commonwealth and States I can state that inquiries were made  of  the States in April 1964 (and replies received through April,June of that year), in July 1968 (and replies received through July,August) and in July 1970 (and replies received through July, October). 
The information supplied to the Secretary General and the dates on which it was provided are contained in document, E/C N6/470/Add 2  of  15th February 1967, document A/7635 of 15th December 1969 and document A/8132/Add  1 of  17th December 1970. 
The information supplied to the Secretary General by Australia and other Governments is available in the United Nations documents which are referred to in my answers to questions (1) and (2). These documents are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
This amendment is acceptable to the Government. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
 Mr Acting Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on the Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and also the Northern Territory Supreme Court Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest,  Mr Acting Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The amendment is accepted by the Government. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
-I am not aware of any requests having been received from recipient countries for canned deciduous fruit. We base our aid on the principle that we should consult very closely with the receiving countries on their wishes as to the type of aid they require. That is the basic principle. This matter therefore has not come up as a priority. However, in view of the fact that it has been raised by the honourable member for Murray, I will have my officers who deal with foreign aid matters bear it in mind. 
This enormous problem which commenced earlier this year has been progressively deteriorating. Honourable members are aware of the facts. The Government has adopted the approach which I believe to be a proper one of keeping the matter constantly under review. We made a very prompt and effective initial contribution which went direct to those who were urgently in need. This aid included vaccines, shelter and so on. In fact other countries have since been copying some of our methods of giving aid. Since then we have kept closely in touch through our representatives, with the local authorities and with the United Nations authorities on the spot. We have progressively made grants to meet the situation as we saw it. As to the latter part of the honourable member's question, we regard ourselves as representatives of the Australian people and we hope we interpret the wishes of the Australian people. 
We believe we do. We have shown over a good many years that we interpret them a good deal more effectively than does the honourable member for Wills. The honourable member for Wills, being on the other side of the fence, may wish to describe our actions as the result of pressure, but the fact is that we believe that what we have done has been a very proper response in the circumstances. As I said last night, it puts us fourth on the list of donors to this area, measured by the internationally accepted methods of measuring these things, that is as a percentage of the gross national product. The honourable member asks whether the action we have taken has been a reaction to someone fasting outside the House. May I say to the honourable member- 
Government Supporters - Sit down. 
The honourable member raised the question of quantum but he did make some reference to someone outside the House. 
 There is perhaps one matter upon which I might make a brief comment. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  referred to the question of internal appeals in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. This is a matter that has been under consideration. I will certainly call the attention of my colleague the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to the suggestions which have been made on it and on the other matters that have been referred to. Perhaps I could just add this comment: No doubt as the population of the Australian Capital Territory grows the number of resident judges will also grow. There would be more room perhaps for the Supreme Court to be sitting in banc in those circumstances than there is at the present time with visiting judges of the 
Commonwealth Industrial Court, but that may be a matter of opinion. The origin of the suggestion for a Commonwealth Superior Court was pressure on the High Court in its original jurisdiction rather than pressure in the appellate jurisdiction. There is no pressure of which I am aware from the High Court, in relation to the quantity of appeals coming before it, for us to institute any filtering process in the Australian Capital Territory. However, I accept the argument that so far as the litigant and the profession in the Australian Capital Territory are concerned, the High Court is some distance away. I am sure that the Attorney-General will take these matters under consideration. 
This is an interesting proposition. Having some knowledge of the New South Wales law as well as the Commonwealth law on this subject I can say that I think there would be quite considerable problems in reaching a consensus with the States to achieve this uniformity. As to the steps to be taken to do it, as this would involve policy matters it would fall outside the province of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General and it would be more a matter for the Minister for Labour and National Service in the Commonwealth sphere and for the State Ministers who in some States have the title of Minister for Labour and Industry. If it was designed as a matter of policy to achieve this uniformity then those Ministers would be the ones to speak together on it. 
-I understood that a motion was to be moved on this subject. No doubt the facts will be gone into fully at that stage. However, I answer the question by saying that it came to my attention when the letter from the Minister for Defence to the Prime Minister was forwarded to me and I concurred in its being put to the Prime Minister. I think that was on the 26th of last month, shortly before the Prime Minister left Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It would not be in accordance with practice to disclose, in answer to a Parliamentary question, the advice given by an individual Minister on  a  matter of Government policy. 
A us tralian National Gallery: Director (Question No. 2087) 
-I am aware of the reports. I have not read the latest report but I have been informed of it. It is a fact that 2 Russians, a  Dr  Soloviev  and a  Mr  Strakhovsky,  did apply for residence in Australia. I should make it clear that they did not at any time apply for political asylum. They applied for residence and approval was given by the Minister for Immigration. Subsequently one of them.  Dr Soloviev,  changed his mind and decided to return to Russia.  Mr  Strakhovsky,  on the other, hand, adhered to his decision to stay in Australia. I am informed that my departmental officers interviewed  Dr So!0.viev.  We are not aware of any reason to suppose that any improper pressure was brought to bear upon him or that the decision of either of them was other than a decision ultimately arrived at according to his own free choice. I am therefore not able to confirm or express a view on some of the matters which have been referred to by the honourable member. I have no information about whether there was a scuffle, at the airport. Of course, anyone iti Australia is entitled to the protection of our laws here, but he is : also entitled to free movement. If a man, reversing an earlier decision to stay here, makes a decision to return to his homeland, it is not in our province to prevent him from doing so. 
-I am not aware of any invitation having been issued to the Emperor of Japan to visit Australia or such an invitation having been discussed. However, dealing rather with the latter part of the honourable member's question, it is obvious that since the conclusion of the last World War the interests of Australia and Japan in the modern world have become quite close and, to some degree, complementary, particularly in the economic field and, to another degree, in regard to the security and stability of the area in which we have been working together. I would hope to see this co-operation continue. 
There was another part of the question about the Prime Minister. Will the honourable member repeat that portion of his question? 
-I am not aware whether the Prime Minister will be extending an invitation. Coming to the latter part and the point of substance of the honourable member's question, the policy of the Government is to have close co-operation with the Japanese. Recently, as honourable members know, the Government announced the establishment of a joint committee of Ministers. This will be meeting alternately in Japan and in Australia and consulting on our respective interests. 
The purpose of my visit to Saigon was to attend the inauguration of President Thieu. That was my only official business there. While I was there I took the opportunity of going by helicopter to Vung Tau and having discussions of a general character not only with military and Air Force personnel but with my own representatives, and these covered a very wide ranging field. However, in substance, I think I would have to give a negative answer. I did not raise that specific matter. 
The procedure in the Department of Foreign Affairs when, as happens daily, there is contact with some other Government is that if the matter concerns any other department it is taken up with the operative department or departments, and if it concerns matters which should be brought to the immediate attention of the Minister then it is brought to the attention of the Minister. However, there would be very many matters which would be brought to the attention of the Minister after they had been investigated, as the Leader of the Opposition, or it may have been the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, said yesterday, so that a memorandum can be put before the Minister. In this particular instance I think my Department acted promptly in passing to the Department of Defence, which was the principal Department concerned, this low key approach as to whether Australia would be concerned about or interested in the matter raised. My Department acted very promptly but, as this occurred prior to a long weekend, the letter took from 1st October to 5th October to reach the Department of Defence. It was a matter of judgment. With hindsight one can say, sitting in a particular chair, that one may or may not have exercised a different judgment. It is very easy after the event to make these kinds of charges. I am not prepared to criticise the judgment of my officer on 1st October to send that communication promptly to the Department of Defence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No senior members of the United States Government visited Australia in December 1964 or January 1965. A reference in the so-called Pentagon Papers to a visit by  Mr William  Bundy in December 1964 was not correct. 
We did formally protest against the testing by the French in the Pacific. The honourable member for Lalor will recall that the French, having made a test, did not proceed with a later test which they had planned to undertake, giving as the reason that they had secured sufficient information from the earlier test. The American test was an underground one and is not covered by the conventions to which we are a party. We have been a party to agreements to ban open air testing with the risk of fallout, but these agreements do not cover underground testing which has now been engaged in by the Americans. As to the last part of the question, I have no information to give the honourable member about the possibility of discovering oil. 
-I take it that this question refers to an Australian citizen, Martin Cohen, who, with 3 other citizens, one a West German and the other 2 British, has been detained under the Terrorism Act of 1967 of South Africa. They are photographers. The Government has, through the Australian Embassy in Pretoria, approached the South African 
Foreign Affairs Minister with a view to arranging a visit to  Mr Cohen.  These arrangements are progressing. We have been assured that he is in good health. We have passed this information on to his parents in Sydney with whom we have been keeping in close touch. 
-I did read some Press reports - whether they were accurate or not I have no means of checking - which suggested that the Leader of the Opposition was giving some gratuitous advice to that Government. But I have not had any reaction from the Japanese Government on this occasion. 
A tidal wave followed a cyclone and it has affected the people of Orissa. There have been various reports about the matter. Certainly the Press reports indicated that there had been 10,000 deaths - the number ultimately might prove to be greater than that - and that 500,000 people had been affected. It was stated also that 250,000 of these people had been rendered homeless and that there was very considerable destruction of rice crops. I have taken the opportunity to discuss this matter with our High Commissioner in India.  Mr Patrick  Shaw, who has been brought back to Australia by the Government to discuss the question of aid to the East Pakistan refugees in India and also this problem arising from the cyclone. We are currently looking into the matter. I do not think that these figures would necessarily be accurate or the final figures, but there is no doubt that a very considerable disaster has occured in the area. 
I am not able to tell the honourable member at the moment what the Government will do in relation to this matter. It is something which currently we are studying, and 1 might say that I shall have a further talk with  Mr Patrick  Shaw tomorrow. However, the Government has a policy of acting promptly to get aid on the ground in areas requiring assistance. 1 could call attention to the fact that disasters occur from time to lime. One cannot estimate when they will occur. Since the refugee problem arose, of course, there was a typhoon in South Vietnam about 3 weeks ago known as Hester, which caused enormous damage in that country. The Government acted promptly on that occasion, having ascertained that many people were homeless because roofs had been blown off their houses. Earlier this month 4,800 sheets of corrugated iron, which was said to be very useful for the area affected, were loaded on to the 'Harima Maru', and they are on their way. They should get promptly on to the ground in the area affected and give aid where it is needed. We will be looking closely at the results of the Orissa disaster in the same way as the Government has done in all these other instances. 
-With regard to the establishment of the Institute of Criminology I know that there has been some difficulty in obtaining a suitable director but whether this is the reason for the delay I do not know. I will refer that part of the question to my colleague in another place. In reply to the second part of the question, I know that the criminal code has been the subject of very considerable study within the Attorney-General's Department. When I was Attorney-General one officer was working full time on this matter. That person went overseas and when he returned he applied the knowledge he had gained to this subject. In addition we had independent judicial assistance. Whether it would be satisfactory to have a select committee inquire into this subject would be a matter of judgment. It is in one sense highly technical but on the other hand it does involve policy decisions as to the type of penalty for various offences and this would be something which could be considered by a select committee. I will refer the honourable gentleman's suggestion to my colleague in the other place. I do not think I would like to see created a select committee which might further delay the introduction of the code. 
-I will refer the honourable member's question to my colleague the Minister for Immigration. I am not aware of any recent government to government communications coming to my Department. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The purchase price for the building site recently purchased in Saigon was $674,000. The site contains the partly finished (to first floor level) frame work for an hotel. This can be incorporated into the Chancery building. 
Plans and specifications for the proposed Chancery have yet to be drawn up and approved, and, consequently, estimates have not yet been determined. With the recent conclusion of the purchase of the site the necessary action is being put in train. 
Subject to (2) above, tentatively the gross floor area is expected to be of the order of 25,000 sq ft. 
Australia-based staff- 33. 
Locally-engaged staff - 45.  (5)Costisasfollows: 
 The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: (l), (2) and (3) A submission was made to the. then Attorney-General on 16th December 1969. It is not the practice to make documents of this nature available to members. As to the present position, see my answer to Question No. 2975. 
 The Attorney-General has supplied the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
(a) 16th December 1969. (b) Decisions have not yet been made with regard to these matters. They are being further examined in the light of representations that have been received and of decisions of the Courts since the abovementioned date. 
No. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Death Penalty Abolition Bill 1970 introduced in the Senate was, on 13th October 1971, referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report. Further consideration will be given to the matter as soon as that Committee has made its report. 
As the representative of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in this place I want to say that I have listened carefully to the speeches which have so far been made on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. I would like to express appreciation to those honourable members who have put forward constructive ideas. I will ensure that they are brought to the attention of the Attorney-General. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
See answer to question (1). 
It is true that there is a meeting scheduled for 25th November at Kuala Lumpur of the 5 nations which constitute ASEAN. Australia is not a member of this group. This meeting was foreshadowed when I was in New York and I had discussions with the foreign ministers of the 5 countries. I am aware of the general proposals. One of the proposals to be discussed would be an initiative of Malaysia for declaring as a neutral area the area of South East Asia. This is a concept which they will discuss and I think it would be premature to make any detailed comment on it before they have had the opportunity to discuss it and arrive at conclusions. 
However, I would say that Australia would, of course, support any initiative which might lead to greater security or stability in this area. But I should say also that in any proposal to declare an area a neutral area there are great practical difficulties. When one gets down to specifics as to who is to police the actual neutralisation of the area and guarantee it, this is the point at which these kinds of proposals require very careful consideration. However, in principle,, we support anything directed to the security and stability of the area. 
I rise to refer to the points made by some honourable members in discussing the estimates of the Department of Foreign Affairs. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  and the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  both raised the question of additional overseas representation for Australia, particularly in Africa. Special reference was made to East Africa. I am aware of the situation of our representation and of the case that oan be put for increasing this representation in areas like Africa, but this is always a policy question. In fact, since the last world war we have created an overseas Foreign Affairs service in an extraordinarily short period of time and we now have 68 missions, all of them of a good professional standard. Increased representation is a question which we will keep under review. It is a policy question. 
Various other speakers referred particularly to the question of aid to the refugees from East Pakistan. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  particularly spoke on this topic. I would like to point out in response to their remarks that Australia is now one of the substantial contributors to the international relief effort for the Pakistani refugees. As honourable members know, the Government's contribution to the area now totals S54m and the value of contributions from private citizens and voluntary organisations is about S2m. Australia's permanent representative to the United Nations.  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, notified the Secretary-General on 27tb October of the level of our aid. In a letter dated 1st November 1971 to our permanent representative U Thant said: 
I am most grateful for the continued generous response of the Australian Government to my various appeals for humanitarian assistance for the refugees in India. I have also taken note with deep appreciation of the contributions for the same purpose made by Australian private citizens and voluntary organisations, amounting to over SA2 million. I request you to convey to them, through your Government, the expression of my gratitude for their efforts and generosity in providing humanitarian assistance to the displaced people from East Pakistan in India. 
In this regard, I am gratified to note that the total Australian public and private contributions now exceed $US8,61 7,000. 
Following my announcement to the House on 27th October,  Mr Patrick  Shaw, the Australian High Commissioner in New Delhi, visited Calcutta and many of the refugee camps late last week and had discussions with the Indian and United Nations authorities. He has reported to my colleagues and me this week, and has had several talks with me, on the situation in the area and the requirements for refugee relief. There has been an immediate approval of provision of 10,000 blankets which are required for the oncoming cold weather, 330 tons of castor sugar to mix with the milk in the children's diet and 5,000 tons of ordinary sugar which is mixed with the ration for adults. Arrangements are being made for the shipping of the sugar and for the air transportation of the blankets so that they will get there promptly. There will be further aid, on the priorities which  Mr Shaw  has recommended, including shelter, medicines and other items. These will be supplied as soon as it is practicable. 
21368/71  - -R-  [H9) 
I would like to take the opportunity of mentioning the plight of the people of the State of Orissa in India. As has been mentioned in this House, they were affected by a cyclone which struck the area, and damage was caused by a tidal wave. This damage is probably not as great as was at first feared, but it is substantial and has added a very great burden to the Indian authorities who have to cope with the influx of the East Pakistan refugees as well. The Indian Government has approved emergency allocations of rice and other food grains to the area and is taking measures to cope with the situation. We have been informed that the United States is making a contribution of $US25,000 and the Federal Republic of Germany is making one of about $US 11,000. I understand Britain will shortly be announcing a contribution. I wish to announce as a gesture of support for India's own efforts to bring relief to the Orissa State area that we have decided to make a cash contribution of $10,000 to the Indian Red Cross foi use in connection with that disaster, that being somewhat less than 50 per cent of the United States contribution. 
One other matter I would like to mention is the question of the independence of Australian foreign policy. I point out to honourable members that, at any rate since I have been concerned in decisions of government in the Ministry and in the Cabinet, it has been the practice, on the best advice which we can get on foreign policy matters, as on other matters, to arrive at a decision on any particular question in the best interests of Australia as we see them. This is entirely an independent stand. Of course, from time to time even on foreign policy we find ourselves in difference with the United Kingdom or the United States. We do not make a great play of publicising these occasions where we are in difference. On many other occasions, of course, we find that our policies coincide with those of our friends and allies, and this is to be expected. It is natural. One would only expect that this would be so, and it is not a matter of criticism when it is so. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  made some reference - and I will not take much time over this - to a speech which I had made when 1 was in New 
York, and he criticised it. He claimed that it was adulatory of the United States and he criticised one word in it, that word being 'insignificant'. From his criticism I do not think the honourable member has actually read the speech; otherwise he could not have said what he said about it. It is necessary to read the speech and to get the thing in context. I think that if this is done it will be quite clear that far from being adulatory it was in fact a critical speech. I certainly do not withdraw from anything which I said in it and I think that most Australians, if they read it fairly and honestly and without some political axe to grind, will agree with it. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Health 
Proposed expenditure, $44,832,000. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to rectify a situation under the Matrimonial Causes Act disclosed by two recent decisions of the High Court of Australia. For many years it has been the practice in several States for some judicial powers under the Matrimonial Causes Act to be exercised by officers of the supreme courts such as registrars in divorce and masters, instead of by judges. These officers have made orders with respect to such matters as maintenance payments, property rights and access to children. However, last December the High Court held, in the case of Kotsis v. Kotsis, that the Registrar of the Supreme Court of New South Wales was not part of that court but was merely an officer of it. He had not, therefore, been invested with Federal jurisdiction by the Matrimonial Causes Act, and any order of a judicial nature made by him in the purported exercise of Federal jurisdiction was a nullity. 
The decision in Kotsis v. Kotsis was followed in May of this year by a further decision of the High Court in the case of Knight v. Knight, which related to the position of the Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia. The High Court held that the position of the Master of that court was indistinguishable from that of the Registrar of the Supreme Court of New South Wales and that, accordingly, the Master lacked jurisdiction to make orders of the kind he had for some time been making. The High Court's decision in Knight v. Knight also cast doubt on a South Australian practice in accordance with which persons appointed as commissioners of the supreme court - usually retired judges - have purported to exercise the jurisdiction of the court in granting divorce decrees and making related order. 
The two decisions I have mentioned have made it clear that many other similar orders are of questionable validity, and it is most desirable that the doubts that at present exist in relation to the rights of persons affected by such orders be removed. These rights are of vital importance to the individuals affected. They include, for example, the right of a wife to receive weekly payments of maintenance moneys, the right of a father to visit his children in the custody of their mother, and the right of a wife to a portion of the property held by her husband. The enfor ceability of such important rights as these plainly cannot be left in doubt. The present Bill will remove the doubts that have arisen by providing that the rights of such persons  aTe  to be the same as they would have been if the orders had been validly made - that is, made by a judge of the supreme court. 
The detailed operation of the Bill appears in an explanatory memorandum that I have circulated to honourable members. However, I shall outline the main features of the Bill. The main provision of the Bill is to be found in sub-clause (3) of clause 5. The effect of this provision will be that, in the case of an order that an officer of the court has purported to make in accordance with the long established practice to which I have referred, the rights, liabilities, obligations and status of all persons will, by force of the Act, be the same as if the purported order had been made by a judge. While it is by no means clear that orders made by Commissioners of the Supreme Court of South Australia would be held to be invalid, the opportunity has been taken to put the position of these orders beyond doubt. The Bill accordingly deals with these orders in the same way as it deals with orders made by officers of the courts. 
Where a purported order has already been the subject of a further order of a judge, by which it has been set aside or varied, the Act recognises that the subsequent order of the judge will be fully effective. In this connection I mention that the order which was held invalid in Kotsis v. Kotsis was subsequently replaced by an order made by a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. In the case of Knight v. Knight no order was actually made by a court officer, the matter having been raised for the High Court's consideration by way of a case stated by a judge of the Supreme Court of South Australia. 
In the result, the present Bill will in no way deprive any litigant of the fruits of his litigation. However, in the many cases to which the Bill will apply, it will provide for the rights of persons to be as it was intended that they should be when the purported orders were made, and will place the persons affected in the same position as they believed themselves to be in before the High Court decisions which I have mentioned. The absence of such provision would lead to an avoidance of responsibility and consequent hardship. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Leave granted for debate to proceed forthwith. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Besides the committee to consider the implications of Moore v. Doyle, officers of my Department serve on a joint Commonwealth and New South Wales Committee on the new combined Commonwealth-State law courts building at present under construction in Sydney. In addition to being represented on these ad hoc committees, officers of my Department participate in the work of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. 
Report on Abortion and Homosexuality (Question No. 2975) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Ministerial statement on law reform for the Australian Capital Territory made to the House on 12th October 1971. 
It is not yet possible to provide an answer to this part of the question. 
No, the work on the draft criminal codeis at such an advanced stage that it would be inappropriate to refer the draft to the Commission. 
 The Attorneyerai has supplied the following answer  to  the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
This question should be addressed to the appropriate State authorities. 
We have heard tonight what 1 venture to suggest was a very fine statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  of his recent visit to the United States and Great Britain and of its importance to Australia. Nothing we have heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam"* detracts from the importance to our country of that visit. He has not really criticised the Prime Minister's achievements on this visit. Rather he has permitted us to travel with him around the inside of his mind and his thoughts on world affairs which we have heard so often in this House and with which so few of us agree. But of course he had to add, again as usual, the somewhat clever, slightly dishonest and totally malicious personal criticisms of the Prime Minister. I will come to that later in my speech. 

 Mr Speaker, in the 15 minutes available to me I want to say something of ANZUS and also something of Britain's proposed entry into the European Common Market. It is, of course, true that ANZUS, when it was signed, was related to the situation which arose after the signing of the Japanese Peace Treaty, but it is also true to say that in the circumstances which exist today it has a new relevance and it is of continuing importance for all the ANZUS partners. Constantly now we see certain sections of the Australian community tending to downgrade it, tending to criticise it and tending to challenge its relevance to modern affairs. 
Europe, formerly the cockpit of world wars on this globe of ours, shows increasing stability and security with the prospects  of  the Berlin Agreement and the entry of Great Britain into the European Community. It is true also that the Middle East and the Indian sub-continent are the current and immediate trouble spots. But it is the Asian-Pacific region which has emerged as the area where the interests and influence of the great powers - the United States of America, Soviet Russia, the People's Republic of China and Japan - have converged. Only time will tell of the extent to which these interests and influences may conflict, lt is the area where the great issues of peace or war in the world may in the future be determined. After the last World War the hopes of mankind for peace were vested in the United Nations. It is still the repository of the finest hopes and aspirations of mankind. But even its most ardent supporters must agree that as a peacekeeping organisation it has so far failed, and this not through any fault in the United Nations but because it reflects simply the attitudes, the strengths and weaknesses of its members. 
Australia, finding itself a middle power in this volatile area, has developed 2 strong lines of policy. The first, which goes right to the heart of our ultimate survival should trouble on a large scale arise, is the maintenance of a close co-operation with the United States and New Zealand. The ANZUS Treaty is more important and significant for Australia today than when it was signed. It not only contains mutual guarantees which go as close as countries with federal constitutions such as our own and America can go towards positive commitment, but, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, it furnishes the framework of continuous co-operation and exchange of military information directed to mutual security and defence. It is not simply an agreement under which we have rights; it is an agreement under which we have obligations. The present Australian Government looking towards Australia's long term interests has been prompt to meet these obligations whether it be with co-operation on the signal station at North West Cape or me , space research installation at Pine Gap. The decision to follow this line of policy is an independent decision taken in the vital interests of Australia. Indeed, at the present time we believe it will continue to be the only safe and responsible policy. 
The second strong line of policy has been that of close co-operation with our neighbours, directed to securing their rapid economic advancement and their selfsufficient security. We have close ties with our nearest neighbour, Indonesia. We have committed practical aid to the extent of S54m over 3 years towards helping that country and have been instrumental in influencing other countries to help it. We have recently signed a 5-power agreement with the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Malaysia and Singapore under which we have Australian Army, Navy and Air Force units stationed to our north. This demonstrates our practical concern and our willingness as friendly neighbours to play our part in securing the safely and stability of this region in which we live. 
What is the Opposition's policy on these matters? First, as to ANZUS, there was a strong move at the recent Launceston Conference of the Australian Labor Party to end the ANZUS Treaty and to adopt a policy of non-alignment. This, of course, is the work of the left wing of the Labor Party with its strong anti-American sentiment. According to newspaper reports of that Conference it was only after the Lender of the Opposition, in referring to electoral prospects, said, according to a newspaper report, 'lt would put an intolerable burden on me if we change this after 20 years', that a compromise formula was reached. Under this compromise the Labor Party deleted references to 'the crucial importance5 of the American alliance and substituted the following: That the Australian Labor Party 'seeks close and continuing co-operation with the United States and New Zealand to make the ANZUS Treaty an instrument for justice and peace, social and economic advancement in the Pacific'. Nol only did this completely downgrade ANZUS but it substituted a form of words which do not fit into ANZUS; they seek to make it rather a vague convention on human rights. The explanation of this is quite clear when we realise the history of it. The Launceston Conference of the Australian Labor Party was held in June. In the 'Australian Left Review* of May 1971 at page 10 appears a record of an interview with the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in which the following exchange occurs: 
Question: What prospects are there for the ALP left wing to win the leadership of the ALP federally, and what policy differences do you think would be likely to eventuate if this occurred? 
Cairns: The ALP left wing has a very good chance of winning Federal Conference and Executive leadership of the ALP. Among the changes in policy this would bring are:  (1)  An end to the principle that the US alliance is crucial, and  a  beginning of support for the 'human rights' revolution around the world most often expressed in the national liberation movements. 
By this wording ANZUS is to be twisted lo become a human rights national liberation convention. It is clear that the change in the ALP policy on ANZUS represents a victory for the left wing of Labor and that in any Labor government its voice on this matter would be decisive. ANZUS in any real sense would be dead. 1 believe it is important for the people of Australia to understand the significance of this fact, lt is important for the people of Australia to realise, the achievement of the Prime Minister in securing in modern conditions the unequivocal and resounding re-affirmation which he did secure on his recent visit. 
As to the policy on regional security, the Australian Labor Party would unilaterally withdraw our troops from Malaysia and Singapore, would abolish national service thereby reducing our Army to two-thirds of its present size and would regard the limit of our territorial sea as the limit of action of our armed forces unless they went outside that limit at the request of the United Nations. This policy would of course irreparably damage our relationship with our neighbours and inevitably destroy their confidence in our will or ability to play any effective role in our regional security. 
As to the entry of Great Britain into the European Economic Community, the visit of the Prime Minister at this time was of great importance to Australia. As the Prime Minister said, we will maintain our close contact through diplomatic relations and in other ways with other members of the EEC and will be strengthening our representation in Brussels. We have, I may add, extremely able representatives in the capitals of the EEC countries. But it was important at this time for a renewal and re-affirmation of our close contacts with Great Britain. Of course, Great Britain still remains our close and trusted ally and friend. What the Prime Minister achieved in London also was a successful achievement on his trip. 1 mentioned that a number of criticisms were made by the Leader of the Opposition. Firstly, the honourable gentleman criticised the answer given today by the Prime Minister regarding the question asked of him at a Press interview shortly before his departure on his trip by a  Mr Matthews. 
The Leader of the Opposition suggests that what  Mr Matthews  now says as to the context or as to the wording cf his question differs from th; transcript and that what the Prime Minister now says differs from the transcript. 1 think it would toe more honest and fair of the Leader of the Opposition if he read the transcript, lt is necessary, as the Prime Minister emphasised, to read the questions and answers because what the Prime Minister said today was entirely consistent with t .ose questions and answers. The Leader of the Opposition also in a rather unnecessary aside gave an implied criticism of our Ambassador in Washington, describing this post as a kind of post office and spoke of there being a failure to tell us of Congressional opinion. I want to put this matter in perspective. The Ambassador in Washington is an extremely able professional diplomat, one of the ablest not only in our service but I would say in most of the services that 1 have seen as I have moved around the world. He is in close contact with members of Congress and does keep the Government informed and, indeed, takes the trouble when Ministers visit Washington of introducing them to some of the members of Congress wilh whom he has close contact. I think it is an extremely unworthy reference that was made by the Leader of the Opposition. In addition to that the honourable gentleman says quite falsely - I think what he said should be corrected at this time, although one allows him to say these things from time to time- 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
There are 27 members of the Preparatory Committee drawn from the total membership of the United Nations. Australia is not a member of the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment because it was nol elected to membership. We exercised considerable effort in seeking membership of the Committee, which was comprised according to the electoral distribution pattern of the Economic and Social Council, under which Australia must share representation with a number of other countries. Australia strongly urged that this pattern was not suitable for a committee on environmental questions if it did not ensure that important geographical areas of the world were adequately represented. 
The third session of the Preparatory Committee was held at New York during September 1971 and Australia was represented in an observer capacity by Professor Webster, Scientific Counsellor at the Australian Embassy, Washington, and an officer from the Australian Mission to the United Nations, lt must be noted that, since an. important part of the work of the Preparatory Committee itself is concerned with questions of international conference procedures, it is desirable al':o to have an observer present who is versed in these questions. Australia is a member of 4 working groups (on marine pollution, soils, conservation and monitoring), which ure preparing material and formulating proposals for the Stockholm Conference. On each of them the Australian representative has been a technical expert. 
The Department of the Environment, Aborigines mid the Arts is co-ordinating preparation 13r Australia's participation in the Stockholm Conference. 
Australia nas submitted a national report on the environment. In addition, 14 proposals for case studies to illustrate particular opics to be discussed at Stockholm were submitted to the Conference Secretariat. Tha Secretariat has selected a limited number of case studies from various countries for special treatment. At the invitation of the Conference Secretariat, a case study on the development of new towns has been prepared for possible inclusion in the official conference documents. Australia is also participating through its technical specialists in the work of the  4  lnter-governmental Working Groups referred to in (2). In addition, we have sent observers to the lnter-governmental Working Group on the Declaration on the Environment as - well as the 
Preparatory Committee of the Conference. As soon as action proposals to be considered at Stockholm have been completed and circulated by the United Nations Conference Secretariat, discussions with the appropriate agencies, particularly the States, will be held to enable the brief for Australia's delegation to be prepared. 
Its composition has not yet been determined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)The Australian Government has not made any contributions to the United Nations Trust Fund for South Africa, though contributions have been raised in Australia by private organisations. 
The following, from a United Nations document, is a list of contributions the Trust Fund has received from Governments since it was set up in 1965. (The contributions are in United States dollars): 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
No. 
See answer to (3). 
We have been familiar with the general progress of events leading up to the declaration about the Strait of Malacca, but it would not be correct to say that we were specifically notified of the actual declaration in advance of it being made. The strait is 8 miles wide at its narrowest point and 35 miles wide at its broadest point. In particular, oil tankers going to Japan from the Persian Gulf have been passing through the strait. There has been an attempt to have an international regime operating. Japan has been particularly interested in the question of dredging to improve the facilities so. that the strait can take 200,000-tonners. or similar vessels, and in improving navigational aids and so on. 
There had been some suggestion for a body on which. nations other than those with their coasts alongside this strait would be represented. In view of these developments, of those nations which border on the strait - Malaysia and Indonesia which claim a 12 mile territorial sea and Singapore, which has noted the declaration, and claims a 3 mile territorial sea - Malaysia and Indonesia decided to claim that the strait was within their territorial limits, certainly at the 8 miles point. It is not quite clear in the declaration how far it extends. But they recognise that there is the right of innocent passage which would normally apply in territorial waters. This is a matter which would normally come up for consideration during the discussions in the Conference on the International Law of the Sea and  I  think it still may do so. Our own people are studying the matter both in my own Department and in the Attorney-General's Department. We have not ourselves given any public reaction to this declaration. 
Could the honourable member indicate the areas? 
As far as the gulfs are concerned, if we take the Gulf of Carpentaria, at its narrowest point it is 370 miles across. It presents a different question entirely. As far as the reef is concerned, it runs for 1,200 miles and goes out, as honourable members will know, over 100 miles going down towards Swain Reefs. Different questions entirely arise in this regard. The same applies to the continental shelf. We have been very active participants in the preparatory committee which has completed its deliberations. This is the first set of deliberations and there will be further committees. Wc have received a report from our own participants in this committee dealing with the questions which would bear on our claims and which would include the kind of matters which the Leader of the Opposition has raised. We have not ourselves taken any unilateral action and I do not see any prospect of our doing that in relation to the particular matters that he has raised but they will be taken into account in considering our position in the International Conference. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Preliminary estimates of the proposed expenditure are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the Treaty entered into force on 5th March 1970, the following countries adhered to it in one or more of the depositary capitals (London, Washington and Moscow) on the dates indicated: 1971 that it considered itself to ' be bound by virtue of the signature of the United Kingdom, which ratified the Treaty on 27th November 1968.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The answer to question No. 1510 in the Senate ' on 4th November 1971 (Hansard, page 1676) is also relevant to this question. 
Canada and Japan. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The following countries at present have embassies in Taipei: 
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Gabon, Guatemala, Japan, Jordan, Republic of Korea, Malagasy Republic, Panama, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Thailand, U.S.A., Uruguay, Venezuela, Republic of Viet Nam, Republic of Zaire (formerly Congo (Kinshasa)). 
The following countries have embassies to the Republic of China which are not resident in Taipei: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Not at this time. 
The Australian Government ha.i exercised and will continue to exercise, its influence in what- ever way it can to reduce tension in the Indian sub-continent. 
Australia does not recognise the so-called Government of Bangla Desh'. 
It is not for the Australian Government to comment on the extent of control exercised by the Government of another State in any part of its territory. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Hobart, 28th and 29tb October 1971. 
See the answer to Question No. 3617. 
See the answer to Question No. 2466. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which is for an Act to replace the Trade Practices Act 1965-1971, was foreshadowed in a statement the Attorney General  (Senator Greenwood)  made to the 
Parliament on 7th September 1971 following the decision of the High Court of Australia in the case of Strickland v. Rocla Concrete Pipes Limited and others - commonly referred to as the concrete pipes ca-e. The purpose of the Bill is to overcome the constitutional defects that were found to exist in the Trade Practices Act in that case. 
In his statement of 7th September the Attorney-General pointed out that the High Court had held that, due to the way in which the Trade Practices Act sought to use al! the constitutional powers believed to be available to sustain the legislation, it was open to legal objection. The AttorneyGeneral ako pointed out that the High Court had made il clear that the corporations power in section 51 (xx) of the Constitution could be used to support legislation dealing with the restrictive trade practices of corporations and that the Government had accordingly decided that the immediate remedial legislation should be founded on that power alone. 
Although certain provisions of the Trade Practices Act dealing with resale price maintenance were subsequently declared to bc valid by the Commonwealth Industrial Court there are substantial parts of the Act which have been rendered wholly inoperative by the High Court's decision. Proceedings which were on foot with respect to pharmaceutical wholesalers have not been able to be continued. The legislative requirements and powers of the Commissioner of Trade Practices with respect to examinable agreements and examinable practices and the provisions relating to collusive bidding and collusive tendering have not been able to be enforced or exercised. lt is clear from the High Court's decision that there are large gaps in the effective operation of the Act. In these circumstances the present Bill has been introduced as a matter of immediate need in order to remedy the defects in the legislation. It is an interim, or holding measure, pending the introduction at the earliest possible opportunity of strengthening legislation. 1 have more to say about this strengthening legislation later. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like to stress the holding character of this Bill. Certain amendments to the Bill which tire quite incompatible with this holding char acter were made to it in another place. These amendments relate to monopolisation, predatory price cutting and discriminatory dealing. The amendments relating to predatory pricing and monopolisation are contained in clauses 35 and 36. Insofar as discriminatory dealing is concerned, sub-clause (l.)(a) of clause 38 has been amended, as appears from the explanatory memorandum, and sub-clause (l.)(b) of that clause is new. As I have already indicated, however, (he Government is currently reviewing this legislation with a view to strenghening it. The task is both an important and a complex one. The subject matter of the amendments will be considered in that review. But,  Sir, the  ill-considered changes introduced into the holding Bill could have unintended and damaging effects and should be avoided. The amendments that were made in the other place are plainly ill-considered. They would give rise to many uncertainties. Businesses would be left in doubt as to whether proposed courses of action would constitute criminal offences. The new offences of monopolisation and predatory pricing would render the existing examinable practice of monopolisation unworkable and the net result would be that far from strengthening the other provisions of the Bill the amendments would weaken it. The Government cannot accept these amendments. I shall be moving for their deletion at a later stage and 1 propo.se to disregard them in the rest of this speech. 
The task of remedying the defects in the Trade Practices Act by way of amendment of the existing provisions would have been a complex and unsatisfactory one, that is, if we left the existing Act, so far as it remains in existence, and tried to add amendments to it. The Bill accordingly provides for the repeal of the existing Act, and for the re-enactment of provisions that are similar except that, apart from the shipping provisions, they are founded on the corporations power alone. The shipping provisions remain founded on the overseas and inter-State trade and commerce power but the other provisions of the Bill do not draw upon that power nor upon other powers such as the power with respect to the Commonwealth's Territories. This has been done in order to avoid problems of the kind disclosed by the High Court and, by facilitating the drafting, to avoid undesirable delay in the introduction of the Bill. The relationship of the Bill to the corporations power is provided for in a number of the operative provisions of the Bill such as those defining the agreements and practices that it covers. As the Attorney-General indicated in his statement on 7th September 1971, the Government is satisfied that legislation thus based entirely on the corporations power will cover the vast majority of significant restrictive practices that could be covered by Commonwealth legislation if reliance were placed on all available powers. 
The Bill does not make provision for complementary State legislation, nor does it draw upon the reference of power from Tasmania. The task of including provisions with respect to these matters would have been a complex and time-consuming one and it would have delayed the introduction of the Bill. Such provisions have accordingly been deferred for consideration in connection with the subsequent strengthening legislation. I turn now to the provisions of the Bill. Apart from minor drafting changes and some transitional provisions, and some changes concerning the manner of fixing the remuneration and certain related matters for the statutory office holders, the provisions of the Bill differ from the existing Act only to the extent that is necessary to remedy the constitutional defects. I shall refer to some of the more important of the differences. Further details are set out in the explanatory memorandum I have circulated to honourable members. The examinable agreements and the practices covered by the Bill have been re-defined so as to relate them in each case to the corporations power. I shall not take the time of the House to explain the details of these changes. They are indicated in the explanatory memorandum. The general approach, however, is to confine examinable agreements to agreements under which restrictions arc accepted by corporations and to confine the practices to those practices which are either engaged in by or affect corporations. Similarly the provisions relating to the offences of collusive tendering and collusive bidding have been confined so that they apply only to tendering and bidding by corporations. 
Part XV contains a number of transitional provisions, which will give continuing effect to certain steps that have been taken under the existing Trade Practices Act. It would be pointless to require that these steps be taken again under the new provisions. It is provided, for example, that the persons presently holding offices under the Trade Practices Act should continue in the corresponding offices under the new provisions. This will apply to the members of the Trade Practices Tribunal, the Commissioner of Trade Practices, the Registrar of the Tribunal and the  Clerk  of Shipping Agreements. As a great number of agreements registered under the existing Act will be subject to registration under the new provisions, it is provided that the parties to these agreements need not again furnish particulars that they have furnished for the purposes of the existing Act. The agreements in question are deemed to have been registered under the new provisions, and they are to be incorporated with and to form part of the register kept under the new provisions. 
The Commissioner of Trade Practices has of course received from persons and is currently holding much information which it is plainly desirable that he should be able to retain. The Bill accordingly authorises the Commissioner to retain documents he has obtained from other persons so long as the documents can be related to a relevant head of constitutional power. The Bill also ensures that the new secrecy provisions apply to documents and information that the Commissioner has obtained under the existing Trade Practices. This means that the Commissioner and his staff will be forbidden from disclosing documents and information of this kind except in the narrow circumstances in which the secrecy provisions permit disclosure. 
Another group of transitional provisions deals with the various proceedings that have been conducted or are presently on foot in the Trade Practices Tribunal. The first of these proceedings was between the Commissioner of Trade Practices and Tasmanian Breweries Pty Ltd. These proceedings were ended when the company gave to the Tribunal an undertaking to cease engaging in certain conduct. In the second proceedings - relating to frozen vegetables - the Tribunal recently determined, after a lengthy hearing, that certain agreements were contrary to the public interest, and it made a consequential restraining order. The Bill will ensure that the undertaking, the determination and the order have continuing effect. Two other proceedings are at present pending in the Trade Practices Tribunal. The first of these was instituted by the Commissioner of Trade Practices in May this year against certain wholesalers of pharmaceutical products, ft concerns an alleged examinable agreement. The other proceedings concern an application that has been made by a publishing company for the exemption of books under the resale price maintenance provisions. In both cases preliminary conferences have been held before the Tribunal and steps have been taken towards a full hearing. In order to avoid the need for these cases to be instituted anew, and for the preliminary steps to be taken again, the Bill provides for these cases to be regarded as if they had been instituted under the new provisions. 
The Bill contains somewhat similar provisions in relation to overseas cargo shipping. Under the existing Act notices have been served by the Minister for Trade and Industry on a number of shipowners requiring them to appoint agents resident in Australia, and to have an address for service in Australia. The BUI provides for these notices and the agents appointed and addresses notified to the Minister in response to them to be deemed to have been served, appointed and notified under the new provisions. There is a similar provision with respect to notices served by the Minister on shipowners requiring them to undertake to negotiate with shipper bodies in certain circumstances, and to undertakings given to the Minister in response to these notices. Conference agreements that have been furnished for filing under the existing Act will not need to be filed again. The secrecy provisions governing the  Clerk  of Shipping Agreements and his staff will apply to documents and information obtained by them under the existing Act. The agreements and practices of certain primary produce marketing bodies are exempt from the operation of the present Act by virtue of regulations made under section 106. These exemptions are continued by the present Bill but they may bc varied by further regulations. 
As 1 have made clear, the present Bill is a holding measure to deal as a matter of urgency with the immediate effects of the High Court's decision in the concrete pipes case. Apart from changes made necessary by that decision the provisions of the Bill are substantially the same as those in the existing Act. At this stage the Bill does not provide for the extension or strengthening of the existing provisions. The Government has, however, made it clear that it places great importance oh the need for effective restrictive trade practices legislation to help bring about a more competitive atmosphere in the economy. I remind honourable members that in January of this year the former Prime Minister expressed the view of the Government that increased internal competition would help the economy, In April the Government introduced legislation, to outlaw resale price maintenance. On 17th August the Prime Minister informed the Parliament that the Government was reviewing the Trade Practices Act in order to Strengthen it and to encourage much more vigorous competition. In the AttorneyGeneral's statement on 7th September 1971 he said that the Government was committed to strengthening the legislation and that it proposed to follow the present holding Bill with a further Bill the purpose of which will be to strengthen the legislation. The Attorney-General referred to the considerable amount of work and attention that was being given to this objective and, in particular, to the consideration being given to the matter by an interdepartmental committee. The Government has since received a report from that committee. The report covers a number of important and complex matters which deserve close consideration. The Government is proceeding to give these matters full and proper consideration. Honourable members may be assured that the Government is proceeding with this task as expeditiously as possible. The preparation of a Bill on such a complex and important matter may take some time, but the Government proposes that, as soon as it is in a position to do so, it will announce the nature of the changes that it has decided to make the legislation. 
The immediate and pressing need, however, is to restore lo the statute book restrictive trade practices legislation that is constitutionally sound. That is the purpose of this Bill. Earlier in this speech I referred to certain provisions which had been inserted by way of amendment in the other place and mentioned that I would be moving for their deletion at a later stage. Subject to this I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No instruments as such were drawn up by the Seventh Session of the Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation Assembly held in London in October 1971, but a number of resolutions were adopted. Apart from resolutions of a procedural nature, and some minor corrections to the International Convention on Load Lines, the main resolutions were on the following subjects: 
Two resolutions relating to the International 
Convention for Safety of Life at Sea 1960- 
traffic separation schemes for narrow and congested channels including Bass Strait; 
performance standards for radio direction systems; 
performance standards for echo sounding equipment; 
radio equipment used for search and rescue; 
fishing vessel stability and crew safety: 
fire safety requirements for tankers; 
safety requirements for unmanned engine rooms. 
Three resolutions relating to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil 1954 as amended in 1962 - 
protection of the. Great Barrier Reef by prohibiting discharge of oily mixtures within 50 miles of the easterly edge of the reef; 
reduction of marine pollution hazards by the limitation of tank size in tankers; and 
reduction of marine pollution hazards by the introduction of efficient oily water separators and oil content meters on ships. 
The answer to the honourable members questions are as follows: 
Two. 
and (3)  Mrs Wiratmo,  Justice of the Supreme Court of Indonesia.  Mrs Justice  Wiratmo visited Australia from 5th July to 26th July to exchange views with Australian jurists and officials, particularly about social welfare legislation, juvenile courts and systems of appointment to the judiciary. During her visit she participated in the Sixteenth Australian Legal Convention in Melbourne.  Mr Imron  Rosjadi,  Chairman  of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee of the Indonesian ' Parliament (DPR), and a Vice  Chairman  of the Nahdatul Ulama (Muslim Scholars) Party.  Mr Rosjadi  visited Australia from 19th September to 3rd October, to acquaint himself with the Australian parliamentary system, the organisation of Australian political parties and the trade union movement, and Australian views on international relations in SouthEast Asia. 
Investments in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines (Question No.  4139) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I am aware of the two decisions. 
The judgment and Order of the Full Court of be Supreme Court of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in die case of Era Taoro Land (Daera Guba and others v. The Administration of the Territory , of Papua and New Guinea) insofar as it reversed , an earlier judgment and order in favour of The Administration of the Territory , of Papua and New Guinea is presently the subject of an appeal to the High Court , of Australia. In the circumstances 1 consider that I should not answer the, question. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1)-(4) I have seen the issue of the periodical to which the question refers, and have noted with interest the context in which the statement referred to by the honourable member appears. The statement appears under the heading 'Areas to Watch' and is followed by sentences which point out that several test cases are in progress and warn that price maintenance practices, in particular, may be targets for action, particularly if the threat of inflation is sustained. Since the date of publication of the issue, 1st March 1971, legislation to control resale price maintenance has in fact been enacted and brought into operation. Two important cases have also been decided. I refer in this connection to the decision of the Trade Practices Tribunal that an agreement relating to frozen vegetables was contrary to the public interest and to the important decision of the High Court in the Concrete Pipes' case. A holding Bill to overcome the legal defects that the High Court held existed in the present Trade Practices Act has been introduced and the Government has announced that it is currently reviewing the legislation with a view to strengthening it as soon as possible. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The proceedings of the Standing Committee are confidential. However, I am at liberty to disclose that the following matters were considered at the meeting of the Committee on 4th and 5th February 1971: 
Fifth Interim Report of the Company Law Advisory Committee relating to the control of fund raising, share capital and debentures. 
Recommendation by the Company Law Advisory Committee that a Companies Commission be established. 
Proposal that a company incorporated in an Australian State or Territory he permitted to carry on business in any other State or Territory without the need to register as a foreign company. 
Report of the Faculty of Law at the Australian National University on theLaw of Domicile. 
Regulation of the provision of unsolicited goods and services. 
The present position of the matters mentioned in the answer given by the then Attorney-General on 30th October 1970 (other than matters appearing from that answerto have been completed or removed from the agenda) is shown in the list set out below. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Melbourne, 5th and 6th July 1971; Hobart, 28th and 29th October 1971. 
The proceedings of the Standing Committee are confidential. However, I am at liberty to disclose that the following matters were considered at the two meetings referred to in Part 1 of this answer: 
At Melbourne on 5th and 6th July 1971 - 
Regulation of the provision of unsolicited goods and services. 
Proposals by The Law Council of Australia that the Commonwealth and Stale Governments participate in a feasibility study of the possible use of computers as an aid to the administration of the law. 
Regulation of the establishment and use of  data banks. 
Interstate enforcement of .fines against com- . panics. 
Recognition of custody orders made in other countries, particularly New Zealand. 
Sixth Interim. Report of the Company Law Advisory Commitee relating to share hawking. 
Proposal by the New South Wales AttorneyGeneral that he ask the New South Wales Law Reform Commission to undertake a complete review of the fundamental principles of company law. 
Accounts and audit provisions of the companies legislation with particular reference to directors' responsibilities. 
Definition of an interest in shares in the amending companies legislation. 
Increase in fees payable under the companies legislation. 
Proposal that a company incorporated in an Australian State or Territory be permitted to carry on business in any other State or Territory without the need to register as a foreign company. 
Fifth Interim Report of the Company Law Advisory Committee relating to the control  of fund raising, share capital and debentures. 
At Hobart on 28th and 29lh October 1971- 
The practice of pyramid selling. 
The admission in evidence of information stored in computers in the ordinary course of business. 
Fifth Interim Report of the Company Law  Advisory Committee relating to the control of fund raising, share capital and debentures. 
The establishment of a body lo consider the need for legislation relating to unit trusts, mutual funds and syndications. 
Proposal that a company incorporated in an Australian Stale or Territory be permitted to carry on business in any other State or Territory without the need to register as a foreign company. 
See the answer to Question No. 2466. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have taken the honourable member's question to mean inaugurations of Heads of State attended by a representative of the Australian Government, involving an invitation to attend and,if necessary, special accreditation. In other instances, where other than national attendance is desired, it is normal practice for the Foreign Ministry of the country concerned to issue a general invitation to all accredited Heads of Mission. As this is part of The following are the inauguration ceremonies the normal diplomatic function, the records in my of Heads  of  State attended by an Australian Department would not necessarily indicate this. representative: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(b) and (c). The following table lists the countries where English is not in common usage for official purposes and in which the Department of Foreign Affairs has responsibility for one or more diplomatic or consular posts. 
Column 1 of the table indicates the number of Australia-based officers performing diplomatic, consular and administrative duties at diplomatic, and consular posts in the countries concerned. Column 2 indicates the number of officers who are able to communicate in one or more of the languages commonly used for official purposes in the country concerned. Column 3 indicates the number of officers at the post able to communicate in a language other than English. 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question  is  as  follows: 
The Government's policy, in providing aid for the refugees in Bengal, is to make the maximum effective use of the funds provided by supplying goods and commodities in accordance with priorities established by the Indian and United Nations authorities who are caring for the refugees. We concentrate on providing those priority items which are readily available from Australia. On 5th November 1971 the Indian Ministry of Rehabilitation listed the following priority requirements: woollen blanket!,, shelter materials, milk powder, medical supplies and sugar. The Government is sending a full load of blankets by RAAF HerCuk. in early December and we are also helping with the airlift of blankets collected through the Austcare appeal. We are also sending sugar and shelter materials. 
The Government is continuing its regular con.sultations with ihe Indian and United Nations authorities about the forms of aid most urgently required, and in discussions about foodstuffs has informed there of ohe availability of commodities from Austrafia, including high protein foods such as egg powder and other egg products. 
If the Indian and United Nations authorities decide thai egg products should be given priority over other forms of aid the cost of supply and shipping the aid will be a charge against the Government's ntd allocation  for  the refugees. 
Migration Agreements anil Discussions (Question No. 4691) 
 It is undoubtedly to be expected that fighting will increase the number of refugees, but in point of fact no figures are available on that aspect of the honourable member's question. The honourable member referred to fighting between India and Pakistan. I think it only fair to point out that although some conflict between units of the armies of India and Pakistan has been reported the great bulk of the fighting has been between Pakistani forces and the Mukti Bahini. As to the last part of the honourable member's question, he is well aware of the deep concern of the Government for the plight of the refugees and our policy of keeping the problem under continuing review whereby progressively we have increased our aid as the need grew and accordingly, as at my last announcement, the figure has now reached $5.5m. Our concern has been to get this aid on to the ground where the refugees needed it, and I think in this respect our aid has been exemplary compared with any other aid that has been given. Indeed, recently I had to announce that we were combining with private organisations in Australia and providing 3 charter aircraft from Qantas Airways Ltd to carry blankets which the private organisations have been able to provide so that the blankets could be given to the refugees in that area before the cold snap. I think the honourable member can be assured of our deep concern and our continuing watch on the situation. 
So far, the fighting which has taken place has not interfered with the aid which Australia is sending to the refugees who have moved from Pakistan into India. However, there has been some interruption to the aid of a humanitarian character which we were giving to people in need in East Pakistan. The port facilities and also the question of transport and the control which was to be exercised by United Nations Organisation officers operating on behalf of the SecretaryGeneral have been subject to difficulty and there has been interruption in that quarter. 
I move: 
Omit - '"Part IV. - Predatory Pricing and Monopolisation (.Sections 3S-36).' 
This amendment is consequential upon the vote which we have just taken, the result of which had the effect of taking Part IV out of the Act. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 37 (Agreements between competitors containing certain restrictions). 

 Mr CONNOR (Cunningham) .56) - I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following subclause: (6.) Every examinable agreement shall be deemed unlawful until the contrary is proved and shall not be put into operation until the Trade Practices Tribunal has declared that it is net contrary to the public interest.' 
The reason 'for moving this amendment is elementary. Here we have a remarkable dichotomy under an Act of Parliament. As I stressed earlier in the debate, the 1965 Act was an instrument of delay and frustration. This year as the result of a public outcry in respect of resale price maintenance the Government crumbled completely and accepted the principles that we had advocated some 6 years ago. These were that any examinable agreement should itself be illegal per se and that if a person thought that an agreement was a restrictive one and had then obeyed the precepts of the Act and registered it, automatically the onus would fall oh the person seeking to profit by the agreement to prove that it ought to be exempt. That being so, what answer in logic has the Government to our proposal? It has not any. We can expect that we will get nothing but insolence and complete silence on it.  Mr Chairman,  may we have a little quietness? 
 I think the honorable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  has misunderstood the position completely. What I am saying is that the amendment, in the form in which he proposes it, simply will not fit into the current Act and for that reason it is totally unaceptable. As to the other matters he referred to in such tendentious terms. I will simply say his facts were not correct when he dealt with the rate of progress and the achievements of the Commissioner. Without going into the details of the position, again I state that insofar as the Act is not operating in a way that is satisfactory, it is precisely this that is under consideration by the Government. 
The Attorney-General has received  a  report which he is considering. I do not want to cover the whole of that ground again. 
Question put: 
That (he amendment  (Mr Connor's)  be agreed to. 
 I move: 
That the clause be postponed. 
I do so because this clause will be affected by certain amendments which I shall move in relation to clauses 35 and 36. 
Clause postponed. 
Clauses 4 to 33  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 34 (Secrecy). 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is not the practice to table reports to Ministers by departmental officers. 

 Mr Justice Nimmo. 

 - Without going into detail on the various points made by those honourable members who have preceded me now in this debate, I think that  I  should deal with 3 matters which have been raised. Many speakers have referred to the first of these matters, which relates to the proposals which were prepared by  Sir Garfield  Barwick and stated to this House by the .Honourable Gordon Freeth in 1962. I think I should remind the House that these proposals were not put in the form of a draft Bill; they were put only in the form of generally stated proposals. But more than that, in laying them before the House on behalf of  Sir Garfield  Barwick  Mr Freeth  stated in the clearest terms that he was doing so in order to attract public debate, representations and constructive criticism on the proposals. A great number of representations were subsequently received. There was criticism and there was discussion. 
At the time when the actual drafting of the Bill came forward  Sir Garfield  Barwick was no longer the Attorney-General responsible for the matter.The AttorneyGeneral of the day had to consider all the representations which had been invited by  Sir Garfield  Barwick. We do not know for sure what  Sir Garfield  Barwick would have done, but certainly if he had kept the promise made in the statement he would have amended his proposals, because this is what he said he would do if representations were made. In fact, these proposals were amended, and they appeared as a Bill in 1965. At the time when this Bill was introduced it was stated that we would keep closely under review the operation of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. This has been done, and, as has been stated by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in another place, for the greater part of this year a committee has been carrying out a review of the provisions of the current Act with a view to suggesting amendments which would strengthen the Act. The Attorney-General has indicated that he was hoping to be able to make a statement this year. I know that he was aiming at being able to make one before the Parliament rose this month. Before I came into the chamber tonight I inquired to see whether it was likely that he would be able to keep to his timetable. He was. to some extent, doubtful although he now has a report in his hands. It is a matter requiring a good deal of consideration before he can put actual proposals of the Government before the Parliament, so it may be that it will be after the House has risen. However, the matter is well advanced and we propose that the existing Act, which was introduced in 1965 and which has been amended to some degree since, will be strengthened. 
I will not repeat what I said previously about this Bill except to say that it is a holding operation to ensure that during the parliamentary recess there will be in force some restrictive trade practices legislation, that the Commissioner has authority to act, and the authority to hold documents which are in his registry and the power to move forward with the consideration of cases and, indeed, the power to proceed with a couple of cases that are now to go before the tribunal. With the qualification I made when I moved the second reading - I foreshadowed that I would be moving amendments during the Committee stages - I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Parts). 
 I move: 
That the clauses be deleted. 
Clause 35 deals with what is called predatory pricing and was inserted in the Bill in the other place. It was not in the Bill as introduced by my colleague, the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in that place but was inserted during the course of debate. It is in a form which constitutes it a criminal offence to engage in persistent price cutting at a loss with a certain objective in mind. For a number of reasons 1 oppose this clause being placed in this holding Bill. In the first place, it reverts to a type of legislation constituting certain acts criminal offences. This does not appear anywhere else in the frame of the legislation and it does not sit very readily in the Bill in that form. It is a form of legislation creating a criminal offence which places members of the business community in a situation where, because of the vague nature of the proposed offence, which involves a subjective element they do not know whether they have committed an offence until a jury finally has brought in a verdict and they find that perhaps for some years, although they may have been advised to the contrary, they have been committing an offence. Therefore, from the business community's point of view, it is a type of clause which causes it considerable difficulty and confusion. 
This provision also creates difficulties from the enforcement point of view because a criminal offence has to be prosed beyond reasonable doubt and, in order to do this, it is necessary to reach a much higher standard of proof than would have been necessary in, say, a case before the tribunal under the existing Act. The offence would have to be proved beyond reasonable doubt in circumstances where all the information and ali the knowledge is in the possession of the accused and he cannot be required to incriminate himself. Indeed, this was one of the reasons why the Australian Industries Preservation Act, which used the technique of making offences which looked fierce but which in fact were difficult to enforce, was not more effective than it was during its years of- operation. It would be a retrograde step to move back to that way of dealing with this particular matter. 
Clause  36  deals with monopolisation and ) offer the same criticism because it uses the same device of making monopolisation a criminal offence. It defines monopolisation in a way which would make it extremely difficult to ascertain whether, if one was in business, one was committing ari offence. It even means acquiring power with the intention of preventing a person from entering or expanding a business, or using monopoly power in a manner that is unreasonable and detrimental to consumers of goods or services. There is involved an element of intention which must bc proved by a prosecutor. This again is difficult where all the information is in the hands of the accused. Yet, although it would be difficult to enforce, it would be extremely confusing to members of the business community who were seeking to know whether they were engaged in lawful conduct. 
In addition, it would go into a BUI, the whole structure of the administration of which, involving the Commissioner, his power to call for agreements to be registered relating to monopolisation and his power of administering the Act in relation to monopolisation as a practice would be aimed in a different direction. This provision does not sit properly in the Bill. lt would need a substantial and complex re-arrangement of the Act to make this particular provision sit with the Act. Therefore, at this stage, the Government opposes the insertion of these 2 clauses in the Bill. However, my colleague, the Attorney-General, has indicated to me that the 2 matters are under consideration. 1 am aware of the reasons why the Opposition has been concerned with these particular areas of business operations. The area dealt with by these clauses is an area of concern in our review and while I cannot say what it is, if anything, that the Government will be doing in this area, 1 can say that it is a matter which is under consideration. Without these clauses we will have a holding Bill which will enable the trade practices legislation to operate and which will allow the Commissioner to have authority while we are not sitting until such time as we can consider amendments in perspective in a new Act. 
The Government cannot accept this amendment. I should perhaps point out that the scheme of the Act as it stands at present in relation to examinable agreements with which this clause deals defines certain clauses of agreements which are made examinable. It requires them to be registered. It proceeds on the basis that some of these agreements may be against the public interest; others of them may not. Provision, therefore, is then made in the Act for the question whether an agreement is contrary to public interest to be determined in a proper fashion, that is, by the Commissioner. Should that not be satisfactory to the party, the party may go before the Tribunal. This amendment would make every examinable agreement unlawful. The words used are every examinable agreement shall be deemed unlawful'. It envisages that everything is against the public interest. Experience has shown that, in fact, this is not so. It is necessary to have this filtering procedure. Therefore, this amendment would cut across the principle of the present Act. It does not sit with it in its current form and it is not acceptable to the Government. 
There have been circulated in my name 2 amendments to clause 38.I ask for leave for these to be taken together. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (1.) (a) after 'person' insert 'by any express or implied threat or promise'. 
Omit paragraph (b). 
The first of these amendments proposes to insert in sub-clause (l.)(a) of clause 38 some words which were deleted in the other place from the Bill that was introduced by my colleague the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood).  The effect of deleting those words was to widen the types of conduct which might be made an examinable practice such as inducing people to deal on certain terms in the buying and selling of goods. The insertion of the words by my amendment tends to keep this clause directed to the type of conduct which it was desired to treat as being, in probability, contrary to the public interest and therefore examinable. The second amendment seeks to delete from subclause (1.) of clause 38 paragraph (b) which was inserted in the other place. It provides for discriminatory dealing by a seller to be made an examinable practice. It does so in terms which arc unacceptable to the Government. 
If these amendments are accepted the Bill will retain as an examinable practice supply on discriminatory terms procured by a buyer who is exercising undue threats or promises in the nature of inducement but it will not deal with the case of a seller. It may be said that the paragraph (b) which has been inserted is a close cousin to the provision of the Robinson Patman Act in America which was inserted in 1936, and it is one which was considered fairly carefully at the time of the preparation of the original Bill. It will be considered again in this review. ButI should point out that in its present form, as it was inserted in the other place, it aims in the opposite direction to the Act. It prevents competition from taking place. It prevents bargaining over a very wide range. It prevents anyone from getting different terms from anyone else in a wide range of circumstances. One of the criticisms of the Robinson Patman Act has been that instead of facilitating competition it deadens competition. 1 think we should give very careful consideration to whether we should introduce such a paragraph as paragraph (b). At this stage, in relation to the holding Bill, the Government is opposed to it. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 39 to 41  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
 The Government is not prepared to accept these amendments. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  should appreciate, perhaps if not all then some of the reasons for having secrecy in a register in which the scheme is to require registration of all agreements of certain types before deciding whether or not they are against the public interest and where their registration is required upon the assumption that some will and some will not be against the public interest. In the case of those agreements required to be registered by private organisations and which are not against the public interest there seems at least a substantial argument against permitting strangers to consider their material and having ready access to it. It follows that if the Commissioner, who has complete access to it, with a competent staff comes' to the conclusion that it requires inquiry and forms an opinion that it is against the. public interest thenthese documents will be made public. 
The proceedings before the Tribunal are public. Those agreements which the Commissioner has looked at and which he concludes are contrary to the public interest will not longer maintain their secrecy. The others will. It is true that there has been a clogging up. The fact that the register has not been public probably accounts for the success of it in comparison with the success of registers, say, in the early period of the English legislation. People have been prepared under the protection of this Act to come forward and freely register their agreements knowing that a responsible officer will be the one to scrutinise them. It is only if they are against the public interest that they will come under public scrutiny. The whole Act is something which we have undertaken to review. We did this when we introduced the original Act and this provision, along with the others, will be considered and notice will be taken of such of the remarks of the honourable member as were relevant and not just directed to political abuse. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by this question is not peculiarly in the possession of the Government.It would take considerable time for my Department to undertake the work necessary to provide the information andthe employment of the Department's resources for this purpose would be at the expense of its other commitments.I do not think I would he justified in asking my Department to do this. 
The Attorney- 
General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Legislationto implement the Convention in the Australian Capital Territory will be part of a new Ordinance dealing generally with commercial arbitration in the Territory. The drafting of this Ordinance is in hand. Copies of the part of the draft Ordinance that deals with the Convention were sent to the State Attorneys-General on 5th July 1971 with a request for their comments on the draft and an indication as to when they would expect to be able to legislate for the implementation of the Convention in their respective Stales. 
-I think that before the Commonwealth conference of the Australian Labor Party in June of this year it might have been possible to find points of correspondence between Labor's  policy on the ANZUS Treaty and that of the Government. Since that conference there has been a great divergence in the 2 policies. The ANZUS Treaty is essentially a military treaty between Australia, New Zealand and the United States of America. In practice, close military co-operation exists continuously under it. We may regret the need for military arrangements. Some people may hope for the day when the United Nations will become an effective peace-keeping body. But the fact is that at the present time the United Nations is not an effective peacekeeping body and the Indian and Pacific Ocean area is emerging now, with the changing balances of power, as one of the danger areas for peace in the world. In these circumstances the Government regards the ANZUS Treaty as crucial. 
At the conference of the Australian Labor Party in June two things occurred. Firstly, the Party changed its policy by deleting the word 'crucial' so that it is clear that it no longer regards the ANZUS Treaty as crucial in respect of Australia's security. But further than that, the Party introduced words which indicated that it was going to seek to turn it into a kind of regional covenant for human rights. The Government is in favour of covenants and declarations of human right!! - Australia is a party to more than 10 of them - but what we would oppose is the twisting of the ANZUS Treaty into a regional covenant on human rights because this means that its military significance is to be removed. We would oppose the deletion or the downgrading of the military significance of ANZUS. Yet that has now become the policy of the Opposition. In these circumstances there is no bipartisan policy on this. There is a sharp divergence of opinion and I suggest that the current policy of the Opposition is one which is not in the best interests of the security of Australia. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, earlier this year the Government of Fiji inquired of the Australian Government whether an Australian judge could be made available to succeed the retiring Chief Justice of Fiji,  Sir Clifford  Hammett. When I visited Fiji last September I was able to convey to the Prime Minister of Fiji the Australia Government's agreement in principle to this request. It is with pleasure that in introducing the present Bill I am able to announce that  Mr Justice  John Angus Nimmo, a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, has agreed to accept appointment as Chief Justice of Fiji, and subject to the passing by the Parliament of Fiji of enabling legislation.  His  Honour will take up the appointment in the New Year. The appointment will be for 4 years. 

 Mr Justice Nimmo has had wide and distinguished judicial experience in Australia. In 1963 he served as an acting judge of the Supreme Court of Victoria. In 1964 he became a  deputy president  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In 1969 he was appointed to his present office as a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court. He holds, in addition, appointments as a judge of the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and he has served extensively in those jurisdictions. He has also, since 1966, been a  deputy president  of the Trade Practices Tribunal. 
I am sure that honourable members will welcome the opportunity that Australia has been afforded, through the initiative of the Government of Fiji, to co-operate with  a  Pacific neighbour with which Australia looks forward to having an increasingly close association. I am sure too that honourable members will be pleased that  Mr Justice  Nimmo has accepted the appointment.  His  judicial experience, his sense of public service and his well-known and respected human qualities ensure that he will carry out his new duties with skill, with dignity and with credit both to Fiji and to Australia. 
In 1964 the Commonwealth Parliament opened the way, by an amendment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, for a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court to accept appointment to a judicial office in any part of  Her  Majesty's dominions outside the Commonwealth of Australia. Section 103 a of the Act makes provision for that purpose. The section makes clear in sub-section (1) that the acceptance of such an appointment does not affect the appointee's office as a judge of the Court. In the present case, therefore,  Mr Justice  Nimmo will continue to hold office as a judge of the Industrial Court. 
Sub-section (2) goes on to provide that a judge who accepts such an appointment shall be remunerated only with the salary and annual allowance that he receives as a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, together with such travelling allowance as the Governor-General determines. The provision in this sub-section is appropriate to what I think was contemplated at the time - namely, the seconding of a judge of the Court for a relatively short period. The provision is not suitable to the particular case now under consideration, having regard to the high judicial office in question and to the fact that the appointment will be for a period of years. The Bill now before the House has therefore the short purpose of excluding the application of sub-section (2) of section 103a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in the case of  Mr Justice  Nimmo's appointment as Chief Justice of Fiji. I am sure that the House will cordially welcome the appointment that it has been my pleasure to announce. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Prior to the coming into operation of the Commonwealth Marriage Act on 1st September 1983, the Commonwealth took steps to have declared under section 26 of that Act 51 religious denominations established in Australia, the ministers of which had had authority under State laws to solemnise marriages. In accordance with (his action, on 24th May 1963, the GovernorGeneral declared by Proclamation the following religious bodies to be recognised denominations for the purposes of the Act - 
The Aborigines Inland Mission of Austrafia 
The Apostolic Church (Australia) 
The Apostolic Church of Queensland 
The Armenian Apostolic Church in Australia 
Assemblies of God in Australia 
Australian Christadelphian Ecclesia 
The Baptist Union of Australia 
Christian Brethren 
The Christian Church 
Christian Israelite Church 
Christian Revival Crusade 
Church of England in Australia 
The Church of Jesus Christ of l.atler-Day Saints 
Church of the Nazarene 
Churches of Christ in Australia 
Congregational Union of Australia 
The Evangelical Presbyterian Church of Australia 
Full Gospel Church (Gospel Light Ministry) 
Gospel Lighthouse Churches 
International Church of the Four Square Gospel (Australasia) 
Jehova's Witnesses 
Jewry 
The Liberal Catholic Church 
Lutheran - 
The Evangelical Lutheran Church of Australia, Incorporated 
German Evangelical Lutheran Church 
The Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church in Victoria 
The United Evangelical Lutheran Church in Australia 
The Methodist Church of Australasia 
The New Apostolic Church (Australia) 
The New Church in Australia 
Orthodox - 
Anlioch Orthodox Church 
Byelorussian Autocephalic Orthodox Church in Australia and Abroad 
Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia and New Zealand 
Macedonian Orthodox Autocephalous Church 
Macedonian-Bulgarian Eastern Orthodox Church 
Russian Orthodox Church (Abroad) in Exile, in Australia and New Zealand 
The Serbian Orthodox Church in Australia and New Zealand 
Ukrainian Aulocephalic Orthodox Church in Australia and New Zealand 
The Presbyterian Church of Australia 
Presbyterian Church of Eastern Australia 
The Reformed Churches of Australia 
The Reformed Presbyterian Church of Ireland 
The Religious Society  of  Friends 
The Reorganised Church of Jesus Christ  of  Latter-Day Saints 
Roman Catholic Church 
The Salvation Army 
Seventh-day Adventist Church 
The Strict and Particular Baptist Churches of Australia 
Unitarians 
The Welsh Calvinistic Methodist Connexion in Victoria 
The Wesleyan Methodist Church, Australia 
Since 1963 an additional 4 bodies have sought recognition. Two, the Free Serbian Orthodox Church, Diocese for Australia and New Zealand, and the Brethren, have been declared under section 26. The Church of Scientology has been refused recognition. The Autocephalic Greek Orthodox Church of America and Australia has sought to be declared, but has  ho  rar been refused recognition pending satisfaction with respect to its long-term stability. 
and (4) There havebeen extremely few cases in which the Attorney-General has heen requested to review a decision of the Registrar. However, the precise figures sought by the honourable member are nol readily available, andI am reluctant to authorise the time and expense which would be involved in obtaining them. If the honourable member wishes to have information in regard to a specific case thenI will endeavour to see if it can be provided. 
(a) Section 26 of the Marriage Act empowers the Governor-General to declare a religious body or a religious organisation to be a recognised denomination for the purposes of the Act. The power is a discretionary one and there is no provision for an appeal from a decision by the Governor-General nol to declare a particular body or organisation. 
There is no provision for an appeal frora a decision of lbc Attorney-General on a review, under section 34, of a refusal by a Registrar to register a person or a removal by a Registrar of a person's name from a register of ministers of religion kept pursuant to section 27 (4.) of the Act. 
Army: Acquisition of Property at Puckapunyal  (Question  No.  4703) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No precise answer has yet been given by the French Government to questions about the possible resumption of French nuclear weapon testing in1972. A French Government spokesman has said only that 'France was continuing its defence effort and was organising its experiments and the carrying out of the effort accordingly". 
The detailed action which the Government would take in the hypothetical event of a resumption of such testing would be determined in the light of all the circumstances at the time. 
So far as our direct aid to East Pakistan is concerned, this was being given through the United Nations - the Secretary-General having set up an organisation there - and we had a rice shipment which was due to go, but this was suspended at the request of the United Nations and the rice is still in store in Australia,  la  fact, the United Nations personnel in East Pakistan have been or are being evacuated. So far as the East Pakistani refugees in India are concerned, we did have a Royal Australian Air Force Hercules aircraft taking blankets to that country, ft had left Butterworth at the time when this trouble broke out. lt was unable to get a landing clearance at Calcutta and had to turn back. The blankets -ure at present at Butterworth and we are exploring alternative ways of getting them to the refugees where they are needed. We had a Qantas Airways Ltd aircraft due to leave yesterday carrying a further load of blankets. A landing clearance could not be obtained for this aircraft either so unfortunately it had to be cancelled. We have a further Qantas flight booked which will not be cancelled as we are exploring the possibility of taking in these blankets in some other way. 
Perhaps I should also inform the House that the 'Harima Maru', which was carrying rice for the Pakistani refugees in India. is just finishing unloading in Calcutta and we are hoping it will be able to sail tonight. As honourable members will know, there is another load on the 'Gerania' It is loading rice at Geelong at the present time, but it will have sugar and other cargo to pick up in Melbourne and Sydney. If things go according to plan it will be leaving about Christmas Eve and arriving in the early part of January. If it cannot get into Calcutta we may have to off-load at some other port and we will be exploring ways in which we can see that when our materials arrive they will get to their destination, that is, to the refugees. 
-I think that in an answer to an earlier question I have already in part answered what has been put by the honourable member. We are having difficulty in getting aircraft into Calcutta. We are exploring alternative ways of flying goods in and we will certainly look at the places which the honourable member has referred to. It will be a question of co-ordinating some road transport and ascertaining whether road vehicles are available. Concerning a gift of cash, I would remind the honourable member that in my last announcement I did mention a gift of $500,000 in cash to the 
United Nations focal point in India. Whether at this stage the Government should make a further gift of cash will be a matter which will be reviewed in the light of what is the desirable objective in getting our aid there. To some extent this will depend on our capacity to solve the physical problems, as it has been our experience so far that material aid, arranged in concert with the Indian Government, has been the best type of aid to get to the refugees. 
-I will be dealing with this matter in the statement which I hope to have leave to make to the House after question time. But perhaps I could say at this stage that I think that most Australians in East and West Pakistan have been accounted for. Of course, one can never be certain that there are not in East and West Pakistan other Australians who have not in any way notified their position at the present time. Arrangements have been made to get these people who have been accounted for out of the country. As far as India is concerned, there are more Australians, tourists particularly, in that country, but any danger to them is much less. However, the Australian High Commissioner in New Delhi is charged with the responsibility of warning these people and of making contact with them where it is desirable. I believe that adequate steps are being taken regarding Australians in India. 
by leave- The Australian Government deeply regrets that events in the Indian sub-continent have led to full-scale warfare between India and Pakistan. Developments during the past few days have increased the Government's concern. The latest reports indicte an" intensification of actual fighting, with large-scale engagements between Indian and Pakistani forces in both the eastern and western sectors. Formal relations between India and Pakistan have deteriorated further as a result of India's recognition of Bangla Desh as an independent state and Pakistan's subsequent action in breaking off diplomatic relations with India. In New York, efforts by the Security Council to reach an agreed conclusion have so far been unsuccessful. The immediate prospect, therefore, is for the continuation and further intensification of the present fighting. 
Since the beginning of the crisis in March this year, the Australian Government has made repeated efforts to try to influence the leaders of Pakistan and India in the direction of reaching a political settlement and to reduce tension. To this end, the Prime Minister has sent a number of messages to both the  President  of Pakistan and the Prime Minister of India. He was also able to discuss the situation personally with  Mrs Gandhi  during his visit to Washington. Throughout this period we have been in close consultation with other interested governments. We regret that our efforts have been unsuccessful but we will continue to do what we can. Our view is that the first requirement is an agreed ceasefire with a disengagement and withdrawal of opposing forces. This must be accom panied by a political settlement directed towards removing the underlying causes. of the conflict. 
Meanwhile, Australia's position, as a friend df both Pakistan and India, will continue to be that of a neutral. In accordance with established policy, we have not been supplying arms or warlike stores to either country. This will continue to be our policy. The continuance of humanitarian and economic aid to both countries will be maintained, although for the time being it will have to be subject to certain practical restrictions, including those imposed by security. 
A new element has been introduced into the situation as a result of the recognition yesterday by the Government of India of the Bangla Desh organisation as the Government of an independent state. The present position is that Australia recognises the Government of Pakistan as the legal government of both East and West Pakistan. The question of Australian recognition of a new state of Bangla Desh does not arise at this time. Australia is particularly disappointed that there has so" far been no fruitful outcome from the debates in the Security Council. It has been suggested that an attempt might be made to place the question before a special meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations. While we recognise the Assembly's limitations on taking positive action, we shall explore energetically any initiatives that may be made in the United Nations context to achieve some useful result. We remain in close touch with other governments concerned through our diplomatic missions abroad and particularly at this time through our permanent mission to the United Nations in New York. 
The Government has throughout the crisis been paying attention to the need to ensure the safety of Australian citizens in India and Pakistan. In East Pakistan, Australian citizens were advised to move out many months ago and most have done so. There are at present about 19 Australians there including the staff of the Office of the Deputy High Commissioner in Dacca. Australian citizens who are still there have remained by choice. In West Pakistan, Australian citizens were warned some days ago to move away from the border areas and were later informed that they would be well advised to consider leaving the country. On Sunday the High Commissioner reported to the Government his view that all Australian citizens in the Karachi area should be evacuated. Arrangements have been made for a Qantas plane to carry out this evacuation. Assurances of safe passage have been negotiated with both India and Pakistan. 
Certain arrangements have also been made for the evacuation of the wives and children of Australian staff in Pakistan. All dependants normally stationed in Islamabad have now been evacuated by road to Kabul in Afganistan, with the exception of 2 wives who are to follow shortly. The wives and children of Australianbased staff at the  Deputy  High Commission in Karachi are to be evacuated by the special Qantas flight, which I have already mentioned. In Dacca, the wife of the  Deputy  High Commissioner,  Mrs Allen,  has remained with her husband. All other dependants are in Australia. 
In India, where the possible dangers to Australian citizens from involvement in the fighting are much less than in Pakistan, our High Commissioner has advised Australians known to be living near to affected borders to move further inland. Other Australians living in India have been advised to avoid travel to areas which might be affected by military operations. The High Commissioner has also been in touch with tourists who have been temporarily stranded by interruptions to international flights, and has advised them to take travel opportunities to leave India as they offer. It is not considered necessary to evacuate any of our staff, staff dependants or other citizens from India in current circumstances. With both parties engaged in full-scale hostilities, and with the present alignment of forces and opinion in the Security Council, there are formidable obstacles in the way of bringing this conflict, to an end. The Australian Government will nevertheless continue to do all in its power towards bringing about a peaceful and lasting settlement. 
-I have seen reports and, of course, I have been getting official reports on this possible move by the General Assembly. Honourable members will, of course, understand that where there is a threat to international peace the matter comes within the jurisdiction of the Security Council. It is not strictly a matter over which the General Assembly has any effective control. There has, however, been a previous occasion when a resolution, known as the Uniting for Peace Resolution, was passed in the General Assembly at a time when the Security Council found that it was ineffectual where there was a threat to international peace. It is not a procedure which the Assembly generally follows. However, in this instance I understand there will be an initiative in the General Assembly. We have been consulting various other peace loving countries in connection with the matter. It depends, of course, on the form of the resolution. We will be taking an active part in supporting any resolution which looks as though it could be effective and not just completely abortive in the circumstances. It de pends very much on how this matter develops. If it is possible to do anything effective and develop a resolution which could be useful we will be behind it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The value of Australian aid to India and Pakistan in the last four financial years and budgeted for in 1971-72 is: 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report submitted to me by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Indian Ocean Region. The report represents the Committee's findings after an extensive and diligent investigation carried out by it over  a  period of 18 months, lt will help to clarify important issues and, while the Government does not necessarily agree with all of it, it makes a useful contribution to knowledge. 1 have pleasure, therefore, in making it available to the House and to the public. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Mr N.  St.  Bowen) proposed: 
That lbc House lake note of the  paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Proposals for the control of such mergers were made on behalf of  Sir Garfield  Barwick on 6th December 1962 (Hansard pages 3102-3113). In having the proposals put forward  Sir Garfield  Barwick made it clear that he was seeking the views of interested parties and of members of the public generally so us* to enable the Government to make its final decisions on the matter. In the light of the representations received the proposals were not proceeded with for the reasons stated on 19th' May 1965 by the then Attorney-General when introducing the Trade Practices Bill 196.1 (Hansard page 1656). 
Statistical information about such mergers is not available. 
en - The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The question whether there is a need for an additional magistrate in the Northern Territory is under consideration in my Department. 
The AttorneyGeneral have provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I am aware that statements of this kind were made. I have not seen a transcript of the evidence given by Detective Maskiell. 
No. 
Australian Capital Territory Laws: Consolidation (Question  No. 4677)  Mr Enderby  asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that a consolidation of the laws of the Australian Capital Territory has not been published since January I960. 
If so, how many ordinances that relate to the Australian Capital Territory have been enacted since that date. 
Can the Attorney-General say whether the delay in the publication of a consolidation results in wasted time, wasted work and increased legal costs. 
When will an up-to-date consolidation of the laws of the AustralianfCapital Territory ye published. 
en - The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The In*! bound general reprint of the Laws of the Australian Capital Territory was published as at 1st January I960. However, reprints in pamphlet form incorporating all amendments to the date of reprinting have been issued from time to time for most Ordinances and Regulations of the Territory in common use. Nine reprints have been published so far ,his year and the total number available is abou; 120. 
311 (to 30th June 1971). 
No. 
Any further general reprint of the Laws of the Australian Capital Territory is a matter for determination between the Minister for the Interior and the Attorney-General. 
Judiciary Act: Examination by Committee  (Question No.  4513) 
en - The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Judiciary Act Review Committee has met on the following dates since 18th September 1969- 24th March 1970, 18th May 1970, 23rd June 1970, 30th June 1970, 2nd September !970, 16th September 1970, 10th November 1970, 9th December 1970, 17 December 1970, 2nd February 1971, 19th February 1971, 11th March 1971, 30th September 1971, 10th November 1971. 
The matter is a complex, one. The Committee hopes, however, that its report will be ready by the end of 1972. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Society of Authors has proposed to the Government that a public lending right scheme be introduced in Australia. Schemes that are frequently referred to as public lending right schemes are in operation or under consideration in the countries mentioned in the honourable member's question. Since there are, however, significant differences between the schemes in operation in the countries mentioned, it cannot be said that the scheme proposed by the Australian Society of Authors is similar to the schemes in all of those countries. One of the alternative proposals put forward by the Australian Society of Authors is for the introduction of a scheme that bears a marked resemblance to the scheme in operation in Denmark. 
The Danish legislation gives an entitlement to authors who are Danish nationals to claim from a Government fund an annual payment based on the numbers of copies of books written by them held on the shelves of public lending libraries in Denmark. 
The Australian Society of Authors has made two alternative proposals. One alternative is for the amendment of the Copyright Act 1968 to give authors, as part of the copyright in their books, the right to authorize the lending of their books. The other alternative is for the establishment of a fund for the making of payments to Australian authors on a basis similar to that under which payments arc made in Denmark. 
An investigation of the proposal made by the Australian Society of Authors is being undertaken at present. The question of other possible systems of payment to authors would only arise in the event of a decision being made not to adopt one of the schemes proposed by the Australian Society of Authors. 
This part of the honourable member's question refers to matters falling within the ministerial responsibility of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. The Minister has been asked to supply the honourable member with a written answer to this part of the honourable member's question. 
Commonwealth Acts: Consolidation  (Question No. 4678)  Mr Enderby  asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a consolidation of Commonwealth Acts has not been published since 31st December 1950, nearly 21 years ago. 
If so, how many, Commonwealth statutes have been enacted since that date. 
Can the Attorney-General say whether the 21-year delay in the publication pf a consolidation results in wasted time, wasted work and increased legal costs. 
When will an up-to-date consolidation of Commonwealth Acts be published. 
If the problem is one that has been handedover to outside contractors or publishers and the neglect is theirs, will the Attorney-General take immediate steps to make other arrangements. 
en - The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: - 
The last bound general reprint of Commonwealth Acts was published as at 31st December 1950. Since then, however, reprints in pamphlet form incorporating all amendments to the date of reprinting have been issued from time to time for most Acts in common use. Twenty-eight reprints of Acts have been published so far this year and the total number available is about 170. If a complete set of reprints of Acts is maintained in alphabetical order, there is little occasion to refer to the 1901-1950 bound reprint. It is thought by some members of the legal profession that pamphlet reprints are more useful than complete reprints in the form of bound volumes, since the pamphlet reprints can more easily be kept uptodate than complete bound reprints, which necessarily can only be produced at intervals. 
2,218 (to 30th June 1971). 
No. 
On 9th November last, I gave the following answer to a similar question asked in the Senate: 
I have recently considered the question  whether a general reprint of Commonwealth Acts should be undertaken, and have determined thai work should be put in hand towards the production of such a reprint. 
The drafting and enactment of a Statute Law Revision Bill, which reduces considerably the overall size of a reprint by, repealing Acts and portions of Acts the operation of which is exhausted and makes necessary amendments of a non-contentious nature, is desirable before a general reprint is undertaken. Such a Bill is usually enacted towards the end of a year's sittings and becomes the last Act of the year, so that Acts passed earlier in the year can if necessary be dealt with in the Bill. An officer of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel is already engaged in the preparation of a Statute Law Revision Bill, but the drafting and settlement of such a Bill in consultation with the departments that administer Commonwealth Acts will necessarily take a substantial period.' 
The problem has not been so handed over. 
The  AttoroneyGeneral  has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. As was indicated in the answer in Hansard, 1 0th October 1968, page 1902. the question of the introduction of any such legislation is felt to be a matter for each Stale to decide. 
The  AttoroneyGeneral  has provided the following answer the honourable member's question: 
New South Wales 
On 1 3th November 1970, the Minors (Property and Contracts) Bill was assented to and on 4th June 1971 the Act was proclaimed to commence on 1st July 1971. 
The Act provides that persons who have attained the age of 18 years have full legal capacity and adult rights in relation to, among other things, matters of contract and property. 
A full list of matters in which persons over 18 are relieved of the disability of infancy is set out in s. 6(1) of the Act. 
South Australia 
On 8th April 1971, the 'Age of Majority (Reduction) Kill' was assented in and on 15th April 1971, the Act was. proclaimed to commence on that day. 
This Act provides that persons who have attained the age of 18 years shall be of full age and capacity except for certain specified matters including conditions, rights and obligations of employment. 
The Constitution Act Amendment Act (No.  2)  1970-1971, which is expressed to come into force on a date to be fixed, or at the latest on "HUh June 1972, reduces the voting age under State law lo 18 years. 
Western Australia 
The Mousing Advances (Contracts with Infants) Act 1968 enables minors in the age group 18-21 years to enter into valid and enforceable mortgages to secure repayment of housing loans made to them. 
The Electoral Act Amendment Act (No. 2) 1970 which came into force on Sth December 1970 reduced the voting age under State law to 18 years. 
Victoria 
The Properly Law (Loans to Minors) Act 1961, us amended, enables minors in the age group 18-21 years to enter into valid and enforceable mortgages to secure repayment of housing loans made to them. 
Queensland 
The Real Property Acts Amendment .Act 1963 enables minors in the age group 18-21 years to enter into valid and enforceable, mortgage"; to secure repayment of housing loans made to them. 
Future Legislation 
A Bill to reduce the age of majority from 21 years to 18 years of age was introduced in the Tasmanian House of Assembly on 25th November 1971. by the State Attorney-General. 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides thai upon the legislation coining into operation persons who have attained or who attain the age of 18 years shall bc deemed to attain full age and full capacity for the purposes of the laws of the State, except for certain specified matters including conditions, rights and obligations of employment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The United Nations Secretary-General has established in East Pakistan a United Nations East Pakistan Relief Operation (UNEPRO) to co-ordinate United Nations and other international emergency aid. The following organisations connected with the United Nations normally operate in East Pakistan: United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF); World Food Programme (WFP): World Health Organisation (WHO); Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO): United Nations Development Programme (UNDP): International Labour Organisation (ILO); United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the World Bank Group. Normal aid activities undertaken by these organisations have been temporarily halted. 
UNEPRO; UNICEF; WFP. 
The following food aid has been pledged: (i) through UNEPRO 
Australia: 4,780 tons rice- US$557,750 Japan: 3,650 tons rice - $US500,000 Federal Republic of Germany: 27,000  tons food  grains--$US3,000,000 
Netherlands: food grains and dairy  products- $US 1,500,000 
United States: 100,000 tons wheat and 75,000 tons rice- JUS32,625,000 
through UNICEF: 
United States: 35,000 tons of corn, soy, milk and wheat/soy blend - $US10,772,000 
through WFP: 
Canada: 80,000 tons wheat- 
$US7,000,000 
United States: 50,000 tons food  grains- $US7,700,000 
These supplies can be regarded as responses to the current emergency situation. The WFP has also completed plans for three food aid projects valued at $US3 million for quasi-emergency rehabilitation purposes. 
The  answer  to the  honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my statement to the House on 27th October, 1 referred lo the fact thai the question of providing relief for the refugees has been recognised as an international one and noted that the Government acknowledges its obligation to make a significant contribution to the international effort. 
The most recent information available to the Government Ls that the cost of refugee relief to the end of March 1972 is estimated to be $US700m. The Government of India has made budgetary provision for Rs2.6 billion ($US351m) up to the end of December 1971. The value of foreign assistance so far is estimated at $US235m of which $US187m has been pledged by governments and $US48m by non-governmental organisations. The Australian Government's pledges to the area total $A5.5m of which $4.5m is for the refugees in India. In addition, Australian volum try organisations have provided about $A2m for the refugees. 
The Government supports the attainment of a political settlement which would enable the refugees lo return to their homeland. 
The situation in East Pakistan is the primary responsibility of the Government of Pakistan. The Australian Government has been active, however, in confidential diplomatic exchanges directed towards reaching a political settlement 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government has exercised and will continue to exercise Its influence in whatever way it can to reduce tension in the Indian sob-continent. 
Australia's relief aid for East Pakistan is being provided through the United Nations in response to appeals by the Secretary-General on 16 June, 16 July and 13 August. Details of this humanitarian aid, amounting to $1 million and including a shipment of rice worth $485,000, were announced in the House by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs on 5 October. Australia's aid is intended to meet priority needs as assessed by the United Nations authorities who are arranging its distribution in consultation with local authorities. 
A food shortage has been expected in East Pakistan but has not yet delvoleped. According to the latest assessments a food shortage might be felt by next March. In the meantime, the Australian Government will of course keep the situation under constant review. 
(a) Sheikh Mujibur Rahman is understood to be under detention somewhere in West "Pakistan. The Australian Government has no information about his present state of health, (b) Sheikh Mujibur Rahman has been charged with 'waging war against Pakistan'. He is being tried in camera by a special military tribunal. On 21 August it was announced that  Mr Allahbux  Brohi, a Karachi lawyer, had agreed to act as counsel with full rights of defence. On 28 September the President's office announced that the trial had resumed on 7 September. There has been no announcement of completion of the trial, or of a verdict. 
Suitably qualified non-Europeans who are eligible for permanent residence in Australia are admitted without quota restriction. 
Under long-standing arrangements both Pakistan and India are being provided with one, place each at the 1972 course at the Australian Staff College at Queenscliff. Otherwise the Government has no 'commitment' to provide anything which could be described as 'military aid' during 1971-72 and it has no intention or doing so. 
No, apart from a place at Queenscliff as. mentioned above. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Both Australia and the People's Republic of China have diplomatic missions in the Arab Republic of Egypt, Austria, Burma, Ceylon, Canada, Chile, Denmark, France, India, Iran, Italy, Kenya, Laos, Netherlands, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, United Kingdom, USSR and Yugoslavia. 
Yes. 
It is not my intention to reveal the details of these confidential meetings. 
UNESCO Education Conference (Question No. 4474) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This matter is currently under consideration between the departments concerned and no decisions have yet been made. A definitive reply will be given as soon as possible. 
The answer to the houourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Australia offered rice to India on f.o.b. terms as provided under the Food Aid Convention for gifts of food aid. The Government also informed the United Nations authorities nf the offer. India asked the U.N.H.C.R. whether the High Commission could pay for the freight. The U.N.H.C.R. said that it would and the lice was then formally provided to India through the U.N.H.C.R. Australia is making a cash contribution to the U.N.H.C.R. of $500,000 which is more than sufficient to cover the freight costs on rice estimated at $140,000. Australia has paid the freight costs of all other supplies provided far the refugees. 
The following is the full text of a statement made by  Mr Ole  Volfing, Head of Fund-raising Activities of the U.N.H.C.R. on 24th October (forwarded to the Government by the U.N.H.CR. Representative for Australia and New Zealand):  I hereby wish to state that I have not, at any stage of my meetings with journalists during my visits to Australia or New Zealand, criticised the Australian Government for the  size  of its contribution or for the freight arrangements made in connection with their generous gift of $A1m worth of rice. On Thursday, October 21. the 'Australian Financial Review' quoted me incorrectly, including quoting me as having said that I am surprised Australia has asked the U.N.H.C.R. to pay the transport costs of the rice. 
On Thursday afternoon, October 21, when 1 arrived in Wellington' I was asked by the Wellington Correspondent of 'The Australian' if I would give a statement, in the light of the quotation in the 'Austraiian Financial Review' It was at that moment I learned the quotation in the 'Australian Financial Review' of the same day. I dictated a statement to the Welling ton Correspondent of the 'Australian' on one condition - namely, that it would be published in the 'Australian' in full and without any changes. If this could not be promised I had no comments as I did not want to be misquoted once more. The Wellington Correspondent promised that the statement would either be published in full or not published at all, based on which I then dictated my statement. 
I therefore deeply regret to see on passing through Sydney Airport today. Sunday. October 24, a copy of the 'Australian' of Friday, October 22, which does not publish my statement at all but Instead publishes quotations of something I have never said - such as the U.N.H.C.R. has to go to Sweden or some other country for the money. I wish to make it clear that it is the usual privilege of any government to decide if, how and under what conditions it wishes to contribute to the humanitarian programme of the United Nations and that I, as a United Nations civil servant, could not comment on or question the decision of the Australian Government in this respect. And I find it most unfortunate that Australian newspapers have misquoted me as part of their domestic disagreement with the Government." 
See answer to (1) above. 
The Government of India has estimated food and medical requirements for a refugee population of eight million for a period of 6 months as follows: 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Special Magistrates in South Australia who have been specially authorised by the GovernorGeneral lo exercise federal jurisdiction are practitioner* of the Supreme Court of South Australia. There are at present only 2 justices of the peace in South Australia authorised to exercise federal jurisdiction, the third having recently died. The justices are. or have been, Clerks of Court of the  Local  and District Criminal Courts Department and have wide experience in court matters. . 
The qualifications for appointment as a Stipendiary Magistrate in each State are as follows: 
In New South Wales, a person must be at least 35 years of age and must have passed the prescribed examinations, which  are  the sams as those required for  Admission as a  barrister or solicitor  of  the Supreme Court of New South Wales. 
In Victoria,  a  person must be at least 35 years of age and must be  a  barrister or solicitor of the Supreme Court who has been practising for  a  period of at least 5 years. A person who has passed the prescribed examinations and who is or has been  a  Clerk of Petty Sessions or Registrar of County Courts for  a  period of at least 10 years or who has passed the qualifying examination for appointment as Clerk of Petty Sessions or Registrar of County Courts may also be appointed as  a  Stipendieary Magistrate. 
In Queensland, any Justice may bc appointed  a  Stipendiary' Magistrate, but the Public Service Regulations require preference to be given to officers of the public service who have passed an examination qualifying them for admission as harristers or solicitors of the Supreme Court of Queensland or who have passed certain qualifying examinations for promotion to the position of Stipendiary Magistrate and Warden, and Clerk of Petty Sessions and - Mining Registrar, and who have had at least 5 years' experience in Petty Sessions or Wardens Court work or in the Chief Office of the Department of Justice or the Department of Development and Mines in that State. 
In South Australia, Stipendiary Magistrates are appointed from Special Magistrates on the recommendation of the Public Service Board and with the endorsement of the Chief Justice of that State. Special Magistrares in South Australia are all appointed from the practitioners of the Supreme Court of South Australia. 
In Western Australia, a person must have passed the prescribed examination in law or be a legal practitioner duly qualified under the Legal Practitioners Act of that State, or be  a  barrister or solicitor entitled to practice in any State or in the High Court of Justice in England or Northern Ireland. 
In Tasmania,  a  person must be  a  legal practitioner of tit least 5 years' standing. 
-I am aware of the difficulties of transport at this time in Bangla Desh. Although it is difficult to operate quickly to change this, I might mention to the honourable member that one of the approvals which I have given is for 46 4-wheel drive trucks to be sent over there as part of our aid, but this takes time. We have flown some aid over there and the honourable member will have seen the recent announcement that a very large mixed cargo is being sent as a special shipment and will be arriving in Bangla Desh next month. I will have my Department make inquiries into the availability and appropriateness of the items to which the honourable member has suggested we should look at. I stress that we rely very much upon the advice of our representative on the spot who is an extremely able man and who acts in concert with the authorities. They know where the need is and, particularly, what is most required and how it can best be got directly on to the ground. As I explained to the House before, that is the principle we followed earlier and we will continue to follow it. However, I will refer the new matters the honourable member has raised to the Department for consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
lt is diplomatic practice to assume that  a  member of a foreign mission who raises matters of official business with the Department of Foreign Affairs does so with proper authority. 
Orally. 
30th September 1971. 
Counsellor for Political Affairs. 
No. 
See 1 (e) above. 
On several occasions since mid-1970 Cambodian Ministers and senior Cambodian Service officers have stressed to Australian Ministers and officials Cambodia's critical training needs and have sought Austraiian assistance in training. For some months before the approach mentioned in question (1) the Australian Government had been considering alternative forms of training assistance. It was considered that, if Australian cooperation in existing United States training' programmes for Cambodian personnel in South Vietnam proved feasible and otherwise acceptable, this would be welcomed by Cambodia. This judgment has since been confirmed. 
Following the Government's decision in principle last month it has concluded detailed discussions on this proposal with the Republic of Vietnam as well as with the other countries concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Other governments sent the following representatives to attend the inauguration of  President  Thieu in 1971: The Republic of Korea (Prime Minister), Thailand  (Deputy Prime Minister),  the Philippines (Minister for Foreign Affairs), Malaysia (Minister of Lands and Mines). In addition, the Vice  President  of the United States of America, the  Chairman  of the Royal Council of the Kingdom of Laos, and the  Chairman  of the Joint Staff of the Republic of China attended as Special Representatives. Other countries were represented by Special Ambassadors. Other governments sent the following representatives to attend in 1971: Republic of Korea (Prime Minister, Laos  (Deputy Prime Minister),  Thailand (Acting Foreign Minister), the Khmer Republic (Acting Foreign Minister), and United States (Secretary of Treasury). In addition, the Vice  President  of the Republic of China, the Special Adviser to the King of Jordan, and the Adviser for Foreign Affairs to the  President  of the Philippines attended as Special Representatives. Other countries were represented by Special Ambassadors. 
The Australian Government has enjoyed a very close relationship with the Government of the Republic of Viet Nam, and Australian forces have fought side by side with Vietnamese forces for the defence of the Republic. It was therefore appropriate that, on the occasions of the inauguration of the  President,  the Government should be represented by a senior Cabinet Minister. In both cases the representative was the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 18th August 1971 the Prime Minister stated in the House of Representatives that the decision to commit troops . . . 'was made in the national interest pursuant to our obligations under the Manila Treaty and at the invitation of the Republic of Vietnam.' 
No. 
See answer to part (2). 
The signatories to the Manila Treaty are Australia, France, New Zealand. Pakistan, the Philippines, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United States. 
and (6) Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Thailand and the United States committed troops to the defence of South Vietnam. Australia's first military, contribution was a team of 30 Army advisers which arrived in June 1962. Additions were made from time to time of elements from all 3 services to a peak strength of a little over 8.000 men by 1967. The first reduction waa made when a battalion was withdrawn in December. 1970. In accordance with the Prime Minister's announcement of 18th August 1971. withdrawal of Australian Force Vietnam is now proceeding. 
New Zealand's first commitment of troops was in July 1965 when an artillery battery was sent, and subsequently 2 infantry companies were added in May and November of 1967. During the peak period, from April 1969 to April 1970, there were approximately 540 New Zealand troops in Vietnam. The New Zealand force is now being withdrawn. 
The Philippines' deployments to Vietnam began in 1966, when a civic action force and an engineer battalion totalling some 2,000 men arrived in South Vietnam. The force was withdrawn by December 1969. 
Thailand committed 6 transport aircraft to Vietnam in 1965 and followed with elements of the Black Panther Division. A peak force level of about 11,250 was reached in February 1969. Withdrawal of the force commenced in 1971 and is estimated to have reduced it 6,300. 
United States forces in Vietnam were increased progressively from 1962 and reached a peak of between 540,000 and 550,000 in early 1969. The force level is now under 200,000. lt is not possible to give figures for troops committed in the categories 'combatant' and non-combatant' since these terms are not precise and could well vary in meaning from country to country. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The provisions of what is now section 103 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1971 were included in the legislation by the Parliament in 1956 and have appeared in the legislation in that form ever since. Any further comment by me would require the expression of a legal opinion, and it would not be in accordance with the Standing Orders and the practice of the House for me to do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's attention is directed to the answers to Question No. 1509 in the Senate (Hansard, 28th October 1971, page 1552) and Question No. 4772 in the House of Representatives (Hansard 2nd December 1971, page 4123). 
Details of the most recent Australian official protest, on 20th April 1971, arc contained in the answer to Question No. 3e.73 in the House of Representatives (Mansard, 7t&lt;i September 1971, page S77). For details of previous protests the Honourable Member's attention is dire.' led to the answer to Question No. 493 in the Senate (Ilansard. ! 9th August 1970, page 64). Concerning the Government's plans for future protests, the Honourable Member's attention is directed to part (2) of the answers to Questions 1509 and 4772 referred lo above. 
The National Radiation Advisory Committee was appointed by the Government in 1957 lo provide guidance in any matter pertaining to the effects of ionising radiation in the Australian community. Details of the effects of ionising radiation on health arc contained in the Committee's report to the Prime Minister of November 1965. The Committee, having considered the data on the French nuclear tests, has a  J  vised trie Government in reports of November 1965, March 1967. December 1967, March 1969, and March 1971 that the fallout does not constitute a hazard to (he health of the Australian population. 
Extensive monitoring of fallout in Australia, including that resulting from French nuclear tests in the Pacific, has been carried out by the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee. The results of monitoring over the period 1966-71 (during which French nuclear tests occurred in the Pacific) are contained in 15 publications amongst those listed in the Appendix to Report AWTSC No. 1 published  In  February 1971 by the Defence Standards Laboratories. The results of measurements on fallout in Australia this year will be published when all the data has been analyst*). This data, however, is broadly similar to that obtained in 1970 and which the National Radiation Advisory Committee found to be of no significance as a hazard to the health of the Australian population. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Secretariat for the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment is drafting action proposals for discussion at Stockholm from the material that has been submitted to it, including National Reports, reports of five intergovernmental working groups, the United Nations Specialised Agencies and other intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations. Final drafts of action proposals have not yet been received. A great deal of data will therefore be available to the Conference on which the participating governments will be able to base their action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The honourable member is again referred to the answers given to his questions No. 984 of 21st May 1970 and No. 3422 of 19th August 1971, which adequately deal with the Government's attitude to public discussion on revision of the United Nations Charter. The honourable member may rest assured that the points raised in the article to which he refers, as well as the points he himself raised in question No. 3423 of 19th August 1971, will be among those taken into account when the subject is being considered in more detail. 
The answer, to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Language allowances are paid to officers who qualify at prescribed examinations. 
The following statement shows the number of officers in receipt of a language allowance in the count!ries mentioned at the present time: 
Honourable members will be aware of the facts as reported relating to the disappearance of  Mr Francis  James in November 1969 when he was moving from Canton towards the Hong Kong border. Since then the Australian Government has made many representations regarding  Mr Francis  James, including a series of representations made through the British Charge d'Affaires directly to the Chinese Government. Up to now the Australian Government has not been advised of the facts of the present position. It regrets this very much. We are concerned about the situation of this Australian citizen. However we hope that our representations will bear fruit and certainly we shall be continuing our inquiries and representations. 
-I think all honourable members will be aware of the deep concern felt by countries in this region about atmospheric nuclear tests in the region. I think the 1971 French tests ended in September 1971 with the statement that they had achieved the objectives sought. However, the tests were suspended after strong protests from countries in the region, including protests from Australia. I am not aware of any statement by the French Government that it proposes to resume nuclear tests in the Pacific in 1972, but there would be some concern about the statement which was made by the Chief of Staff of the French Armed Forces before the ending of the tests in 1971 that France proposed to conduct two or three explosions each year until 1976. Australia has taken a strong stand on this matter. We were co-sponsor at the last session of the United Nations General Assembly of a resolution condemning these tests and seeking the banning of all types of tests of nuclear weapons. Should the French Government announce in the future that it proposes to conduct tests this year, I assure the House that Australia will make very strong protests against such tests being carried out. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Lists are not available of countries which have performed acts of recognition as distinct from establishment of diplomatic relations with the German Democratic Republic. The following countries at present have diplomatic relations with the G.D.R.: Albania, Algeria, Arab Republic of Egypt, Bulgaria, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Czechoslovakia, Cuba, Equatorial Guinea, Guinea, Hungary, Iraq, Khmer Republic, Maldives, Mongolia, North Korea, North Vietnam, People's Republic of China, Poland, Romania, Somalia, South Yemen, Sudan, Syria, U.S.S.R., Yemen and Yugoslavia. 
Answers to questions on notice are not an appropriate place for expositions of Government policy. 
Australia has on a number of occasions in the past expressed its support for the reunification of Germany, based on the freely expressed will of the German people. The last such statement was made by the then Prime Minister, the Rt Hon. R. G. Menzies, on 17th July, 1956, when he visited the Federal Republic of Germany. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following are details of vessels registered from 1966 to 1970 under the Liberian flag but which are owned by foreign affiliates of United States companies incorporated under United States laws: 
-The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. 
No. 
I have considered all the circumstances of this case and donot propose to depart from the decision previously taken in this mailer. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member is contained in Appendix A of the Annual Report of the Commissioner of Police tabled on 27th October 1971. 
Commonwealth policemen are located at the centres indicated hereunder in Victoria; they have been provided for the purposes shown: 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to  (4)  The report of the interdepartmental committee will not be made available to Members. As the Prime Minister indicated in his answers to questions No. 3599 and 3600 (Hansard, 7th September 1971, page 888 and 889), it is not the policy of this Government to give information on matters which concern advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided me with the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
As at18th February 1972 the position was as follows: 
181 arrests involving 183 charges. 
78. 
(a) (i) 16. 
27. 
68 in 23 cases of which consent to prosecute was declined. 
33. 
12. 
23 May, 1972. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As at 18th February 1972 the position was as follows: 
49 arrests involving 62 charges. 
47. 
(a) (i) 10. 
3. 
25 in one case of which consent to prosecute was declined. 
14. 
None. 
22nd March 1972. 
I furnish the following reply: 
So far as the Subsidiary and Special Bodies of the UN are concerned the General Assembly vote is regarded as binding and the People's Republic of China can automatically take its place. The Special bodies concerned are: 
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). 
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). 
United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO). 
United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF). 
So far as the Specialised and Other Agencies are concerned the position as at the 21st January 1972 was as follows: 
International Labour Organisation (ILO) 
On 16th November 1971, the Governing Body voted to recognise the People's Republic of China as the Representative Government of China. 
Details of the voting were: 
In favour (36) 
Canada, France, Germany (Fed. Rep.), Italy, India, USSR, United Kingdom, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Indonesia, Kenya, Libya, Nigeria, Romania, Syria, Brazil (Employers Representative), Ghana (Employers), Sweden (Employers), Germany (Fed. Rep.) (Employers), Iran (Employers), UK (Employers), India (Employers), France (Employers), Mexico (Employers), USA (Employers), Germany (Workers Representative), Tunisia (Workers), Morocco (Workers), Belgium (Workers), Cameroon (Workers), Canada (Workers, USSR (Workers), Mexico (Workers), UK (Workers), Japan (Workers), Norway (Workers). 
 This is a shabby no confidence motion. It deals in trivialities and is wasting the time of the House. Our system in this Australian Parliament differs from that adopted in other Parliaments, such as the House of Commons, in having a set time every day for questions without notice. It is a system we all know under which every honourable member can ask a question and get an off the cuff answer. 
Yes. I think you understand the Australian language. A member can get an immediate answer without reference when he asks a question without notice. This is our system and I approve of it. It is not a system which is generally adopted in other Parliaments. It carries the advantage that a quick reply is given, but it also carries the inevitable consequence that the information given in the answer sometimes is less than comprehensive or less than accurate. 
Less than fully accurate, as far as information is concerned. All honourable members know that what I am saying is true, also while, of course, the questions are always elegantly phrased the answers, given immediately, are often not as elegantly phrased as would be answers given after full consideration. This is our system. I do not suppose any Minister who has stood at this dispatch box has not at some time or another read the Hansard record of an answer given by him on the previous day and thought to himself: 'If I had a second chance to give that answer I am certain I could improve on it.' 
Every honourable member knows that this is so. This is the way that human affairs go when we have this type of procedure. I would not want to see this procedure changed but we have to know what the consequences of it are and to understand them. I am sure we al) do understand it and this is why this is such a shabby motion. What has been done is that the Opposition has simply picked upon a few words here and there in an answer and has built on it a pack of cards that the slightest puff can blow down. It is just a pack of nonsense built on a few words in an answer. Let us look at these answers. Regarding the letter to South Africa, this matter is so trivial. As we have seen in the answer, it was the Prime Minister himself who called attention to the fact that when he was referring to a second letter months after he had communicated with the Prime Minister of South Africa - he called it a second letter thereby implying that there was a first letter - it was in fact a message sent by the Prime Minister to the Prime Minister of South Africa. The Prime Minister was the one who called attention to the error. How fantastic is it, therefore, to bring a motion of no confidence against a Prime Minister who has disclosed that he has made an error. One could not get a more ridiculous situation than this. 
Let us go to 24th February when the Prime Minister was asked a question relating to this ministerial visit to China. Referring to this proposal in the course of his reply he said: 
It did not come from the Government of the People's Republic, nor did it come from anyone with an official status in the Chinese Government. 
So one interpretation put on it which I have heard was that the Prime Minister said that the Chinese Government had stipulated a condition. Clearly the Prime Minister is excluding the People's Republic or anyone with an official status. But it is a non-official proposal. He said: 
But I can state that initially they thought it would be wise, providing the Minister gave up his portfolio, that he should be invited with his wife to go on what shall be called not so much a goodwill mission but a mission on which hs could enjoy himself and enjoy the comforts and delights of Peking. But he had to give up bis portfolio. 
If one stops there one can say that they, the unofficial sources, are putting a proposal and a condition on it. Looking at it another way, one can say that the proviso is a kind of parenthesis, giving the Prime Minister's own thoughts, but I do not see any advantage in going into an analysis this way and that and trying to find interpretations since the Prime Minister subsequently made perfectly clear what he meant. So if anyone was to be misled, as some honourable members now claim to have been, by the first part of the Prime Minister's answer it can only be because of a refusal to read what is in effect a dictionary meaning supplied in the later part of the Prime Minister's answer. Then he said: 
That,  1  now state, is my colleague, the former Minister for the Army. Immediately we asked the reason why. 
Not why it was a private visit but why it was the Minister for the Army, to take up something which the Leader of the Opposition said. The Prime Minister continued: 
They said that in  Ihe  China of that time the army had a pervasive influence throughout the whole of China. 
And the Kibels in their interviews confirmed that this was the view they put. The Prime Minister continued: 
That was the reason given, again  1  say, from a non-official source. 
That is, the reason why it was the Minister for the Army and not the reason why it was a private visit. Finally, the Prime Minister said: 
When it was pointed out that it would require a ministerial resignation from the portfolio and that we had troops in Vietnam this non-official source promptly dropped the idea and never raised it again. 
There we have the Prime Minister clearly stating that he has told the non-official source that the Government's objection is to the Minister for the Army going, or purporting to go, on a private visit in the circumstances that are referred to. This is not a condition imposed by China or an official representative of China or a nonofficial representative of China and there is no other construction open if one reads the answer as a whole. So the whole thing is a pack of cards. It is quite clear and the House could not have been misled. It is clear that what was objected to by the Government was the fact that the Minister for the Army was invited to go as a private citizen and he could not go in that capacity in the circumstances. I pointed out that this view accorded with advice which had been given to the Prime Minister by the Department of Foreign Affairs and me and I now confirm that to the House. This led one newspaper to say that what I had been saying was that the 'they' referred to were the Department of Foreign Affairs and me. However, I did not say that. I brought the Department of Foreign Affairs and myself into it when, after we had discussed the matter, I was asked where the advice came from. There has never been any question of that. Therefore, I would make the same interpretation. I think it is the obvious one when one reads the answer and one which any sensible or reasonable man would make. 
The decision which was taken was, I believe, a perfectly correct one and it accorded with the advice which was given by the Department of Foreign Affairs and by me. Such a visit would have done harm to our relations with other countries. The Leader of the Opposition is concerned with our relations with various countries in the South East Asian area. The Government has at all times been concerned with our relations with other countries in our region. It certainly could have done us harm in that respect. But the private refusal of the invitation could do no harm. It is only when mischief is sought to be made by raising in the House our relations with China in either this form or in relation to wheat sales that harm will result to Australia in its relations with China. I suggest that those who initiate this topic, rather than those who answer the questions, are the ones who initiate the mischief. It is quite clear that in relation to our sales of wheat to China there has been a long campaign of deliberate mischief. This was so in relation to the raising of the matter as a political issue in this Parliament last year. Subsequently the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  had the idea of visiting China with a view, I suggest, to embarrassing this Government over wheat sales to China. The Leader of the Opposition eventually joined that bandwaggon. But there was the attempt to embarrass. 
So persistent is this attempt to make mischief that quite recently when the Leader of the Opposition was overseas he took the trouble during a discussion with a representative of the People's Republic of China in New York to discuss the question of wheat sales and he received from that representative an assurance that there would be no sales to China preceding recognition of China. The Leader of the Opposition announced this and then announced that he would recognise China. In other words, mischievously the Leader of the Opposition is using this wheat issue to try to get electoral support. He has gone out of his way to receive and publicise something highly detrimental to this country in relation to wheat sales to China for purely political motives. As the Prime Minister said earlier, on such a trivial matter - a matter of semantics - the Opposition brings a no confidence motion and wastes the time of the House. Why? The Prime Minister suggested, and I too would like to suggest, the reasons for this. On the great issues of interest to the nation which we should be debating in this House, so vulnerable is the Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition that they do not wish to touch them. We should be debating things like industrial relations. The Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  stated the policy of the Opposition one week, and the next week they withdraw it. 
On the matter of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd the Leader of the Opposition's solution is to reduce tariffs in order to allow cheap Japanese steel to come into this country. I have never heard anything like that put forward as a solution for price rises. It means that the Leader of the Opposition would put at risk the jobs of Australian workers employed by BHP. He would damage a great Australian company. He would make it impossible for anyone to come in and set up another steel industry in Australia. That is one of the most ridiculous suggestions I have ever heard. But these things are not debated. Why are we not debating price control instead of debating the semantics of an answer? Here the Leader of the Opposition has a wonderful solution. He would appoint a joint supervisory committee of the Houses of Parliament. This would mean that members of Parliament, instead of doing their proper job, would be fixing the price of boots, galvanised iron, glass, windows, shirts and nails. What expertise have they? What motives would be attributed to them if they either agreed or disagreed with a price rise? I have never heard such a fantastic suggestion in my life. These are the things suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. He is vulnerable on all these major issues, so what is the ploy? Move a no confidence motion on semantics, on the wording of an answer! Build a house of cards! In this Parliament we should be debating the major issues facing the nation and not wasting our time on these trivialities. 
I will certainly, refer to the Attorney-General the matters which the right honourable gentleman has mentioned. But I heard some sounds from honourable members on the Opposition benches. It would be interesting to know how many members of the Australian Labor Party are prepared to follow the right honourable gentleman in giving effect to Labor policy on prices control. It is very clear that since the right honourable gentleman relinquished the leadership of the Australian Labor Party many basic principles and features of its platform have been departed from when the present leader has considered that it is expedient to do so. 
My colleague, the Attorney-General, will be able to read this question in Hansard, but perhaps I could just add that the rule of law really is fundamental to our institutions in Australia. 
-I have written a paper on the law of China and I will send the honourable member a copy, if he likes. It is a very interesting study. I delivered the paper in Melbourne when I was Attorney-General and the honourable member might be interested to see it. I can assure the honourable member that the position in China is quite different from that in Australia. Both the Parliament and our great legal institutions are based upon the rule that all citizens without exception are required to obey the law. The difficulty about what the Leader of the Opposition has put is that he is suggesting that someone is entitled to disobey the law on the off chance that the Labor Party will come to power and alter that law. I suppose the next thing that would apply is that if the Labor Party got the chance to pass some laws through this Parliament we could advise people to disobey those laws on the contingency that we would come back to the Parliament and repeal them. Is not this a totally irrespon sible approach? The Leader of the Opposition is a barrister of the New South Wales Supreme Court, and I suggest that it is an entirely irresponsible approach for him to suggest that citizens should disobey laws passed through this Parliament by their elected representatives. 
Our troops have been withdrawn from Vietnam as the position there has improved and is now much more secure than it was, and we have been continuing to assist the South Vietnamese by providing aid particularly to build a sound infrastructure. Presently we are reviewing our policy of providing medical aid, such as the surgical team at Bien Hoa. I think that as the position in Vietnam has improved all nations which have been giving aid have been reviewing their aid policies. We are carrying out a major review of our medical aid. What the result of that review will be I cannot say.  Sir William  Refshauge of the Commonwealth Department of Health led a team to Vietnam. A report has been submitted and it is presently being considered. 
-I do not know where the Leader of the Opposition gets his information. 
-I think the simplest way to answer this second Dorothy Dix question is to say that I will look at the matter and will communicate with the Leader of the Opposition in due course. 
It would be quite wrong to suggest that I had failed to prosecute any offence in this regard that had come under my attention while I was Attorney-General. I think there is a good deal of misunderstanding about section 145 of the Electoral Act. If honourable members are willing to let me speak they might be interested in having some views on the matter. They will recall that there was a challenge in the High Court by one Sarina against the election of certain senators. The case was conducted and heard.  Senator Murphy  appeared for the right honourable member for Melbourne who was also joined and I appeared for certain respondents. This question was debated before  Mr Justice  Kitto. Honourable members will notice that there are 3 types of expenditure which may be incurred. One is direct expenditure by the member himself. The second is expenditure made with the authority of the member on his behalf. Section 147  -  I think it is - provides that no-one may spend money on behalf of a member without his authority in writing. So it is an offence if money is spent on behalf of a member if the authority is not in writing. The third category- 
You can look at the record of the court proceedings before  Mr Justice  Kitto if you want to follow it out in more detail. The third category concerns money which people spend in the interests of the candidate. This is dealt with in a later section. Another section relates to organisations. In a Schedule to the Act is a requirement that a candidate must state certain types of expenditure. However, if one looks at the section which limited the amount it will be seen that it provided that a member should spend no more than the fixed amount himself or by his authority. So it covered the first 2 types of expenditure. I will not develop the matter any further at question time, but in the Schedule itself, and without warrant from the Act, is a provision concerning the expenditure of money in the interests of the candidates.  Mr Justice  Kitto clearly took the view in argument that it was the 2 first types of expenditure that were referred to in the prohibition and not the third type. Finally, the matter was nol proceeded with. I think that if the honourable member takes this under consideration he could find that even he himself may not be breaking the law. 
-I certainly think that the visit produced a great deal of good will and was a remarkable success from any view. Of course we have had many close exchanges with Indonesia over a long period before the visit occurred and our relations had been on a good footing beforehand. The visit itself was successful. The honourable member for Herbert has asked for details of practical benefit which resulted from the visit. At Government level I could perhaps point to three. Firstly, it was arranged for regular meetings of Foreign Affairs officials to take place. This was arranged between the Indonesian Foreign Minister and myself. Secondly, it was also arranged that regular meetings would take place between officials from the Department of Trade and 
Industry and their opposite numbers in Indonesia. Thirdly, it was arranged that the remaining disputes between us over the boundary of the continental shelf between the 2 countries would be the subject of an early conference of experts and arrangements have been put in hand to carry that into effect. 
At business level the  President  spoke to businessmen both in Melbourne and Sydney and, although I cannot point to specific projects, my information is that definite progress has been made in interesting businessmen in ventures in Indonesia. We also had an opportunity to discuss the proposed gift of Sabre aircraft which was mentioned earlier by the Prime Minister, and this matter is proceeding. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my reply to the right honourable member's Question No. 4367. 
-I do not think it would be appropriate for me ito discuss with a parliamentary delegation the matter raised in the last part of the honourable gentleman's question. The delegation from the Soviet Union has been to Canberra and has been entertained by the InterParliamentary Union. It has now left. In fact,  1  met the delegation at Sydney airport this morning but I did not discuss that topic with it. I met the delegation in passing through; it was a casual meeting in transit. As to the substance of the honourable gentleman's question, I do not have any information on this but I will look into the matters which he has raised. 
-I am aware of the great interest that the honourable member for Fremantle has in this area and of his recent visit. I have not previously had any request for assistance of this nature in our contact with that Government in respect of aid which, as the House will know, we are giving on a substantial scale at the present time. However, 1 will have some inquiries made by my Department to see whether anything can be done along the lines supplied by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not considered appropriate for the Government to appeal to Pakistani and Indian doctors now in Australia to return home for the purposes indicated. The doctors would be well aware of the situation in these 2 countries. 
Applications for entry to Australia by well qualified non-Europeans wishing to settle in Australia may be considered on the basis of their suitability as settlers, their ability to integrate readily and their possession of qualifications positively useful to Australia. Expatriate Indian and Pakistani medical practitioners may be eligible to enter Australia if their qualifications are recognised by State Medical Registration Boards. It is difficult to see bow any action by Australia to discourage any such doctors who are "eligible to come here would alleviate conditions in India and Pakistan. 
This article in the Sunday Australian' is not the first of which one could perhaps say the kind of thing that I now have to say:  Mr James  Kibel has taken the trouble to telephone from New York to say that this article is incorrect. He has never used any of those words or anything like them and the article is untrue. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of the Agreement between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of Japan for Co-operation in the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy. This agreement was signed in Canberra on 21st February 1972.  Mr Speaker,  I seek the leave of the House to make a statement about the Agreement which I have just tabled. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Governmental exchanges on the Paris peace talks are confidential in nature and must necessarily remain so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attendance of Opposition members at the luncheon for President Soeharto on 7th February was as follows: 
Senate - 13 out of 26 ALP senators. 
House of Representatives - 25 out of 59 ALP members. 
This included the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Opposition, and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. Parliament was not sitting at the time. 
There is no means available to the Government, nor we believe to anyone else, to estimate exactly the number of Indonesians who lost their lives in the disturbances following 30th September 1965, when some of the Indonesian Army's most senior generals were murdered by communist gangs. The only official Indonesian Government figure that I am aware of is an announcement in January 1966 by President Sukarno that 87,000 people had been killed. 
A number of allegations emanating from various sources were made at the time and sebsequently, including the allegation that some of the people who lost their lives were members or supporters of the Communist Party of Indonesia. 
I do not believe that it would be appropriate for me to comment on this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The Ambassador and senior officers of the Australian Embassy in Paris maintain close touch with the delegations of the Republic of Vietnam and of the United States, to follow the negotiations, and to report regularly to the Australian Government. Our representatives are also instructed as necessary to seek clarifications or to express the views of the Australian Government. 
Australian Embassy in Paris - Visits by  Dr Kissinger  (Question No.  5101) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of a Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation between Japan and Australia was first raised by Japan in 1955. The matter lapsed when the Agreement on Commerce was concluded in 1957. 
While the subject has been raised more recently in an informal way by Japanese officials, there have been no substantive discussions between the Australian and Japanese Governments. The matter is at present under consideration by interested departments. The issues involved are complex and it will be some time before any assessment can be made whether a Treaty would be in the interests of Australia having regard to its close and developing relations with Japan. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The scope and form of legislation prerequisite to ratification is still under active consideration. 
I did see a reference in the Press to the report. The report was published only yesterday and I have not received a copy of it. There is very close consultation between the present Government and all levels of the Administration in America. Secretary of State Rogers was kind enough to send me an advance copy of those sections which dealt with Australia and New Zealand, the section dealing with the South Pacific and a summary of the main points of his statement. I think that honourable members will like to read the report when it is available in Australia because it does emphasise that although America is withdrawing its ground troops from Asia it still regards the Pacific area as vital to its security. It mentions the ANZUS Treaty which, of course, involves Australia and New Zealand. We know how vital this is to our security. I think the significance of the change in Labor policy at Launceston needs to be considered because the effect of that decision is to eliminate the military aspects, the defence and security aspects, of ANZUS. I think that Opposition members should read this foreign policy statement because carrying their policy into effect would not only damage relations with America but also isolate Australia in what is probably one of the most volatile and potentially dangerous areas in the world. I do not claim to retain the con tents of the report in my head but one phrase did strike me and I will get as close to it as I can. 
My current advice on this subject is that Bangla Desh does not automatically become a member of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation and therefore, as far as I am aware, will not be attending the SEATO meeting. As to whether any steps will be taken in the meantime to bring about a difference in the position, it is impossible at this stage to project. The SEATO meeting will be held in Canberra towards the end of June, and it is not clear whether by then Bangla Desh will be a member of various bodies including the British Commonwealth, which it has applied to join. Therefore I cannot give a definitive reply to the later inquiries by the Leader of the Opposition. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. This is the second time I have had occasion to refer to Labor Party policy on the ANZUS Treaty, and on the other occasion the Leader of the Opposition gave this explanation. All I can say is that the military aspects have been removed from it and it has been made an instrument for justice in the area. This is the critical thing. It is no answer to say that if you have removed the heart from a lettuce you have given it great prominence by moving it further forward in the display case. 
 Mr Speaker,  I should like to ask the Leader of the Opposition to repeat his question. However, perhaps I can try to deal with the substance of it and if there is anything I miss no doubt the honourable and learned gentleman will remind me. In the first place he referred to the statement I made in my other capacity at an earlier point of time. Of course, whether it would have been implemented had I continued in that position may be another question. But coming to the question of the Bill which is on our notice paper, I understood that it was to come forward and that would be the time when anything should be said about it. I do not think question time is the time to debate matters that are on the notice paper. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave of the House to make a statement. 
-I rather gather that what the honourable gentleman is complaining about regarding our policy towards China is that it differs from that of the United States, and that what he wants us to do is to follow  President  Nixon. That appears to be what the honourable gentleman is suggesting. I do not believe that question time is the time to debate foreign policy at any length, but I can assure the honourable gentleman that the Government, with caution and in a proper way, is making approaches to the People's Republic of China and I do not think that any good purpose is served by discussing the details of these approaches. In regard to the result of the President's visit, we are hopeful that the approach of  President  Nixon to the People's Republic of China will lead in the long run to some reduction of tension in this area. We hope that it will be a beginning, a step, but this objective has not been achieved simply by the visit. It is hoped that it will have that effect. I have no doubt that there were strong reasons of policy behind the President's visit, and not simply the motives which the honourable gentleman has assigned to it. 
The position in Korea has very largely stabilised. As with so many of these areas, there has been strong economic progress in South Korea. It has become almost a showplace of advancement, as has Taiwan. Actually, the economic advancement which has been made there is absolutely remarkable. Its overseas trade is the same as that of the whole of the People's Republic of China and it is now largely able to look after its own defence. As honourable members know, Australia assisted in the provision of United Nations forces to protect the South Koreans from the attacks and the aggression which they were suffering. At the present time, there are still some American soldiers there and it is intended that they will remain in Korea for some time, although such is the strength of the South Korean forces that it is no longer as necessary as it was for them to have this assistance on the ground. I believe that they have reached a position of considerable stability in that area. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
All that is required is that each country, under its legislation, prescribes the other as  a  reciprocating country'. 
No. Regulations declaring Malaysia, amongst other countries, to be a reciprocating country came into operation on 9th March 1972. 
, (4) and (5) See answer to (2) above. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes.I added that it was agreed that a careful watch should be continued in this area. 
We would welcome an arrangement which provided for agreed, balanced and effective limitation on great power naval forces in the area. It is clear however, that such a limitation could only be brought about through negotiations on the part of the major powers directly concerned. The Australian representative's statement at the last ses sion of the United Nations General Assembly on the Ceylon proposal for a Zone of Peace in the Indian Ocean outlines Australia's views on that proposal (United Nations document No. A/C 1/PV. 1848 pp. 71-72). That proposal failed to win the support of a very significant number of members of the United Nations including the 2 major powers most directly concerned. 
See answer to (1) above. 
My understanding is that  Senator Sim  has said that he was incorrectly reported. I will have a discussion with him and then reply to the honourable member. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  persists in this allegation. What is he relying on? He has quoted from a statement in a book by  Mr Ray  Aitchison that somebody told  Mr Aitchison  something. He relies also on someone having said something to him, not someone who would have known the fact but someone who has relayed a rumour to him. He also says that there is a report from Britain that they had heard of the allegation. What sort of evidence is this to substantiate a responsible member of this Parliament making a grave allegation against the 
Government of his own country. My understanding is that the journalists in the Parliamentary Press Gallery at the. time also had heard of this furphy. Some of them spent quite some time in checking the story at the time. It was found universally to be untrue and no-one published it. 
-I had read the official accounts of the conversations before the debate yesterday and I have taken the opportunity of re-reading them since. Before I make any comment on those conversations, I think I should say that they are confidential reports and would not commonly be generally made available. The reason for this is obvious. One cannot have confidential conversations with Ministers of foreign governments if one is to rush to the Press and give accounts of them or if one is to publish the record of conversation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition very properly drew attention to this point yesterday. He said that these reports should not be generally made available. However, having said that, I think I would be prepared to make them available to individual members who wished to study them and had an interest in doing so. 
I would simply make the general comment that on my reading of them, the vice in what the honourable member for St George has said about the view of these governments is that his is a partial and misleading statement of what they said. I was in Singapore last Saturday and there is no doubt whatever that the Singapore Government was considerably embarrassed by what the honourable member for St George had done. Of course, this is the difficulty in the whole situation. Australia has been building up immense goodwill, trust and friendship in this area. They are very good friends of ours. They trust us. I know all the foreign ministers of the area personally. By interviewing a foreign minister, rushing out and giving a partial account to the Press of what has been said and making allegations such as that of bugging by the Australian Government of the Malaysian delegation in Canberra, the honourable member does nothing but damage to Australia's interests. This is an issue far transcending the credibility of the honourable member for St George. He must have known that he was going to catch a headline with this allegation about bugging. What his motives were I leave out of question. But the fact is that he must have known, as we all know, the immense damage that is done to Australia's interest by this type of activity. The allegation was totally unfounded. I suggest that Australia's interests should be put first in any further consideration of this matter. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked me a question on this very matter yesterday. Following that question I took the course of having a discussion with  Senator Sim  and I have written to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The position is that  Senator Sim,  when he returned to Australia, gave an oral account of the situation to the 'West Australian'. This was published in the "West Australian' of 10th March.  Senator Sim  said to me that he bad nothing to add to the explanation that he then gave, which indicated that his remarks had been taken out of context. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend for 12 months the operation of the Australian Capital Territory Evidence (Temporary Provisions) Act 1971. Honourable members will recall that when the Evidence Ordinance 1971 of the Australian Capital Territory was disallowed by the Senate in August last year, the Australian Capital Territory Evidence (Temporary Provisions) Act 1971 was passed by the Parliament to prevent there being a hiatus in the law of evidence in this Territory. This legislation had the effect of enacting the Ordinance in statutory form but only until 31st March 1972, the date decided by the Senate as being the date upon which the temporary provisions should cease to be in force. 
As Honourable members are aware, I introduced a Bill, the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill 1972, on 24th February to provide for the law of evidence in this Territory. The Bill is still in Committee and there is now no possibility of it being passed before 31st March. It is therefore necessary to extend this date for a period to enable the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill to be passed. The debate in Committee on the Bill has raised many issues of considerable complexity and it is generally accepted by those senators who have interested themselves in the Bill that there would be benefit if these issues could be considered by a standing committee. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  has in mind moving a motion that the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The Committee must be given adequate time to give proper consideration to the Bill. The purpose of this present Bill therefore is to extend the operation of the temporary legislation until 31st March 1973. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
 in reply - In reply to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  might I make 2 comments. Firstly, I have noted his remark about the possibility of giving the Bill a wider operation. This was considered when the Bill originated. It was thought that this Bill, which is a modern and advanced Bill, might be a pilot for a possible Commonwealth evidence Act. It was thought that consideration of wider operation would have delayed the Bill in its present form, and consequently we proceeded at that time with the Bill relating to the Australian Capital Territory first. The other matter that the Leader of the Opposition raised of course does not concern the Bill currently before the House but the Bill which is currently being referred to the standing committee of the Senate. That would normally arise for consideration in this House if and when it comes down to this House from the Senate. The House would then be in a position to consider whether it wished to refer it to a House of Representatives committee. I will take note of the suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition that this might be an appropriate case for a joint committee of the 2 Houses. I will refer that suggestion to my colleague in another place. I can see that this might result in a saving of time in that we would not have another committee starting afresh and going over the same ground again. I can see that practical advantage, but on the other hand I should point out that because it is a standing committee of the Senate to which it is being referred the Senate may find some practical difficulties in the suggestion. However, I will refer the suggestion to my colleague in the other place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Australian Government has not expressed a view to either government on their declarations. The position is that each has now claimed a 12-mile territorial sea. The width of the Malacca Strait at its narrowest point is about 8 miles, and this makes it territorial waters if this claim is acceded to, with the right of innocent passage only. We understand the position of these 2 countries and their concern with the  possibility  of pollution. Large oil tankers of up to 200,000 tons are going through the straits. We understand their problems with navigational aids. A very large amount of traffic is passing through there at the present time. We also understand the concern they have about security. The landing of arms from vessels passing through the straits is a possibility. 
Although we understand these matters we are concerned with the principle of closing off international straits by the adoption of the 12-mile limit. Since the 12-mile limit will be discussed at the International Conference on the Law of the Sea in 1973 we think that the proper time to determine what happens to all such straits that may be closed - a very large number of them might be closed by the adoption of the 12-mile limit by nations generally - and the proper time for considation of that regime would be at that conference. We are prepared to discuss in advance our attitude with our neighbours at that conference and we will also have prior discussions with the States of Australia. 
-I have seen the text of the proclamation. It declares a week of national concern from, I think, the 26th of this month. I would like to express our deep concern and compassion for those who are prisoners of war or missing and for the families who are suffering as a result. Perhaps one might say that Australia has been less unfortunate than the United States in that I know of only 4 Australians, that is 2 soldiers missing presumed dead, and 2 Air Force personnel missing, who would fall into the category covered by the proclamation, while the Americans have over 1,600 servicemen and about 50 civilians in that category. The North Vietnamese are parties to the Geneva Convention relating to prisoners of war. I think we must condemn the fact that they will not identify their prisoners of war. They will not permit inspection of the areas where they are held. They will not permit those who are wounded or sick to be repatriated. They will not permit correspondence. These are breaches of the Geneva Convention. One would hope that the appeal made by the  President  of the United States, which I believe has the support of all men of goodwill throughout the world, will have some effect on the intransigent attitude of the North Vietnamese. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I am aware of correspondence in the Singapore Press in August 1971 about incidents involving an Australian club team during a match in the Pesta Sukan (Festival of Sport) Invitation Basketball Championships. The club concerned was not an Australian representative team and its visit at the direct invitation of the Singapore Basketball Association was not sponsored by the Government 
and (3) The circumstances surrounding the incident referred to were thoroughly examined at the time by the Australian High Commission. As the matter was closed 6 months ago it is not considered desirable to seek to revive it at this stage. 
Diplomatic Representation in Cyprus  (Question No. 4977) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia's bilateral relations with the Republic of Cyprus have not been considered sufficiently substantial at this stage to justify the dual accreditation of an Australian High Commissioner to Cyprus from another post. However, the Australian Embassy in Athens has a general responsibility for reporting on Cyprus and the staff of the Embassy visit Cyprus at regular intervals. 
The following countries have resident missions in Cyprus headed by an Ambassador, High Commissioner or Charge d'Affaires: Britain, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, France, West Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Romania, Syria, Turkey, Soviet Union, United States, Yugoslavia. 
The following countries have non-resident Ambassadors or High Commissioners accredited to Cyprus. The country of residence is shown in brackets: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government recognises the gravity of the problems caused by rapid population growth and at the United Nations and in other international bodies has supported the provision of advice and assistance to national programmes of population control at the request of recipient governments. However, after careful consideration, the Government has decided not to accord financial assistance to the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) at the present time. 
The following countries have announced pledges to the UNFPA: Barbados, Botswana, Canada, Ceylon, Republic of China, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Finland, France, Guatemala, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, 
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan. Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Mauritius, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Somalia, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, United Kingdom, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia and United States. (Question No. 5194) 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the twenty-sixth session of the United Nations General Assembly. 
In the course of my remarks earlier I referred to the Eggleston proposals regarding takeovers for the protection of shareholders and mentioned that we had made an ordinance for the Australian Capital Territory. Although that is correct, I have been informed that difficulties in drafting the regulations have delayed the bringing into force of the ordinance and that it is expected that it will be in operation in a few weeks time. It is not at present in operation. I think I should make that correction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Australia does not recognise or have any dealings with the Smith regime. Any message would need to be addressed to  Mr Smith  through the British Government which has already sent messages to  Mr Smith  expressing its concern at the continued detention of  Mr Garfield  Todd and Miss Todd. 
Establishment of Royal Commission into Foreign Relations  (Question No.  5059) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have day to day discussions with the Prime Minister on all manner of subjects and do not have any record of the date or dates of discussions relating to the matter referred to by the honourable member. 
I am not aware of any discussions of the type suggested by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
-I shall answer the last part of the question first. As honourable members know, Australia is a free society and we freely let information come in. The People's Republic of China has a quite substantial distribution through the New China Newsagency and so on. I hope, speaking in a general way, that this will continue to be our approach in the Australian society, but the position regarding the Rhodesian Information Centre does raise additional questions because of the existence of Security Council resolutions which we have supported and faithfully observed. When dealing with anything which might be said to be coming from Southern Rhodesia it must always be considered whether the Security Council resolutions are concerned. This situation involves 3 areas. First, of course, there is the question that certain documents have been placed before my Department which, I understand, are supposed or alleged to have been stolen. This matter falls within the jurisdiction of my colleague, the Attorney-General, and it is a matter which necessarily I think all honourable members would want followed up. In our community people should not think that they are able to break into premises, steal property and use it in this fashion. This aspect certainly will be considered. 
-I said that 3 departments were involved, the first being the Attorney-General's Department. The second department is that administered by the Minister for Customs and Excise. It is a matter for him to deal with questions relating to the importation of goods. The House will be aware that following on the Security Council resolutions we did amend our regulations in order to carry out our obligations under those resolutions of the Security Council. I would leave it to the Minister for Customs and Excise to deal with that aspect of the matter. I come now to the matter which concerns the third department involved, namely, the Department of Foreign Affairs. I have read with great interest the newspapers from day to day because very little of what has been said in them has borne any relation to facts which have been placed constantly before me. In brief, what I say is this: A study has been made of the material which has been placed in the hands of the Department of Foreign Affairs. It is the advice of my Department and also my advice to the Prime Minister that the documents do not constitute grounds for closing the Rhodesian Information Centre. 
-I have not myself read all the documents so I cannot of my own knowledge answer piece by piece what the Leader of the Opposition has put to me. But my information does not accord with his account of the documents. The facts relating to the member of the South African Embassy are rather that apparently the Rhodesian office thought it had some arrangement with him and this was never carried out. Indeed, the South African Ambassador has given us an assurance that neither in the past nor in the present has the Embassy or any official in it taken part in the suggested activity. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has spoken mainly of the proposal for a takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Limited by Thomas Nationwide Transport Limited. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  in answer to a question today, indicated the Government's general approach to the current proposal; but other issues of policy arise, such as the 2- airline policy, and these issues fall within the responsibility of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who is represented in this House by my colleague the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who is to follow me in this debate. The Opposition's matter of public importance is much more general than the mere question of the current takeover proposal. It refers to 'the Government's failure to introduce laws with respect to the takeover of companies'. That is quite general. The reference goes on to say 'particularly where such companies operate under government franchises and guarantees'. 
As the Minister in this House representing my colleague the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  I feel that the House is entitled to some observations on the matter of public importance that has been raised by the Opposition. The major question with takeovers is the need to protect the company's shareholders against possible use of unfair takeover methods. It is quite wrong to suggest that the Government has not introduced laws dealing with this. Indeed it introduced them quite recently. I recall, taking part, as AttorneyGeneral, in discussions of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General when we had before us a report of the Eggleston Committee on company law which was proposing a modern and much improved set of rules relating to takeovers of companies. These were directed towards protecting the Interests of the shareholders. This was the first thing. Following the discussion by the Attorneys-General we decided that we would introduce amendments to the existing company law on this topic. In fact, that has been done. Not only has the Commonwealth in its Territories adopted a new takeover code designed to protect shareholders, but several State governments have adopted similar legislation. This requires the disclosure of beneficial interests of 10 per cent or more of shares of listed companies. It sets out in a code a modern and improved set of conditions under which takeover offers may be made. 
Provision is also made for the control of takeovers of companies under the Banks (Shareholdings) Act. This has been dealt with quite recently in this Parliament by a Government Bill. Honourable members will be well aware that in the areas of television and radio broadcasting the acquisition of control by foreign interests has been excluded by statute. So it is simply not correct to say that this Government has not been dealing with the question of takeovers. Also the Government has acted in particular cases to preserve. Australian ownership and control of enterprises which, for special reasons of national interest or importance, it was thought ought not to be permitted to pass into foreign hands. The general question of takeovers and their control by governments is a very complex one. Honourable members know that it is currently under consideration by the Government with respect to amendments to the Trade Practices Act. It was not until a decision had been given in the High Court in the concrete pipes case that it could be said with any confidence that the Commonwealth Parliament had power to legislate in this area. 
It is true that in 1962 when  Sir Garfield  Barwick was formulating proposals - not a Bill - for the Trade Practices Act, he included some proposals for Government intervention prior to a takeover taking place. But when our current Trade Practices Act was introduced into this House originally in 1965 there were 3 things which led to a decision not to include a general code relating to takeovers. Firstly, there was doubt about the power of the Commonwealth Parliament to control this area, a doubt which has since been removed by the decision in the concrete pipes case. Secondly, there was a difficulty about the philosophy of preventing companies from arriving at a size where they would achieve economies of size in order to meet our export position. Australia is in a stage of development at which we do not want to have only small businesses. We have to compete in a real world and we have to have big businesses as well. A company like Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd can compete in the world. Australia wants to be able to compete in the world. To do this we must have economies of size. Therefore we do not want to prevent all mergers or takeovers. Which ones should be prevented raises a very complex question of policy. Thirdly, there was the determinative point at that time - these matters were put by the Attorney-General of the day in his speech to this House in 1965  -  and that was the question of what mechanism could be used to control takeovers in a general way. Honourable members will remember that this was before such matters had been introduced in other countries. 
The choice to be made is to intervene either at the point when a takeover offer has been made or even before that, when it is privately being formulated and has been notified to the Government. To institute a Government inquiry at that stage - I say this having had some experience in practice in dealing with the procedures relating to takeovers - would have the effect, as 1 think everyone would agree, of preventing, by the mere exercise of delay, the operation of most takeovers. A takeover is something which comes up quickly and if in the process one were to interpose a government inquiry, ill sorts of things could happen. The financial position could change and by the time the inquiry resulted in a report, the takeover would no longer be on. Anyone who knows anything about takeovers will appreciate what I am saying. If instead of that we allow takeovers to take place and if we come in after they have taken place and have a government inquiry as to whether they are good or bad, an entirely different problem is faced. We would face the problem of the man whose eggs have been scrambled, oi, if you like, made into an omelette and who is then required to put the eggs back into the shells. 
This is the difficult point of time at which the Government is called upon to in ervene - after the event has taken place - and the difficulty is in finding the mechanics which will work. We had net solved that problem in 1965. After our Trade Practices Bill had been passed, one of our officers was in England at the time the English were putting through a Bill to give to the Monopolies Commission the right to intervene in takeovers. There was some doubt as to how they were to work. The British experience is now before us and it is one of the additional factors that we have to assist us in determining what we should do. As honourable members know, these problems were tackled broadly in the United Kingdom on the basis that they could inquire after a takeover to establish whether it should be allowed or whether they should endeavour to restore the position. However, in a limited number of cases, companies could go to the Board of Trade for a kind of clearance. If it was an obvious case of a good takeover, companies could obtain a clearance from the Board of Trade without going through the procedure of having it referred to the Monopolies Commission. We have watched the British experience. We have seen the system appear to be operating in a practical way and on top of all this, we now have a High Court decision in the concrete pipes case which suggests very strongly that we have the power to come into the matter. 
Towards the end of last year,  Senator Murphy  in another place moved an amendment to a Bill to extend the Trade Practices Act. One of his amendments sought to provide that where a merger would result in a monopoly situation - and this was defined - it should be prohibited. This was not something that the Government could accept. It was not in any way selective and in this field one must be selective in the national interest. Some form of inquiry is necessary.  Senator Murphy's  amendment was too drastic and it was not accepted by the Government. We passed the Bill but we did say that the Government would undertake to give careful consideration to takeover provisions. 
What is the current position? Since then the Government has done an enormous amount of work both in the departments concerned, including the AttorneyGeneral's Department, and in the sub-committee of Ministers who are concerned in this matter. My colleague, the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said in the Senate on 23rd March of this year in answer to a question from the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  that although he was not able to give a definite date as to when the legislation to amend the Trade Practices Act would be introduced, because this was dependent firstly on the reaction to a statement which he was to make outlining the Government's proposal, and secondly, on the question of drafting, it certainly was proposed that as soon as possible - he anticipated that it would be within a matter of weeks - a full statement outlining what the Government was proposing would be made not only in the other place but also in this House. That is the current position. The proposals are coming to fruition. They now have only to go before the Government for final decision and after the decision is made an announcement will be made in this House. So, the raising of this subject as a matter of public importance really is beside the point insofar as it relates to the general question of takeover offers. The Government has done an enormous amount of work on this question since its undertaking given at the end of last year. Its proposals are just at the stage of finality. They have to go before the Government for final decision and we would hope that shortly, in the other place, my colleague the Attorney-General will make a statement and perhaps I will make one in this House on his behalf. 
In dealing with the current proposal put by the honourable member for Newcastle, I will leave those matters involving policy issues mainly to my colleague who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in this House. However, it is true to say that where the Commonwealth Government has a particular stake in an industry, as it certainly has in the airlines industry because of the guarantees of loans which the Commonwealth undertakes and because of the licences to buy planes which it must give, a special situation is presented where if that Commonwealth interest were threatened, the Government would have to move in independently of a general trade practices position. That is what the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said in answer to a question today. The other aspect of course was that if we found that some foreign control was likely to come as a result of a takeover of a transport industry of this magnitude, the Government again would have to move not in a general trade practices sense, but in a special way to meet that special condition against the national, interest. The Government is well aware of those matters. The Prime Minister has stated this and there is no need for the raising of this matter of public importance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 28th February 1972 all Australian-based officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs serving overseas were Australian citizens by birth, residence, registration or naturalisation, with the exception of 6, all of whom were British subjects and citizens of the United Kingdom, serving in the following countries: 
-I am aware of newspaper reports of the talks between the Australian and Japanese businessmen. These talks are something that the Government would seek not to prevent but rather to encourage. I hope that they will increase very substantially in the years to come. I think that the more contact there is between businessmen of the 2 countries the better; I say this knowing some of the businessmen in each of these countries. The topics to be discussed at these meetings are a matter for the businessmen to determine themselves. This is not a matter which this Government seeks to control, nor in this instance do I believe that it is a matter sought to be controlled by the Japanese Government. I have no comment to make on the matters discussed. The parties to these meetings are free to discuss whatever matters they choose, and as I say, we would seek to encourage contact between the 2 countries on this basis. The Government, of course, is not responsible for any particular views put forward at these meetings. If Government support is required, this is the point at which the Government would consider the matter. As honourable members know, the Government has set up a permanent interdepartmental committee to co-ordinate all matters affecting trade with Japan. We have also set up a joint ministerial committee comprising Japanese Ministers and Australian Ministers under the chairmanship of the Australian Foreign Minister or the Japanese Foreign Minister. The first meet-' ing of this committee is expected to take place perhaps towards the end of July in Australia. I think that the Australian Government will be able to take care of the Australian people, with whom it is concerned, and I hope that the Australian businessmen will be able to take adequate and prudent care of their interests. 
The Attorney-Gen-' era! has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is expected that the joint CommonwealthState law courts building in Sydney will be ready' for occupation towards the end of 1974. 
The Commonwealth-State Law Courts Planning Committee which includes  Sir John  Overall, as  Chairman,  the Director-General of the Commonwealth Department of Works and the Director of the New South Wales Department of Public Works, has discussed this matter with the  President  of the Royal Australian Institute of Architects. The demolition of the old Supreme Court Building, to permit the closing of King Street between Phillip and Macquarie Streets and the widening of Elizabeth Street, has always been part of the overall plan which has had wide publicity over a number of years. 
en - The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In effect, yes. 
No; in matters of this kind each case has to be looked at if and when it arises in the light of its own circumstances. 
The question is hypothetical, but in any case an answer would involve an expression of  a  legal opinion which it would not be in accordance with practice to give. 
-I will consider it, but 1 am a little concerned with what the honourable member for Lalor might say. I have just received a transcript of what he said on the programme 'PM' on Friday night last. Perhaps the House would bear with me if I just mention it. 
This would be one of the factors which would be a determinative when I was making my decision. I was asked whether I would consider this matter. I will consider it, but this is one of the factors I would like to take into account. It is a matter which, I suppose, anyone who is going to appear on a public platform with the honourable member for Lalor would have to consider carefully. However, as the honourable member for Lalor will know, I have been on a public platform - at the time in an area bordering on my own electorate - debating with him, and I do not think he has any doubt that if necessary 1 will be prepared to debate with him. 
It is true that there would be approximately ISO Australians - either instructors or persons connected with the instruction and training of Vietnamese and Cambodians - still in South Vietnam. Indeed, there are more than that. Very substantial Australian aid programmes are in progress in South Vietnam and we have there hospital personnel and people concerned with our aid projects such as the water supply system to Saigon. The House of course is aware that we are still assisting our friends and allies in South Vietnam although our troops have so recently withdrawn from that area. In this context it is quite clear that there has been a blatant invasion by North Vietnam; indeed, its troops are out of their own country attacking others not only in South Vietnam but also in Laos and in Cambodia. North Vietnamese troops are attacking and killing in Cambodia and they are attacking and killing in Laos. They are attacking and killing in South Vietnam our friends and allies. In these circumstances, we see clear support from certain sections of the Australian Labor Party for this blatant, aggression against our friends and allies. Those sections of the Australian Labor Party are not only supporting this aggression; there was also a report that the honourable member for Lalor was calling for an end to the Australian-American alliance. I suggest that not only is this disgraceful in itself but also it reflects the deep feeling amongst a very substantial section of the Australian Labor Party which would be consistent with the aims and the objectives of the communists who are attacking and which would be extremely hostile to our friend and ally, .the United States. This is the significant thing: This section of the Australian Labor Party which has such dominance in the definition of the Party's defence and foreign affairs policy has this attitude. 
I understand that the phrase 'breezy iconoclasm' has been used by editorial writers to describe the approach to foreign affairs of the Australian Labor Party spokesman on foreign affairs, the honourable member for St George. I doubt whether this term would accurately describe the honourable member's approach. After all, iconoclastic activity is more likely to be directed against things in 
Russia than anything else and I doubt whether these activities would accord with the honourable member's views. As to breezy iconoclasm, while there are qualifications, such as getting on with one's fellow men, which are very valuable in the Department of Foreign Affairs, other qualities are necessary. I would place intelligence, integrity, efficiency and a deep concern for the interests of one's own country as very important in this area. I believe that we have these qualities in our Department of Foreign Affairs. In addition we have great professionalism and morale is high. The only time I have seen morale drop suddenly in the Department was on the occasion when I visited Singapore during November last year while returning from Saigon. I was then at the High Commission and gathered together with the whole of the staff listening to a broadcast from Melbourne of the Melbourne Cup. When it was found that I held Silver Knight in the sweepstake there was a sharp drop in morale at the High Commission, but that was the only drop in morale that I have noticed while I have been Minister. 
 The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (5) On the sixth day of March, 1972,  Mr Justice  Connor was appointed as a Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory.  His  appointment brought to three the number of Judges of that Court appointed under section 7 (1 . ) of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act.  Mr Justice  Connor's appointment will assist in enabling civil cases to be heard by the Court without due delay. Prior to his appointment the waiting time for civil cases to be heard after being set down was of the order of 10 months. 
Of course it is very difficult to give precise figures in circumstances of this character, although some work is being done to give me more precise figures than I have at present. With the qualification that one cannot guarantee the accuracy of the figures, I can say that the evidence at the moment points to the "fact that the Soviet Union would have supplied aid to North Vietnam to the extent of SI, 000m in the past year whereas the People's Republic of China would have provided aid to the extent of about $300m in that time. I would hope to have further information on the subject. As to the question of advisers, there have been reports that Russian advisers have been in North Vietnam. I am not able to confirm whether this is correct. 
-I have not had reports of these headlines or articles in the newspapers in Singapore. I think there is a danger in the South East Asian area at times that the attacks that are made or the views that are expressed by the Opposition could run the risk of being considered to be the views of the Australian people. This applies also to immigration policy, defence and other matters. In this instance I will take aboard what the honourable gentleman has said as to those in Singapore, but I have every confidence that the Singaporeans know precisely where we stand. It is only a short time ago that I was sitting in  Mr Rajaratnam's  home on a Saturday afternoon where we exchanged very frank views for an hour and a half, and I think we each know where the other stands and what our government's policies are. I have not the slightest doubt that he is not misled in any way. 
To answer this question fully would take some considerable time. Let me start with the statement that was made relating to prisoners of war and those missing in action in Vietnam. As honourable members know. North Vietnam is holding prisoners of war. It does not observe the Geneva Convention. It will not allow mail. It will not allow inspections. It will not allow any wounded or sick people- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As this question covers the sphere of activity of other Departments and State authorities, full details are not immediately available. The necessary particulars are being obtained from the other authorities involved and will be provided as soon as Inquiries are complete. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Votes are assigned to the South Pacific Commission's participating governments in the following manner: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a result of talks in 1970 and 1971, an agreement was signed between Indonesia and Australia on 18th May 1971 establishing a partial seabed boundary between Indonesia on the one hand and Australia, the Territory of Papua and the Trust Territory of New Guinea on the other hand. 
In February 1972, during the visit to Australia of President Soeharto, it was agreed to hold an early meeting of representatives of Indonesia and Australia with a view to completing the delineation of the boundary. 
The answer to the Leader of the Opposition's question is as follows:  $26,700 was expended in the 1970-71 financial year on cultural exchanges under the Cultural Agreement with Indonesia. 
This motion states: That the Government should take effective legislative and administrative action to counter racial prejudice and violence. Serious issues are involved in this motion. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has chosen rather to pick on a few isolated incidents which are mainly of a small character and has filled out his speech with a series of personal attacks on the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  on myself, and the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  I do not propose to try to follow this line of personal attack though, heaven knows, there are sufficient matters before me to enable me to press it. I want to try to bring this debate back to the big issues. But perhaps at the outset I should take up 2 matters that were mentioned. The Leader of the Opposition said that I had sabotaged action against the Rhodesian Information Centre. It is true that I did not take any action to close the centre. I explained the reasons at the time. The facts are that I was presented with a bundle of documents, supposed to have been stolen. These documents were placed under study by my Department My Department advised me and both I and the Department advised the Prime Minister. I have stated what that advice was, namely, that these documents did not warrant action to close the Centre. This has been stated in the House and the Leader of the Opposition knows it. When he says I have sabotaged action either he does not know the meaning of the word sabotage' or he is deliberately putting forward a false proposition knowing it to be false. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that the Prime Minister is reported to have made some statement about a Croatian march. As I understand it this took place 4 years ago on a streetcorner when the Prime Minister was returning from a game of squash. He is supposed to have been overheard talking to a companion about a group of men who were walking by waving banners. This was 4 years ago so how could one recollect the actual happening? The Prime Minister apparently looked at these men and said to his companion: 'They seem to be a gay bunch' or words to that effect. I cannot produce evidence of other words. The Prime Minister is supposed to have been overheard and seen by some journalist. The Leader of the Opposition again is basing his attack on stolen documents and on keyhole observations. This is typical of the pettifogging trivia that are brought before this Parliament when we should be discussing serious issues. 
Let us get down to some serious issues. This motion recognises that racial prejudice and violence cannot be eliminated simply by passing a law or by some administrative act. At least it calls on the Government to take action to counter racial prejudice and violence. This, of course, the Government already has done very effectively. Under the present Government this country is one of the freest and safest in the world for citizens to walk in their streets. Those who have been around the world know this to be true. Indeed, it is also one of the countries which is freest from racial prejudice. I do not say there is none. Racial prejudice is something that is deep in the heart of private individuals and is not readily controllable by legislative or administrative act. I do not say there is no prejudice but I do say that Australia is one of the countries freest from racial prejudice. This again is partly by reason of the policies of this Government. I believe that we will continue to remain this way and will improve our record provided we do not actually set about importing into Australia those tensions and strains which have so sadly bedevilled many other countries and which it looks as though the Labor Part)' following the latest amendment to its platform, would encourage. 
Dealing firstly with the question of violence, in our form of society the thing which enables us to feel safe when we step outside our front gate - to feel that we will not be attacked - is that the vast bulk of our people have a respect for the law and a habit of obedience to it. We know that by and large people will observe the law. The police are there to apprehend people who break the rules and to bring them to justice. The existence of the police and their role of apprehension does, indeed, have some deterrent effect. But essentially the police force is not capable of preventing crime or violence occurring. If respect for the law and the habit of obedience are destroyed the strength of the police force could be multiplied many times and it still would be unable to protect us. 
What is happening in Australia is that there is a consistent attack on respect for the law and on all forms of authority. Honourable members know that this is so. Leading members of the Opposition have joined in this attack - indeed some of them have led the attack. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has urged people to take to the streets. He has urged them to disobey particular laws as a way  to  change those laws. He has been involved constantly in the technique of demonstration which, in order to obtain coverage in the media, has to produce some kind of sensation. So that we find demonstrators urging peaceful means with their mouths but in fact walking along the edge of violence. 
The Leader of the Opposition has joined in this attack on the very foundations of respect for law in our community. He has gone so far as to advocate publicly that soldiers receiving orders to go to Vietnam should disobey them. He has approved that offence which is euphemistically called draft dodging, and he espouses a Labor candidate for election to this Parliament who is commonly described as a draft dodger. Other members of the Labor Party follow a similar Une. Whether they are encouraging the rise of black, power or any of the other modern ways of combating the law and attacking respect for law and authority, it is a power outside the law which they are advocating. Let me warn al] honourable members of the Opposition that ultimate harvest of this attack by them on law and on authority will be loss of respect for the law - a growing belief in people that because the Leader of the Opposition and leading figures such as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr Cairns),  the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  or the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  are telling them so, they need not obey the law. If that view once becomes common, then I say God help this country. That is when we will see violence in Australia such as some other countries have experienced already, and no law and no administration could cope with it. 
The Government deplores and condemns ali criminal acts of violence carried out by minority groups regardless of the political objectives sought. We do not wish to import into this country old hatreds from another country. We disapprove acts of terrorism and intimidation in this community directed against another Government. But it is not always possible to prevent the offences or to catch the offenders. We have redoubled our efforts in this regard but it is primarily the responsibility of the State police, and particularly on the anniversary we have urged them to take preventive measures. This has been done. We have urged them to endeavour to apprehend those who are responsible for outrages but it is not always possible to have complete success in preventing these things occurring. 
One serious point of detail in this whole Croation affair is the role of the Opposition itself, in particular the honourable member for Lalor. I am informed that on about the 9th April he was on Channel 7 news where he publicly expressed the opinion that Croatians were responsible for the attacks and threats on members of the Yugoslav community, that the leader was a Catholic priest, Father Kasic, and that he was responsible because he had the backing of the Catholic hierarchy, who must accept moral responsibility for all that he does. This extraordinary attempt to lay violence at the door of the Catholic Church is made by the shadow Minister of the Australian Labor Party in this national Parliament. The Opposition, so far as I am aware, has never dissociated itself from his remarks. 
I pass now to the question of racial discrimination. Race and racism are prominent moral and international issues on which governments are increasingly called upon to take a position. The issues involve moral principles of equal justice for all regardless of race, and the rights of peoples to self-determination which are embodied in the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For our part, the Government is well aware of the resentment and frustration felt by the great majority of independent African countries, which constitute almost onethird of the United Nations membership, about the continued application of policies of racial discrimination and minority rule in southern Africa. The Prime Minister declared on 27th June last year that apartheid is a repugnant social and political philosophy. Among the members of the United Nations, regarding the position in Rhodesia, we are one of the most scrupulous in our observance of the Security Council resolutions imposing sanctions on that country. If members of the Opposition can find anybody who has been to Rhodesia and seen the goods on display for sale there, they will know that there are about 3 countries whose goods are not represented. We are one of the few members of the United Nations which has been scrupulous in its observance of the Security Council resolutions. There are exemptions possible on humanitarian grounds for the supply of food, for example, and it is true that we have sent wheat under that exemption which appears in the Security Council resolution itself. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  will be speaking in this debate. It is important, therefore, that we should emphasise that the policies of apartheid, racial discrimination and limited franchise being followed by certain governments in southern Africa find no support in Australia. On the contrary, the Government's policy is one of promoting an integrated Australian society looking towards political and racial equality for all, of supporting selfdetermination on the basis of majority rule, say for the people of Papua New Guinea, and of co-operating with the United Nations towards that end. As to the racism that is suggested, let me say that in February last year, as Minister for Education and Science, I was host and  chairman  of the Commonwealth Education Conference in Canberra. This was attended by delegations from the African member states of the Commonwealth, from India, Pakistan, Malaysia, Singapore, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Fiji and so on, together with Canada, New Zealand and Great Britain. They were here for a couple of weeks. I was their host md  chairman,  and some of them talked pretty freely to me. My experience is that these delegates almost universally had formed the view that not only are we not racists in Australia, but that we are one of the least racist countries that they have visited. This seemed to be something of a surprise to some of them because every time this kind of motion is launched by the Opposition, around the headlines of the world goes the suggestion from responsible people in Australia that we are racists, and then those who have not visited this country or studied our immigration laws get an impression. They come here with an impression that we are racist and it is only when they visit this country that they find we are not. 
That is going on again, and the damage that will be done by what has been asserted by the Opposition should not be underrated. Even a recent Ceylonese visitor, who has since returned to Ceylon, noted this fact to his surprise. He said that he found we were not a racist country. He said - he had not consulted the Government - that it was only the immigration laws that were racist. This is something that our own people tend to say, because in Ceylon  -  I have studied the immigration laws of Ceylon and other countries of the South East Asia area - I know that the immigration laws are a good deal harsher than are ours. A Tamil in India will find it much more difficult to get into Ceylon than it is to get into Australia. Here was a Ceylonese who had been sold by our own responsible leaders on this type of rubbish that is talked about our racist attitude. 
Responsible leaders of the Opposition. There is one danger that we have to face - we could become a racist country if we are not careful. We are not at the moment. If we have this constant harping, and the attempts to make the Aborigines feel racially and become a black power operation, if we have this rather pathetic 'embassy' cluttering up the area in front of Parliament House, and if we are to adopt the policy of the Labor Party Opposition which was adopted in Launceston, and people are simply to be admitted without regard to race, colour and so on, and if there is to be a change in our present policy, for heaven's sake let us look down the line. Do we want to import the tensions and the difficulties and the problems that have bedevilled other countries? We are free of them at present and I hope that we shall remain free of them. 
(2.58)  -  The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  expresses the opinion - on what information it is based, I do not know - that this invasion is not an effort for an all-out victory. Many reasons have been given for this. The first is that it is an attempt by the North Vietnamese to try to stop Vietnamisation of the South, because Vietnamisation is proceeding with too great a speed towards complete success, before it is too late for them to intervene. The second reason is to impress the allies of North Vietnam - 'the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China - of its capacity to strike at this time and to involve them, particularly at a time when the United States  President  is visiting the capitals of those 2 countries. 
The third reason - this is rather a cynical reason which pretty well everyone assigns to them - is to influence the people of the United States in their thinking in a presidential election year that the United States policy in Vietnam will fail. The fourth reason is that South Vietnam has been strengthening its security and improving the living standards of its people to such a remarkable degree that it is necessary for North Vietnam to strike now, or it will never be able to satisfy the people of South Vietnam. It would never even be able to govern them if it succeeded, for so far ahead of the North have the living standards in the South become that tfes 
South will not accept government according to the standards of the North. It is, therefore, the time factor that is concerning them, but I do not think that at this stage it is fruitful to enter into this discussion. It is too early. We remember what happened at the time of the last Tet offensive. A lot of assumptions were made and a lot of propaganda was issued. It is better to wait and see, because in this situation the possibilities are so many, so great and so fearful. 
How often have we heard it said that in foreign affairs and defence the policies and philosophies of the Labor Party and the Government are poles apart? Here is the Deputy Leader of the Opposition again, as he has so often attempted to do in recent days, saying: 'You are saying the same thing as I am saying9. The Leader of the Opposition while in America said: 'Really, Labor policy is very similar to that of the Government'. This is simply ridiculous. There is, in fact, very little we do agree upon in defence and foreign affairs issues. 
There has never been an issue that has set us further apart so starkly as has this Vietnam issue. The basic reason is that in all this time while we have been involved in Vietnam, while our troops have been fighting there, risking their lives - some of them, regrettably, giving their lives - in all this time that we have given our help to try to save these people who were struggling, even long before we or the Americans went there, to protect themselves against aggression from the north; in all this time the Labor Party has been barracking for the enemy. I cannot recall a single occasion when the Opposition has stood up for South Vietnam or has said one word in support of its cause. Yet the Opposition poses as the protector of the weak and underprivileged. Why is it that the Leader of the Opposition always puts Hanoi's point of view? Why has he constantly knocked the allied efforts in Vietnam? Even now it is said that we have put this on. Who started it? Who made a statement calling for a demonstration in support of the Vietcong? It was not we who did that. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  started it. Who moved the motion in the Victorian Labor Council which expressed support for North side of the House. The Opposition says that we started it, but we have had to respond and say what we think about these initiatives which have been commenced on the Opposition side on the left, because we believe the nation needs to know what should be thought of honourable members opposite and how far they represent the views of the Labor Party when put by that part of it which is dominant in its defence and foreign affairs matters. We now have the spectacle of resolutions being passed calling for support for the North at a time when our instructors are still there, when our aid personnel are still there, when Australians are in danger supporting their friends and allies. Here the Opposition is calling for support for the enemies responsible for this aggression against those friends and allies. 
One might say: 'Well, what the Opposition says or does is not very effective. It does not have the force of government. Is there any harm in it?' Perhaps we should remain silent to satisfy the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. But this sort of activity on the part of the Labor Party does, in fact, do very great harm. The harm is that its propaganda and persistent agitation in support of North Vietnam's aggression has the effect of giving encouragement to the communist forces. This goes around the world in headlines as Australia's view. This does immense harm, and we would be recreant to our trust if we did not rise up and deplore it and condemn it in this Parliament. All of this propaganda is directed towards weakening support for those who are defending themselves, towards weakening the civil will of the people of America and towards weakening the civil will of the people of Australia. 
It has in fact had a telling effect but I hope not a decisive effect upon the course of this war. The Leader of the Opposition has said that he does not support a military solution to this problem and that he wants a political solution. He condemns a military solution. That sounds good until one sees what he means by it. The Leader of the Opposition means by a political solution that we should accept the  7-point  proposals of the North Vietnamese. 
He came to Parramatta in my electorate recently. He is spending a great deal of time there and has even gone up the Parramatta River when he would have been much better off on the Georges River in his own electorate where the pollution would be very great. He attended a meeting at the Parramatta Town Hall and will be visiting there one evening this week. In addition he will be attending an Anzac Day ceremony for the first time in history as far as I know in my electorate. The Leader of the Opposition has made great play of the fact that he sent a telegram to the Prime Minister from Peking. He said this would have prevented all the fighting. The North Vietnamese 7-point plan was the king hit to prevent all the fighting in Vietnam. He said: 
One of the last things that I tried to do about Vietnam was when I was in Peking. I sent a cable to  Mr McMahon  saying that North Vietnam's 7-point proposals were genuine - they afforded the Americans an honourable outlet for their participation in Vietnam. I sent that to him. 1 sent it from China. It would almost certainly have been read by the authorities there before it left the country. 
That is an oblique acknowledgement of the kind of society that exists there. He continued: 
All the thanks I get from  Mr McMahon  were, to use his own words, 'that I was putting the case for the enemy'. 
He then went off at a tangent but came back and said: 
For the very first time in the protracted hostilities in Vietnam the Chinese Government had endorsed the proposal made by Hanoi. The first time they had ever done it- 
The Chinese, that is - the clearest indication that the proposal was a substantial and genuine one, one which would be seen through, that the people sponsoring it would in fact see it through, they would back it. 
That is his solution. But when one looks at the plan he is putting - he seems to be proud of it - it involves the dismantling of the entire Administration in Saigon, the disbanding of the army and then the provisional revolutionary government - that is, the Vietcong - is to make arrangements for a government of national concord which would then hold elections. I would like to see the government of national concord after that. If that is not surrender and if that is not giving more than they could achieve by a military victory I do not know what is. After all they would get the cities undamaged in this proposal. The Leader of the Opposition agrees with this. He thinks it is very good stuff. He knows that this proposal would give the North Vietnamese more than a military victory would give them. It would mean simply that we would be joining our enemies to destroy our friends. Maybe it would stop the fighting and we could have avoided the killing. But so would killing have been avoided if the United Kingdom Government had invited Hitler over to take control of the United Kingdom Government during the last war. That would have stopped the fighting too. This is the type of proposal the Leader of the Opposition has in mind when he calls for a political solution. This is what he sent down with his own imprimatur on it. This is ridiculous. 
When  President  Nixon called for a cease fire and the withdrawal of American troops on terms that free elections would be held under international supervision, that  President  Thieu would resign in order that this might be done and that the United States would support no candidate and would remain strictly neutral, that would have been a political settlement. It would have been an honourable one. But do we hear anything on thai from the Leader of the Opposition? No. There is dead silence, lt would have been an honourable plan calling for international supervision of elections and the resignation of  President  Thieu but would not have involved the handing over of the government to the enemy. The Leader of the Opposition would not have a bar of it. He would not support it. 
There is one rather extraordinary feature about this. In the House on 18th April 1972 in an earlier debate recorded on page 1694 of Hansard the Leader of the Opposition berated the Government for its silence and acquiescence on the role of the Soviet Union. He said: 
Russia, much more than China, has been responsible for supplying the means of war to Hanoi. Why this silence? 
The attitude of the Opposition throughout this war has been that it is a civil war and that it is not really a war at all. The Government has been saying consistently that it is a war of aggression supported by Russia and China and we have been condemning this. Yet here, is the Leader of the Opposition berating the Government for not condemning Russia. This is a change of face. He is now saying that it is aggression from the north and that the Government is tardy in condemning Russia for supporting this aggression. What a turnabout, what an about-face! 
You heard my answer to that in the House yesterday. A couple of days ago the Leader of the Opposition said that Vietnamisation was to prepare South Vietnam for the day that it would confront the armies of Hanoi en masse'. He implies that this is a bad thing to do and that we should not help them. He knows that the challenge to them will come just the same. North Vietnam has brought the war and the division of the, people not only to South Vietnam but also to Laos and Cambodia and perhaps its aim is to obtain hegemony in Indo-China. The North Vietnamese are prepared to get their way at the cost of the. well being of their own people as well as that of their neighbours. The only alternative to giving in which is open to the peoples in those countries is to resist. The most telling thing in favour of this is the length of time that the people of South Vietnam have, been prepared to shed their blood in defence of their country even before any allies went to their assistance, the way in which they are still prepared to do so and the way in which there is no support in the country rising up to oust the administration in Saigon. The South Vietnamese may well be defeated and I think it would be a tragedy if the South were, defeated. But anything can happen in war, particularly when there is this colossal support of over $ 1,000m worth of equipment from Russia aiding the North Vietnamese in their attack. Anything could happen. South Vietnam could go under but it would be tragedy if it did. The desire for national independence, the staunch expression of that desire, has enabled other non-communist countries in the region to become stronger, more stable and resilient and it has been Australia's interest to help South Vietnam to survive. This has also been in the interests of its neighbours further to the south. But the burdens of collective security unfortunately are falling harder on some than on others and the people of the Republic of Vietnam have had more than their fair share to bear. 
I have received a cabled request for assistance. The information before me indicates that the number of men, women and children fleeing from the invading forces now exceeds 250,000. The fact also appears in the reports coming to me that, with the massive support of Russia and the support of China, North Vietnam is making an all out effort. Indeed, the latest reports indicate that North Vietnam is throwing 15 to 17 year old boys into the fighting in South Vietnam. The request for assistance which I have received relates to shelter for refugees and for ambulances. We have shelter materials available. We are currently examining what type of shelter would be suitable, and there should be no difficulty in air freighting this promptly. We also have 12 ambulances available, and we are urgently examining means of getting these ambulances to their assistance. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
-I am not in  a  position to answer the detail of the honourable gentleman's question. However, I will inquire into the matter and advise him of the answer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer given to the first part of Question No. 5193 on 11th April 1972 (Hansard, page 1462) also applies to this question. 
No, I have not received any suggestions or representations from the Australian Labor Party that we should protest against the tests in China. As the House will know, there has been published recently by the Institute of Strategic Studies an assessment of the progress at present being made with the nuclear programme in the People's Republic of China, both as to the intercontinental ballistic missiles and the movement into nuclear submarines. No doubt honourable members will have an opportunity to get a copy of that study for themselves. 
by leave - I propose in this statement to outline the changing environment in which the Australian Government is formulating its foreign policies. I will also report on some of the initiatives taken in recent months, and on the Government's policies in some situations of current importance to us. 
en - The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4) An inquiry has been conducted by the Australian Capital Territory Police, since the incident appeared to involve breaches of Territory law. The Commonwealth Police have assisted 'with the inquiry. The inquiry has covered all sources of information so far available. The inquiry has not been able to establish the identity of the person or persons reported to have intruded into the grounds of the Prime Minister's Lodge or to have fired a shot. 
(6) and (7) Commonwealth Police Officers concerned were interviewed by the officers in charge of the inquiry, as part of the normal process of investigation into the incident. The investigation did not  disclose any ground for taking disciplinary or other punitive action against the Commonwealth Police Officers on duty at the time. 
I think that the position is fully covered in the above answers to the honourable member's questions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There was no reduction in the normal number of positions in the China/ Korea Section, but for a period of some days recently only. 2 officers were actually working in the Section. 
This situation arose because of the resignation of the research officer, the temporary absence overseas of the China desk officer, and a short gap which occurred during a routine .transfer of duties from one officer to another" 
and (4) The structure of the Section and details of the officers occupying the positions at present are as follows: 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(2) and (3) The security .-measures taken have been designed to ensure that there is adequate security at the Prime Minister's Lodge at all times. It is not proposed to disclose details of what these measures are, beyond saying that the police guard has been strengthened and that additional communications and other equipment are being installed. The cost of the additional police guard is approximately $670 per week. The first stage of the communications equipment, ultimately intended to serve not only the Lodge, but other Commonwealth Police purposes in the Australian Capital Territory, is estimated to cost $13,000. It is not appropriate to disclose details of other equipment to be installed or of its estimated cost. . 
Not at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume the report referred to is the article -by Jack Foisie written in Pakse and published in The Australian' on 18th January 1972. I do not accept the descriptions of conditions in Laos given by  Mr Foisie  or quoted 'by him. In particular I reject the assertion that difficulties facing the Laotian armed forces 'can be ' explained only in terms of the divisiveness and immorality in Laos'. The article overlooks the fact that Laos has been invaded by a ruthless and powerful neighbour which, in pursuit of its own ambitions, has disregarded Laotian attempts to live in peace and neutrality. 
and (3) The Royal Laotian Government has at no time requested the despatch of Australian forces to Laos or the provision of arms or military equipment from Australia. Australia has from time to time provided military training in Australia to Royal Laotian Army personnel. Eighteen such personnel have received training in Australia over the past 11 years. The most recent training (6 officers at the Jungle Training Centre, Canungra) stems from a request for assistance in jungle warfare training made to the Government by the Laotian Delegate for Defence,  Mr Sisouk  Na Champassak, during the course of his visit to Australia in September 1970. Requests for military training, particularly in jungle warfare, are received from many friendly countries, and Australia is pleased to assist with places when these can be provided. 
Between 30th June 1961 and 30th June 1971 Australia gave civil aid to the value of $6,453,700 to Laos. Over half of this comprised contributions to the Foreign Exchange Operations Fund (FEOF) which was established in 1964 as a measure to help stabilise the Laotian economy. Project aid to Laos has included inter alia the provision of equipment to Laotian National Radio, assistance with a livestock development project,  5  gifts of primary school supplies and assistance with teacher training. Currently the main programmes are the Laos-Australian Reafforestation Project and the establishment of a ForestryRanger School in Vientiane. Australia has also contributed $A552,000 to the Nam Ngum Dam Project, which is administered by the World Bank. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While proposals for the formation of an Asian-Pacific Economic Community have been followed with close attention by interested departments, the Government has not contemplated any initiative with regard to the formation of such a Community. The Government's view is that the present interests of Australia and the countries of the Asian-Pacific area are better served by multilateral initiatives aimed at the expansion and liberalisation of world trade rather than through the creation of separate economic blocs which would result in the fragmentation of the present international trading system. However the Government sees a need for continuing analysis of its present and future economic relations among Pacific nations and recently I announced that the Government would contribute towards the cost of a joint project by Australian and Japanese academic economists for co-ordinated research on the Western Pacific economy, including the potential for growth and trade in the Western Pacific region and on the role of the major Western Pacific countries in the international economy. 
In the normal course there have been discussions, both bilateral and in multilateral forums, relating to matters of regional economic interests although such discussions have not been directed specifically towards the formation of an AsianPacific Economic Community. Australia is of course willing to consider any, concrete proposals that may be made. 
Within the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East (ECAFE), the main forum for economic consultations among countries of the Asian and Pacific region, Australia, with other member countries, has taken and will continue to take an active part in the study and discussion of proposals for regional economic co-operation in various fields. A particular Australian initiative of benefit to the developing countries in ECAFE though the scheme is a global one, has been our scheme of tariff preference for - less developed countries. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has been engaged in recent months in a comprehensive review of the restrictive trade practices legislation and hopes to be able shortly to announce its proposals for further legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Convention was opened for signature in London, Washington and Moscow on 10th April 1972. In London the following 49 countries signed the Convention: 
There has been a proposal that some wheat might be sold to Bangladesh, with payments to be made over a very long term and interest at low rates, and that this might be part of our aid programme. This proposal has been considered. It has not been agreed to for the following reasons: The Australian Government in its aid programmes has consistently taken the view that it should give aid without strings. It has found that the experience of other countries which have insisted on repayment, even on low terms but requiring interest payment, is that they get into the role of a creditor having to chase for money a country which they are wanting to help. 
The honourable member has asked his question. 1. do not know whether he wants a reply. We have considered again and again in relation to our aid programmes whether we should follow a course which some other countries have followed but which they have found has led to great ill-will when, in the role of a creditor, they have to try to collect money and interest on the money for food or other relief which really the donor country intended to be humanitarian aid. In this situation, what we are considering is the gift to Bangladesh of food, wheat, shelter and medical supplies. That is the way in which we have been handling aid to Bangladesh. Purchasing wheat on a commercial basis is a different matter altogether. It is not handled by my Department; it is handled by the Department of Trade and Industry. If any country wants to purchase wheat on a commercial basis, Australia by and large, when it has the wheat available, is in the market to sell it. But we do not want to confuse these 2 roles. Our role in giving aid to Bangladesh has been second to none around the world. We have been there more promptly and more effectively on the ground than have other countries at all comparable with us in resources. 
Honourable members will recall that the bilateral talks between the United States of America and the North Vietnamese started in Paris in, I think, May 1968. There was then a movement to bring the South Vietnamese Government and the Vietcong to the talks. A good deal of difficulty occurred about the seating arrangements, but in January 1969 the Vietcong and the South Vietnamese Government joined the talks. Regular meetings were held about once a week, but at various times there were interruptions to them. The talks did not always continue with complete regularity. At the same time private talks were held. 
The honourable member asked what had been achieved by these talks. One can sum it up by saying that each side set out its position, not once but many times, but that in substance no progress towards agreement was achieved. At the present time the talks are not continuing. They have been ended. They might arise again if there were some change in circumstances and the prospects of a negotiated peace looked somewhat rosier than they do at the present time. However, the machinery under which the talks were being held is being left there just in case it is possible to make some further movement towards peace. As honourable members will know, the intention of the South Vietnamese and the United States has been a just and peaceful settlement of the matter. The last offer made, of elections supervised internationally with the prior resignation of  President  Thieu, was a pretty reasonable offer but it has been rejected completely. 
Dealing with the last part of the honourable gentlemen's question first, the Australian Government and, 1 believe, the Australian people understand and support the action which the United States has had to take. Certainly, the Government has announced its support and I believe that the vast majority of the Australian people understand and support this action. One might compare the situation in Vietnam to a thug attacking a victim in the street with some fairly powerful accomplices helping him and the victim attempting to defend himself and one or two friends coming to his assistance. We have the extraordinary spectacle of the victim who is defending himself and those who are helping him being described as the aggressors. This is double talk; an example of double thinking. The fact is that to this point no-one has ever tried to invade North Vietnam or take its territory. In fact, the invasion clearly is with armed forces from the north. Such an invasion must provoke an attempt to defend. The reaction here reveals 2 stands in the thinking of the Opposition and the left wing of the Labor Party. (Opposition members interjecting) - 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I conclude by saying that in the view of the Government the ANZUS Treaty is as vital today in the difficult circumstances in which we, in the 1970s, live as it was at any time since it was brought into operation. 
As the Leader of the Opposition will know, Prince Sihanouk was removed by constitutional means, and constitutional authority was established in Cambodia. This, therefore, is the government of another country with which we are dealing. We do not normally attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of another country. If a country is attacked, as Cambodia has been, we can endeavour to assist it to maintain its freedom and its own form of government at its invitation. We do not poke our nose into every individual matter where it might be said that the legal processes are not those which we would accept or may be those which we would accept. 
However, I will look at the matter which the honourable gentleman raised and if it involves any international factors which would make it other than a domestic matter I will let him have further information on the subject. I close by commenting that it is remarkable that this royal family that the honourable member speaks of has as its main supporter in the world at present the People's Republic of China. 
As the honourable and learned Leader of the Opposition has pointed out, although at one time I had some personal control over this matter, at present I do not have any responsibility for it and I will have to refer his question to my colleague in another place. 
Following on the last question and my mention of the law to the honourable gentleman who asked the question, I had a preliminary look at this matter. I have not completed my inquiries, and when I do I will advise the Leader of the Opposition. 
I have had quite a number of deputations on this subject, some from members of the Opposition. We deplore the fact that there is a division in the church but there is little that the Australian Government can do about this in Australia. One of the consequences of this division is that although the Greek Government recognises marriages performed only by that section of the church which it recognises as the established church, in Australia we recognise marriages performed by both sections when the celebrants are registered under our Marriage Act. It is true that when persons whose marriages were not performed by the section of the church recognised by the Greek Government return to Greece they find that their marriages are not recognised. The way in which the Greek Government administers its own law is. of course, an internal and domestic matter for that Government. On the other hand, following upon deputations to me I have taken steps to consult our ambasador in Athens for further advice on this matter. 1 will be considering what arises out of that consultation. At present no definitive action is proposed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 18th February 1971, announcements (on the date shown below) have been made on the establishment of diplomatic relations between the following countries and the People's Republic of China: 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. The meeting was a meeting of State Attorneys-General called by the States. 
It would seem that the States are agreed that there is a need for Constitutional reform. 
, (5) and (6) As the Prime Minister announced on 7th May 1972, all Parties represented in the Commonwealth Parliament have agreed to participate in the proposed Convention. The nature of the representation will be the subject of later decision. 
I have read a newspaper report which states that a  Mr Ken  McLeod of the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament has received an invitation from North Vietnam to visit that country. It is perhaps not unexpected, seeing that the honourable member for Lalor has invited representatives from Hanoi to attend one of his demonstrations. In addition, of course, one sees the attitude to this war which was revealed in the bitter attack on America and American action contained in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition last Tuesday evening. This attack on behalf of the Australian Labor Party on the actions of the United States and that country's attempt to defend its ally against this blatant invasion, might well suggest to the 
Government of North Vietnam that it would have considerable support in Australia for its actions and might well lead  Mr Ken  McLeod to think that he too would have the support of the Australian Labor Party if he was able to make a visit in order to give that country aid and comfort. 
There was one part of the question, I think, which referred to  Mr McLeod  perhaps endeavouring to persuade North Vietnam to desist from its invasion. Although I speak only from recollection from the time when 1 was Attorney-General, I should perhaps warn  Mr McLeod  that there was then a law in force in North Vietnam that propagandising in concert against the policy of the Government is punishable by death. Therefore, perhaps he ought to be careful in adopting any attitude while in North Vietnam in which he would be critical of the actions of that Government. 
Finally, may I say at a more serious level that I think most Australian people believe that this is a blatant invasion from the north against which the South Vietnamese are defending themselves very courageously. There are still some Australians in that country. Again, I think that the majority of Australians would regard this proposed visit as disgraceful. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Justices of the High Court have not sat in Australia as members of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. 
Visits have been made to London by the following Justices of the High Court to sit on the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council: 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
See  answer to  question No. 5480. 
Pre-school Age Children  (Question No. 5699) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The review of the terms of Australia's acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, mentioned in my predecessor's answers to the honourable member's previous questions, has been concluded. It is not proposed to vary these terms at the present time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
A draft treaty to replace the existing treaty has been negotiated with the United Stales of America. 
A draft treaty has been negotiated with Sweden. Negotiations between officials are proceeding with the Republic of Ireland and with Turkey. 
Telecommunications Conventions in Western Pacific  (Question No. 5516) 
The Attorney General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It has still not been possible to allot to the task of the general revision of the Acts Interpretation Act the priority necessary to enable progress to be made with it. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The matter is still under consideration. No specific proposals for amendment of the Act have yet been formulated. 
I have seen the resolution of the police, and I think all members of Parliament would appreciate the call that is made on them to assist in the maintenance of law and order and to assist the police in this regard. This matter goes wider than the demonstrations themselves. There seems to be a tendency to attack police, particularly at demonstrations. One has evidence that provocative actions are. planned both by the use of obscene language to policemen and by kicking them on the ankle. When the police react they are photographed and the heading is always 'Police Brutality*. This is a technique which is taught and preached at gatherings to get the police accused of brutality. I think that anyone who upholds our system of parliamentary democracy, under which the Parliament passes our laws and the police, under ministerial control, see that those laws are carried out, has a vested interest because of his own security and safety to see that every support is given to the police. I believe that this also applies to other members of the community who have this interest in a safe, orderly community. Demonstrations can be of various types, but we all know that something sensational must occur in a demonstration if it is to receive coverage by the media or headlines on the earlier pages of newspapers. So, there is a tendency when demonstrations are organised for some form of violence to occur. This is not always advocated by those who are organising the demonstration. Indeed, quite the reverse applies. Very often with their mouths they preach peace, but in the demonstration they walk always along the edge of violence. 
-I understand the concern of the honourable member with this subject. There is considerable concern in the legal profession about the cost of divorce and there has been a good deal of consultation between judges and the profession on that subject. However, it is a very complex subject and a great deal of detail is required to answer the question that has been asked. Therefore I will refer it to my colleague the Attorney-General in another place. 
by leave - In my statement on Foreign Affairs to the House on 9th May I touched briefly on the increasing attention the Government is paying to the South Pacific. I spoke of our commitment to South Pacific regionalism and of our common membership with New Zealand of the South Pacific Forum established by the independent and selfgoverning South Pacific islands. I outlined some aspects of our interest in this part of the world, including my own visit to Fiji, Nauru, Tonga and Western Samoa, and mentioned our pleasure that the Prime Minister of Fiji will be paying an official visit to Australia from 22nd May. The South Pacific is remote from the major world centres. The 5 independent countries of the region are small in terms of territory and population and are geographically isolated. They are, however, close neighbours of Australia. In so far as they may wish to turn to us for assistance in meeting the many problems which confront them as emerging nations, we would wish to respond to the best of our ability. We arc presently engaged in consultation with the governments concerned to pinpoint areas in which we can be of help. 
Our assistance programmes for the South Pacific have been growing rapidly. In 1965-66 the total value of all our aid, including our contribution to the South Pacific Commission, was $350,000. During the present financial year we expect the total to exceed $2m for the first time. In keeping with its growing interest in cooperating in the economic development of the area and concern for the welfare of the people of the region, the Government has now decided to make further increases in its economic and technical aid. We have also decided to strengthen the planning of our programme on a longer term basis. We see considerable merit in approaching our aid programme for a region such as this not as a day-to-day or year-to-year affair but as a long term commitment. This has practical value for the countries concerned because it enables them to draw up their own forward programmes and priorities in the certain knowledge of the level of support which will be forthcoming from Australia. 
I now wish to inform the House that the Government has decided to commit a total of $15m in assistance to the South Pacific region over the period beginning July this year until the end of the calendar year 1975. This period coincides with Fiji's current development plan which will run until the end of 1975. Fiji is the largest country in the area and has been the principal recipient of Australian aid. But we have also made significant contributions over the years to British Solomon Islands Protectorate, Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony, New Hebrides, Tonga and Western Samoa and have progressively extended our offers of assistance. 
While Fiji will continue to receive a substantial part of our aid in our forward planning, we have very much in mind also the needs of other countries of the South West Pacific. I want to stress that there will be an increase in Australian assistance to all these Pacific countries. The development problems of the different countries are diverse. The Government will draw up its programmes to ensure that the maximum benefit will be derived from the increased flow of assistance. This outline for forward planning and our intention to provide $15m in assistance for the South Pacific over the next 3 years will consolidate and extend the activities under our different programmes. We provide bilateral aid to the South Pacific countries under the South Pacific Aid Programme administered by my Department and under the scheme for Commonwealth Co-operation in Education administered by my colleague the Minister for Education and Science. We assist the region as a whole through our contributions to the South Pacific Commission and by taking an active role in directing the attention of the international aid institutions to the needs of the Pacific. Food aid is also given to Fiji under the Food Aid Convention. 
The main increases involved in the $15m will fall within the South Pacific aid programme. This programme has almost doubled in 1971-72 to bring it to $lm. We expect the average rate of increase to be 50 per cent a year over the next 3 years, which would bring the allocation for 1974- 75 to over $3m. We expect that our aid will continue to offer support for economic development programmes and projects, for the supply of experts, for technical assistance, including arrangements specially designed to meet training needs in the area as well as the provision of formal academic training. There will also be smaller increases in our expenditure on the Commonwealth Co-operation in Education scheme and in our contribution to the South Pacific Commission. We expect that food aid in the form of flour and sharps valued at over S 600,000 annually will continue to flow to Fiji. 
The announcement of this forward commitment is a practical demonstration of the Government's view that it is in Australia's long term interest to adopt policies which will help to further the economic and social progress of our neighbours in the South Pacific. It is a recognition of the special importance of the countries of this region to Australia. It is an earnest of our determination to make a positive and enduring contribution to their development. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The International Telecommunications Convention drawn up at Geneva on 21st December 1959. 
The Agreement establishing Interim Arrangements for a Global Commercial Communications Satellite System (INTELSAT) drawn up at Washington on 10th August 1964. (This Agreement will be replaced by the INTELSAT agreements of 20th August 1971 which are expected to enter into force shortly.) 
The Agreement revising the CommonwealthUnited States Telecommunications Agreement of 4th December 1945 drawn up at London on 12th August 1949. 
The Republic of China is a party to agreements 1 (a) and 1 (b). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no conferences of Ministers of State under the Australia-New Zealand Agreement 1944 since the answer by the then Minister for External Affairs on 8th November 1962. There have, however, been many Ministerial meetings and visits by individual members of both Governments at which matters of substance and mutual interest have been discussed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 1 3th September 1971 in answer to question No. 3669 1referred to discussions the 
Prime Minister had with the Premier and Deputy Premier of Queensland about the legislation concerning Aborigines in the State of Queensland and I said that broad agreement was reached on the nature of changes which should be made in the legislation. My reply continued that the matter of changes in the legislation was briefly discussed at meetings of Commonwealth and State officials and Ministers in Cairns on 21st and 23rd April 1971. 
Yes. 
Please see my answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two Papua New Guineans attended the 1970 Foreign Service Training Course in Canberra, and undertook further practical training. 
Two Papua New Guinean officers of the Department of the Administrator have attended the first 1972 Foreign Service Training Course and are about toundertake a period of on the job training in the Department of Foreign Affairs and at Australian Missions abroad. 
Five more Papua New Guinean officers of the Department or the Administrator will attend the second 1972 Course which begins this month (May). It is proposed that at the conclusion of the Course they also undertake practical training in Canberra and abroad. 
A senior officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs has been in Port Moresby since January 1972, helping the Administration develop the necessary organisation to enable an independent Papua New Guinea to handle its foreign relations. He is also assisting with the training of local officers in the Foreign Affairs field. 
In New York last year I had lengthy discussions with  Sir Alex  Douglas-Home, the English Foreign Minister. On this issue of China and Vietnam the policies of Australia and the United Kingdom have diverged very considerably. We both understand the position of each other's country. I would have thought the Leader of the Opposition would be putting a question to me asking why we did not take action when North Vietnam invaded South Vietnam rather than why we did not take action against our allies when the Americans, in defence of their ally, had laid mines outside Haiphong harbour. I would have thought he would be concerned to ask me to take the initiative at a much earlier time when South Vietnam was endeavouring to defend itself so that it could have its own form of democratic government and when from the north it had an invasion of regiments of a regular army seeking to control it by force. I am not prepared to take the initiative he suggests at this time. I conclude by commenting that one does not see the people of South Vietnam rushing north to their socalled liberators. On the contrary, these unfortunate men, women and children are fleeing southwards. 
OVERSEAS STUDENTS  Mr GRAHAM-  Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports of a survey conducted by the Overseas Students Service at a Victorian university in which it is alleged that many Asian students in Australia have personal and welfare problems and nobody with whom these problems may be discussed? Is there any substance in this allegation and can the Minister put the facts before the House? 
-I have seen the report in the Press of a survey said to have been done by the Overseas Students Service which operates under the Australian Union of Students. I suppose when one has any very large number of students gathered together one will find that some of them have what are described as welfare problems. This would be so with Australian students and I have no reason to doubt that it is so with overseas students. Having said that I should say that the results of this survey, if they were correctly reported in the Press, are totally misleading. 
I understand that it is a survey taken of a sample of approximately 200 students at the University of Melbourne. There are in fact 10,000 overseas private students and 1,700 sponsored overseas students in Australia. This particular sample, from what is said in the survey, could hardly be representative, because the Overseas Students Service itself, supported by Government funds, is one of the bodies that is supposed to give welfare counselling to students. There are other private organisations which do so. My department has a welfare officer to look after the needs of overseas students in every State of the Commonwealth. In addition to that it has a special professional counselling service in Sydney and in Melbourne, and the number of students who have consulted the Service in Sydney alone in the last 9 months exceeds, by a substantial figure, the number taken as a sample in the survey. 
I believe that the speeches made in this debate have highlighted the issues of national policy which are raised in this Bill. I think all honourable members will agree that the speeches have been pitched at a high level. I would like to assure those who have spoken in this debate that what they have said today will be given the most careful attention by the Government. I hope, too, that what has been said here today will be read and given the most careful attention by those in the State governments who have responsibility in this field. The issue which this Bill raises is whether sovereignty in respect of the territorial sea, the air space above that sea, and the bed and the subsoil of the territorial sea, resides in the Commonwealth or in the respective States. I believe that all honourable members would agree that this issue is of great constitutional and national significance. It is a question of great significance to the Commonwealth Parliament, but it is also, of course, a question of great significance for each of the State governments of Australia. The question raised here today is not whether it is desirable that the issue should be resolved - I think that at least we, in this House, would find general agreement on that question - but rather the manner in which this issue should be resolved. 
Since this Bill was introduced in April 1970 a number of events has occurred. I should like to mention two. Firstly, the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources has made a lengthy report on the off-shore petroleum legislation. In this report it has canvassed the question of sovereignty over the territorial sea and raised various policy issues as to that particular question. The second thing which has occurred is that arrangements have been put in train for the holding of an international conference on the law of the sea in 1973. This conference will deal with the breadth of the territorial sea. There is no common agreement amongst the nations at the present time as to the width of the territorial sea; some claim 3 miles, some 12 miles, and some 200 miles. The probability, on present indications, is that they will decide on a width of 12 miles. At present Australia claims a 3-mile territorial sea. This has placed additional importance on this question because in Australia we would not wish to have one jurisdiction out to the 3-mile limit and another set of laws for a ship that sailed beyond the 3-mile limit, in the intervening 9 miles out to the 12-mile limit. Not only those in the Commonwealth Parliament concerned with this matter, but also those in the State parliaments concerned with it are conscious of the problems and the concentration of the problems raised by this impending international conference. The extension of the territorial sea from 3 miles to 12 miles lends greater importance to the question of what government may be responsible, for example, for undertaking to cure oil spillage. What government is responsible for bearing the burden of cost, if it is not recovered from private individuals, of repairing pollution damage - oil spillage or other pollution - in this greatly extended territorial sea? 
In addition, this international conference will deal with the question of the extent of the continental shelf and the extent of the fisheries jurisdiction. Already there have been several international meetings in preparation for the conference. The last preparatory committee concluded its deliberations on 31st March this year. The next preparatory committee meeting is to commence on 10th July and to extend into August. At these preparatory meetings the Commonwealth has been represented, I believe, by a strong delegation on each occasion and it has taken an active part in canvassing the various possibilities which might receive sufficient general assent amongst the international community to have the chance of being embodied in a convention, which would obtain general assent. Because the next preparatory meeting is listed for 10th July the question arises of consulting with the States before this date. This, of course, is before the next Budget sitting. When this international conference was suggested, the Premiers of the States wrote to the Commonwealth Parliament expressing their interest in being consulted on the decisions which would be taken at this conference. In response to this, the Commonwealth Parliament has adopted the attitude that there is only one government that can represent Australia among the nations of the world, that is the Commonwealth Government. However, we have put it to the States that in formulating proposals to present on behalf of this single nation in the councils of the world on the law of the sea we would, nevertheless, be prepared to consult with them beforehand and listen to their views. 
On receipt of the report of the Senate Committee the Prime Minister, on 8th 
March, wrote to the State Premiers forwarding them a copy of the Senate Committee's report and suggesting that the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General should consider it at its next meeting, which has been done, and that the Australian Minerals Council, which comprises the Commonwealth Minister for National Development and the various State Ministers for Mines, should consider it at its next meeting which, 1 think, is planned for about 31st May. When the AttorneysGeneral considered this matter, including the question of the territorial sea, they decided that it should be put under study by officers from the States and the Commonwealth. The time set for that meeting of officers is 19th and 20th June. 
Regarding the width of the territorial sea and related matters, which include the matters covered by this Bill, the Prime Minister Wrote to the Premiers, also on 8th March, a separate letter offering this type of consultation with them before the Commonwealth put the national views on which I have already spoken. In that letter he said, in effect, that when he received the report of our delegation to the last preparatory committee, which concluded on 31st March, he would forward a copy of it to the Premiers so that they could study what had happened at the preparatory committee meeting. He said he would hope that they would then agree to an early meeting of State and Commonwealth officers to be followed, at the soonest convenient time, by a meeting of State and Commonwealth ministerial representatives. What has occurred is that the delegation has returned and submitted its report. Copies of the report have been sent to the Premiers under a covering letter of 3rd May from the Prime Minister requesting them to agree to this early meeting of officials to be followed by a ministerial meeting. Present indications are that this will be combined with the meeting already arranged for 19th and 20th June - a time said to be convenient for State legal officers. Although certain of the States have indicated agreement to this procedure a ministerial meeting after that time still has to be arranged. 
In the light of this it is, I suggest, only sensible and wise that we should not bring this Bill to a vote now. I do not resist the suggestion that in the light of what happens in our consultations with the States we should again consider this matter during the life of this Parliament to see whether, according to the reactions of the States, any further action should be taken by this Parliament. Without canvassing all the individual matters that have been raised by honourable members in speaking to this subject, may I mention one or two of them? In the speeches of several honourable members has been a suggestion, or a kind of implication, that in some way the Commonwealth has been seriously embarrassed internationally in not having this matter resolved. 
We are not the only country which has not resolved it. However, I do not think I should bother with that proposition. I point out that every federation which attends an international conference always has the problem - whether it is dealing with laws concerning discrimination on the ground of race, whether it is dealing with an International Labour Organisation Convention, or some other matter - that when it gets home the States will have to implement part of what it has agreed to. It does not have the whole legislative competence in the field in which it is negotiating internationally. Everyone who has represented Australia at an international conference understands this. No-one who has attended an international conference on behalf of Australia has felt unduly limited by that fact. I do not say it has no effect or limitation on what he does. Of course it does, if he knows that the States are not agreeable to something that he wants to propose and which would require their agreement to implement. It has that residual effect on his attitude, but it does not mean that he does not have full powers as a plenipotentiary dealing on behalf of the Australian nation to enter into conventions at the international level. If this suggestion is being made, I want to clear it away. So generally is this recognised that many federations attending international conferences seek the inclusion of what is known as the federal clause in international conventions. This clause contains stipulations about the coming into force of such conventions, in their case dependent upon the action of provinces or states within their own territories. The international community is not particularly keen on inserting the federal clause in international conventions, but it is in some conventions, particularly in some of the ILO conventions. It does not inhibit a nation from negotiating a convention. It has not, in fact, inhibited the Australian delegation of preparatory conferences for the 1973 international conference. 
Another, perhaps smaller, matter was the suggestion yesterday that perhaps offshore oil leases were of doubtful validity. I will not spend much time on this except to say that it is unwise to throw doubt on titles, particularly if that doubt is not justified. The titles are, of course, valid and sound, but they are so because the States and the Commonwealth have combined to place behind them their power in concert. I just place that on record so that there will not be any difficulty with regard to the suggestion which was raised yesterday. 
I turn to the negotiations with the States, this Bill may not be the only mode of determining this question. It will probably be necessary to move some amendment to this Bill if it is decided to approach this problem in this way. Clause 11, in particular, comes to mind as one clause that would need to be looked at in the light of the Louisiana case in 1969 in the United States. In discussions between the Commonwealth and the States in regard to what action may be taken the States will at least have an opportunity of first consulting us and there will be an opportunity for discussion about modality. The Government thinks that is the proper way to proceed and it proposes to follow that course. At the end of the day and before this Parliament rises we shall come back here with the results of those negotiations. 
In closing I can only repeat what the Prime Minister said yesterday, that the discussions have been initiated on a ministerial basis and on a Prime Minister to Premier basis; they are being pushed ahead as quickly as we can do so and this is being done in an endeavour to bring them to finality as quickly as possible. 
Motion (by  Dr Solomon)  put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
At this last moment and after the vote has been taken on the motion for the adjournment of the debate on the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill we find that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  have tried to re-open the matter again. However, the Australian Labor Party suffered a resounding defeat on the motion that the debate be adjourned. I can understand the chagrin of the Leader of the Opposition at the failure of this very obvious political exercise in which he has been engaged with his contingency motion. This whole exercise had its origin in a cheap political ploy which was an attempt to drive a wedge into the Government parties. I do not say that it is improper for an opposition party to do this. However, I do not think there is an honourable member in this House who does not see that this was the intention of the Opposition. What has been shown, and shown most clearly, in this debate is that there is solid unity in the Government parties. The defections- 
You were beaten by 7 votes, although 1 think that the Government's normal majority is 6 votes. This is one of the most resounding defeats that I have seen you suffer. J, can wait until Opposition members cease interjecting. I think it is a good thing that the galleries are full during school holidays. People can come and see the way in which the Labor Party behaves in this Parliament. Let us just watch the way in which members of that Party behave. As I said the other day, that Party is like the Belles of St Trinians 
I recall the words of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  in this debate when he was measuring the national importance of this question. We are all agreed that it is of national importance. To that extent the Leader of the Opposition made one correct statement in his speech. However, I recall also the right honourable member for Higgins saying that he regarded it as of paramount national importance that the Opposition should not by any means obtain the reins of government, that he would regard that as a disaster for Australia. The Opposition is controlled by an outside body that is not elected by the people of Australia; it is a body that has a policy of socialism; a body dominated- 
-I bow to your ruling,  Sir. I  comment only that the Leader of the Opposition was saying what honourable members on this side of the House had said and he said that it was all one way. I was reminding him of some of the reasons which had been given by the right honourable member for Higgins on this side of the House in regard to whether the debate on this Bill should be adjourned. The Oposition is using this kind of procedural issue - we are getting familiar with it from day to day - to avoid the main and paramount issues of the day such as industrial relations, the immigration policy - (Quorum formed). We saw this morning a similar waste of time on a procedural motion. In this case the vote has already been taken, but all the arguments are being repeated on another procedural motion for the purpose of wasting time. I want to draw the attention of the House and of the people of Australia to the fact that it has been announced publicly that it is hoped that the House will rise for the winter recess on Thursday, 25th May. As was mentioned this morning, a substantial number of members from the Opposition side will be attending a conference of socialists in Singapore. They will be leaving for that conference on Friday, 26th May. What is happening in regard to these procedural motions? I want honourable members to bear in mind next week when there is a rush of legislation, that there has been ample time to put through all the legislation in an orderly fashion without having to sit late. This would have been the case if there had not been the waste of time this morning and this afternoon by way of these kind of nonsensical procedural motions. If we have to apply the gag later to get legislation through next week let members of the Opposition bear the responsibility because that is what they are leading up to and they are leading up to this situation deliberately. I ask honourable members to bear this in mind and just add these 2 things together if we do not have enough time to deal with legislation next week. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Of the 6 matters referred to the Commission on 17th September 1971, the Commission has 3 under present examination (review of Imperial Acts in force in the Australian Capital Territory review of New South Wales; Acts in force in the Australian Capital Territory; and review of the civil procedure of the Court of Petty Sessions). It is not possible, however, to say at this point when the first report of the Commission will be tabled. 
Yes. The Commission has consulted with its counterparts in New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia. The  Chairman  of the Commission intends that there should be continuing discussions with the State bodies. 
en - The Attorney- 
General  has provided the following answer to  the  honourable member's question: 
Since my predecessor's answer to question No. 3334, the sub-committee set up to examine this matter has continued its work and met on 26th August 1971, 25th and 26th November 1971 and 16th and 17th March 1972. The sub-committee has consisted of representatives of the Commonwealth and the States of New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia and  of  employer organisations and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The work of the sub-committee is well-advanced and it is expected that a report  of  the sub-committee will shortly be available for consideration by the National Labour Advisory Council. The Council has been kept informed  ofthe  progress made by the subcommittee. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am informed that Queensland police conducted a lengthy investigation into the alleged misuse of funds for drought relief in 1970-71. 
Two persons have been committed for trial at the current sittings of the District Court, Brisbane, on a number of charges of false pretences. A substantia] number of further charges is yet to be heard in the lower court. 
As this question calls for the expression of a legal opinion I do not propose to answer it. 
No. (See answer to Question No. 2910, Hansard, page 2871, 7th May 1971). 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As the honourable member has previously been informed the detailed examination of the Statutes and Statutory Rules of the Commonwealth, the Ordinances and Regulations of the Territories and the other laws in force in the Territories, which would be necessary for preparation of the list requested,is a task that would need a considerable amount of time. In view of other more pressing requirements of my Department it has not yet been practicable to prepare the list requested. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) In addition to the attendance of 351 members of the Commonwealth Police Force for training at recruit, investigator, non-commissioned officer and officer levels, officers in the numbers stated below came to the Australian Police College for training in 1970-71 from the following Police Forces: 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Reference was made, in the answer to the honourable member's previous question, to draft legislation being prepared in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory for the release of offenders on probationary supervision subject to payment of a penalty. 
That legislation is now in force as the Crimes Ordinance 1971 of the Australian Capital Territory and the Criminal Law (Conditional Release of Offenders) Ordinance 1971 of the Northern Territory. 
In addition a Parole of Prisoners Ordinance 1971 was made, and is now in force, in each Territory. Each Ordinance provides for a minimum term of imprisonment to be fixed as part of  a  Court's sentence and for the release of prisoners on parole after serving a minimum term. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Criminology Research Act will be proclaimed as soon as a Director of the Institute is appointed. Applicants for the position of Director are currently being interviewed. Each of the 6 States has named its representative on the Council of the Institute of Criminology but the new Tasmanian Attorney-General has been asked whether he would wish to review the name put forward by his predecessor. The members of the Council may not be formally nominated and appointed until Regulations have been made and the Act has been brought into force. The Regulations are now being drafted. Since 3 members of the Board of Management of the Institute of Criminology are appointed on the nomination of the Council, it will not be possible to appoint the Board until the members of the Council have been formally appointed and the Council has met to decide on its nominations to the Board of Management. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 12th June 1952 John Novotny and Jerry 
Koci were sentenced to death for the offence of murder. Execution of the sentence was deferred until 7th August 1952 when both men were hanged. 
On 6th August 1952 Terence Charles Stapleton was sentenced to death for the offence of murder. Execution of sentence was deferred pending determination of his appeal against the conviction. On 19th September 1952 the High Court set aside the conviction and ordered a new trial. On 7th May 1953 Stapleton was found nol guilty of the offence of murder on the grounds  of  insanity. 
On 7th October 1964 William Thomas Moore was sentenced to death for the offence of murder. Execution of the sentence was deferred and on 26th November 1964 the sentence was commuted to one of life imprisonment. 
On 15th May 1968 John Manuel Da Costa was sentenced to death for the offence of murder. Execution of the sentence was deferred and on 6th November 1968 the sentence was commuted to one of life imprisonment. 
On 2nd December 1970 Leonard John Pemble was sentenced to death for the offence of murder. Execution of the sentence was deferred pending his appeal against the conviction. On 25th May 1971 the High Court set aside the conviction for murder, and directed that a verdict of guilty of manslaughter be entered. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The proposal that a public lending right should be established and a fund set up for the making of payments to Australian authors has continued to be the subject of investigation by, my Department in consultation with other interested Departments. Additional material has recently been received from the Australian Society of Authors. This material has been supplied to enable some estimate to be made of the likely cost of the proposals made by the Society. The next steps to be taken are now being considered. 
The other Departments presently involved in the matter are the Departments of the Treasury and of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
New Zealand, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, Western Australia, Tasmania, Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory, Territory of Papua and New Guinea, Commonwealth. 
At the conclusion of the conference the Commissioners issued a statement in the following terms: 
The discussions of the Commissioners centred around the many problems of common interest to all Police Forces, with special emphasis on co-operation and common action between Forces to the maximum possible extent. 
Prominent, of course, was crime in all its forms, the techniques for combating criminal activities, and the best ways of achieving interaction between Police Forces in these days of rapid mobility. The Commissioners agreed to direct the attention of the heads of their respective Crime Departments to undertake research in depth into a number of areas of serious crime currently causing concern to the community. The integration of technical resources where possible, including the specialised trainig of technicians, as well as the best means of arriving at uniformity in crime statistics came under review. 
Because of the availability of rapid means of transport, efficient communications are of vital concern to all Forces and consideration was given by the Commissioners to improving means of communication between Forces in Australia as well as those abroad, including the facilities available through Interpol. Special emphasis was given to the need to retain intrastate radio communications. "The support of the Commissioners for establishment of a Police National Planning and Research Unit, in which all Forces would participate, was reaffirmed and a proposal for the establishment of a National Forensic Science Institute is being examined. 
Conference supported the action taken by the Commonwealth Government in seeking the holding of  a  General Assembly of the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol) to be preceded by an Asian Regional Conference in Australia, and noted with satisfaction the announcement by the Commonwealth AttorneyGeneral that these Conferences have been arranged in Australia in 1974.' 
For the information of honourable members I present the Sixth Interim Report of the Company Law Advisory Committee. The report deals with the selling of shares by what is known as share hawking'. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. The purpose of the first 7 Bills is to give effect in Australia to the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations which provides a comprehensive code of international conduct on consular relations. The last Bill amends the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Act 1967 to bring certain provisions of that Act into line with the provisions applicable to consuls under the Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill as well as introducing modifications found necessary in the light of experience since the 1967 Act has been in operation. Before continuing, I should perhaps mention the difference between the functions of a consul and those of a diplomat. While their functions might overlap in some matters, a diplomat primarily represents the sending state in the receiving state. A diplomatic mission, and in particular the head of the mission, is the spokesman for the sending state in communications with the receiving state or in any discussions with the government of that state to which relations between the two states may give rise. A consul, on the other hand, does not represent the sending state. He is an official of the sending state resident in the receiving state with the permission of that state. He is charged with the responsibility of performing official functions of the sending state - for example the issue of visas and passports - to protect the interest of the citizens of the sending state. 
The history of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations is closely parallel to that of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Consular intercourse and immunities were included in the 1949 agenda of the International Law Commission as one of 14 subjects provisionally designated as ripe for codification. The Commission, a body of 25 eminent jurists established by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1947 and representative of the principal legal systems of the world, began work on the subject in 1955 and completed its first draft in 1960. This was transmitted to governments for comments. In the light of these comments the final text of the draft was completed in the following year and 2 years later was considered by a diplomatic conference in Vienna attended by the representatives of 92 states, including Australia. The text adopted by the conference entered into force in 1967 after 22 states had become party to it. There are now 48 states party to the Convention including the United States of America, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany. The text of the Convention is an amalgamation of the views of expert lawyers and the views of governments and has now gained the active support of a significant number of countries. 
Australia signed the Convention in 1964, hut legislation is necessary before we are in a position to give effect to and to become a party to it. In this the Government is following the same course as it did in 1967 when the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Act was passed, thus allowing Australia to become party to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Rela tions. If the Bills at present before Parliament are enacted into law and Australia ratifies the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, we shall have a system of privileges and immunities based on internationally accepted standards covering the entire field of diplomatic and consular relations. As indicated by the then Minister for External Affairs in his second reading speech on the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Bill on 9th March 1967, the effect is to set out the standards in the Conventions and the general level of privileges and immunities accorded to foreign representatives in Australia. 
I should like to mention briefly here for the information of honourable members the meaning to be attached to the terms consular privileges' and 'consular immunities'. In common parlance these terms are often confused and this has sometimes led to the belief that consuls do not have to respect the local law. This is not the case. The term 'privileges' is commonly used to describe the concessions, often of a fiscal nature, which countries traditionally accord to foreign consular posts and their staffs, while the term 'immunities' describes the jurisdictional immunities which international law confers on them. The Convention, in Article 55, emphasises that it is the duty of all persons enjoying privileges and immunities to respect the laws and regulations of the receiving state. Thus, immunity is not immunity from the law. It is immunity from the jurisdiction of the courts of the receiving state. If such immunity is waived by the sending state in a particular case the court can proceed in the usual way. 
The purpose of privileges and immunities - as the preamble to the Convention recites - is not to benefit individuals, but to ensure the efficient performance of functions by consular posts on behalf of their respective states. Immunities in particular are protections which experience has long established as necessary to ensure the performance of the functions of a consular post without undue interference. In this respect we should also bear in mind that Australia cannot expect that its overseas posts and their staffs should receive more generous treatment than that which Australia is prepared to concede to overseas posts and their staffs in Australia. Any curtailment of the internationally recognised privileges and immunities - particularly the latter - on Australia's part could thus create difficulties for our Australian posts overseas and perhaps jeopardise their security. There is need to maintain a proper balance between these 2 considerations. 
There are now some 52 consular posts in Australia headed by career consular officers and 106 headed by honorary consuls. The privileges enjoyed by these posts and their staffs as well as members of the family of some of them, are presently to be found in the Acts concerned with income tax, sales tax, customs, excise and so on. The Bills now before the House do not alter the level of privileges accorded under these Acts. This is because the present level of privileges was established in 1967 by legislation supplementary to the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Act. For example, a provision - section 23aaa - was inserted in the Income Tax Assessment Act authorising exemptions which were in line with those required by the Consular Convention. The provisions inserted in the sales tax, pay-roll tax and customs duties legislation also incorporated the standard of privileges required by the Consular Convention. Besides bringing these privileges into line with those of the Consular Convention this action also brought them into a proper relationship with those granted to diplomatic missions and their staffs. Had this not been done at the time, there would have been a disparity in favour of consular personnel brought about by a reduction generally of diplomatic privileges under the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Act. 
The system of privileges established under the 1967 Act exceeded the level required by the Convention in some respects. For example, although the Diplomatic Convention did not provide for exemption from excise duty, the Acts passed at that time gave excise concessions on the same basis as customs concessions - that is, in cases where purchases were made from bond. Exciseable goods were also exempted from sales tax. The Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill continues these limited excise and sales tax concessions in excess of requirements under the Convention. The present legislative system of imposing quantitative limitations on goods that may be exempted for use under the customs, excise and sales tax provisions as well as time limitations on selling or otherwise disposing of them, is of course continued. 
However, in the case of customs duties and sales tax applicable to imported goods, the Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill introduces certain alterations in the system of limitations. At present, if, for example, a consular officer purchased a car free of customs duty, he may not sell it within 2 years after the date of entry for home consumption without paying an amount equal to that customs duty, unless the Minister for Customs and Excise otherwise determines. Under the existing legislation the Minister's power to determine otherwise is limited to determining that, in the particular circumstances of a case, no payment need be made. There is no provision enabling the Minister to determine that if, for instance, a consular officer is transferred from Australia before the expiry of the 2-year period, he should pay a proportion of the duty only. On the one hand a determination that no payment need be made results in a loss to Commonwealth revenue while, on the other hand, if the consular officer has to pay the full amount, it could result in an unfair personal loss to him. In these circumstances the Bill provides, in addition to the Minister's authority to waive or require payment of the full amount of duty in any particular case, a general scheme whereby, if goods are sold within a defined time after importation, duty and tax are assessed on a pro rata basis - the time and basis for assessment being determined by the Minister for each class of goods. This right of the Minister to require the whole or part of the duty or tax in the event of the sale of the goods concerned in Australia within 2 years after importation is extended to cover the case where the goods are sold in an external territory of the Commonwealth within that period. Thus, apart from this aspect, these Bills do not alter the level or nature of the privileges consular posts and their personnel have been accorded for the past 5 years. In effect what is involved is mainly a change in the form of the legislation dealing with such matters. Instead of being scattered over 6 different Acts such privileges will now all be found in the one Act closely linked to the standards in the Convention. 
I now turn to the question of consular immunities. There is at present no legislation covering consular immunity in Australia. This is governed by the common law and is often uncertain. Both consular officers and consular employees, that is, persons employed in the administration or technical service of a consular post, are accorded in the Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill, immunity from jurisdiction in respect of acts performed in the exercise of consular functions. The immunity accorded to these people is thus less than that accorded to corresponding ranks in a diplomatic mission. Overseas practice and interpretation of the requirements of the Convention in this regard has been that consular officers do not enjoy immunity from jurisdiction in respect of acts associated with, but not forming part of, their consular acts'; for example, parking in a no parking* zone while making an official call. It, of course, remains to be seen whether our own courts adopt a similar interpretation. In repect of motor vehicle accidents the Convention lays down specific rules. All members of a consular post are required to comply with local laws dealing with third party insurance for vehicles, vessels or aircraft and there is no immunity in respect of a civil action by a third party for damages arising from an accident caused by a vehicle, vessel or aircraft. Moreover, there is no immunity from the jurisdiction of the Australian courts in respect of a civil action against a consular officer or consular employee arising out of a contract concluded by him in which he did not expressly or impliedly contract as an agent of the sending State. If the consular officer commits a grave crime - and this has been defined in the Bill as one for which the maximum penalty on first conviction is imprisonment that may extend to 5 years or more - he may be arrested in the same way as any other person in similar circumstances. If criminal proceedings are instituted against him, he must appear before the appropriate court. 
The Convention aims to accord to the consulate and its staff that degree of immunity which the international community considers necessary for them to perform their functions free from interference or harassment, while at the same time the rights of citizens and the receiving State are protected to the greatest extent possible commensurate with that need. The balancing of interest can be seen, for example, in the degree of inviolability given the consular premises. The authorities of the receiving State are not permitted to enter that part of the premises used exclusively for the work of the consular post, except with the consent of the head of the post. Moreover, the authorities are under a special duty to take all appropriate steps to protect the consular premises against any intrusion or damage and to prevent any disturbance of the peace of the consular post or impairment of its dignity. On the other hand, the consent of the head of the post for entry by the authorities of the host State is assumed in case of fire or other disaster requiring prompt protective action. In such circumstances the interests of the host State are regarded as paramount. 
It would be appropriate to mention at this point that the Convention makes special provision regarding members of the consular post who are either Australian citizens or who are permanently resident in Australia. In the case of consular officers in this category the Convention itself specifies the privileges and immunities to which they are entitled. But consular employees and members of the service staff are entitled only to such privileges and immunities as the receiving State determines. The Government considers that such consular employees, only, should be granted immunity from jurisdiction in respect of official acts performed in the exercise of their functions. 
What I have said so far relates to what are called 'career' consuls and posts headed by such people. There is, however, another classification of consuls known as 'honorary' consuls in relation to whom separate provision is made in the Convention. In general the facilities, privileges and immunities accorded to honorary consuls are much less than those accorded to a career consul. For example, there is no personal inviolability; that is, an honorary consular officer may be subject to arrest. He does, however, have immunity, similar to that of a career consular officer, in respect of acts performed in the exercise of his consular functions. Unfortunately, the international conference in 1963 which considered the draft Convention found that it could not agree on a definition of 'honorary' consul. Broadly, the distinction is that, while a career consul is a subject of the sending 
State, is specially sent by that State and has to devote the whole of his time to his consular functions, an honorary consul may or may not be a subject of the sending State, is appointed from individuals, usually businessmen, residing in the district of the receiving State for which he is to perform consular functions and, for part of the time, follows his ordinary calling. Present Australian practice is not to appoint honorary consuls in other countries; but we do accept them. As I have said, there are now in Australia some  106  consular posts headed by honorary consular officers. 
There is another matter dealt with by the Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill to which I should like to draw the attention of honourable members. For many years a number of overseas countries - mainly Commonwealth countries - have maintained offices with diplomatic status in cities other than Canberra. The Convention on Diplomatic Relations precludes the sending State from establishing such offices without the prior consent of the receiving State and, in international practice, it is unusual for this consent to be given. In April  197.1,  following the Government's decision on the matter, the heads of foreign diplomatic missions and consular posts were notified that the maintenance of diplomatic offices outside Canberra could not be continued and that diplomatic status and designation would, in future, be accorded only to missions and personnel respectively situated in, or resident in, Canberra. They were informed that consular status would then be the most that could be granted to the representation of foreign countries located elsewhere in Australia than Canberra and entitlement to this would depend on the type of functions performed by that representation and accepted by Australia. 
In the case of the representation of Commonwealth countries in Australia specific legislation is needed to achieve this objective because there is as yet no system of consular relations between Commonwealth countries. We have what is known as the host country convention'. This is an unwritten understanding according to which each Commonwealth country provides the equivalent of consular facilities for citizens of other Commonwealth countries. The Government now proposes to grant an office of a Commonwealth country not covered by the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Act  1967,  but performing tasks substantially corresponding to those of a consulate, the same privileges and immunities as a consulate. The staff of such an office would be treated on a corresponding basis. Clause  9  of the Bill gives effect to this proposal. The British Consular Relations Act  1968  establishes a similar system. 
This brings me to the specific provisions of the Bills. As to the Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill, clauses  1  and  2  are formal provisions. Clause  3  contains several necessary definitions of terms used in the Convention. Clause  4  provides for the extension of the Act to the Territories of the Commonwealth. Clause  5  is the main operative clause of the Bill and provides for the incorporation into Australian law of specific articles of the Convention. The remaining articles are not regarded as appropriate or necessary for action by legislation and the obligations in them can be met by administrative action. The other provisions of clause  5  are inserted for reasons of clarity of interpretation. Clause  6  qualifies the privileges of duty-free importation of goods in the same way as is done in the present Customs Tariff Act, with the addition of the alteration regarding pro rata payment of duties and taxes, which I discussed earlier, and extension of the legislation to cover the case where goods are sold in an external territory of the Commonwealth. Clause  7  grants exemption from excise duty on goods purchased from bond and clause  8  provides for the exemption of the same goods from sales tax. These clauses have the same effect as existing provisions in the excise and sales tax legislation except that provision is made for the case of sale in an external territory of the Commonwealth. 
Clause  9  deals with the position of posts established by Commonwealth countries in cities other than Canberra. The reasons for this I have already mentioned. This clause enables regulations to be made conferring on such posts all or any of the privileges and immunities conferred by the Act on a consular post. Provision is also made to cover the various classes of personnel attached to the post in a similar fashion. Clause  10  establishes the extent of privileges and immunities to be enjoyed in Australia by consular employees who are 
Australian citizens or ordinarily resident in Australia. This is to be confined to immunity from jurisdiction in respect of official acts performed in the exercise of their functions. Clause 11 enables privileges and immunities accorded under the Bill to be withdrawn from a consular post or from persons connected with the post in Australia if the country to which the post belongs has curtailed the privileges and immunities of the Australian consular post or the staff of that post in that country. The international approval of such reciprocal action is to be found in Article 72 of the Convention Clause 12 enables the Minister to certify in writing for the purpose of the Act or the regulations, any fact relevant to the question whether a person is or was entitled to privileges and immunities. Certificates of this nature are sought from time to time for use in our courts. I would emphasise that the certificates are certificates as to the facts on which the court can base its decision; and the certificates are evidence only, not conclusive evidence. 
The Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Bill amends the 1967 Act where this is necessary to maintain conformity with the provisions of the Consular Bill to regulate duty and tax free entry of goods, etc. Thus, clause 5 amends section 8 of the principal Act to provide a similar system of pro rata payment of customs duties and sales tax as is proposed for the consular field. Moreover, the right of the Minister to require payment of the whole or part of the duty or tax in the event of the sale of the goods concerned in Australia within 2 years is extended to cover the case where goods are sold in an external Territory of the Commonwealth within that period. Clauses 6 and 7 provide for a similar extension of the legislation to the Territories in the case of exemption from excise duty and from sales tax in excisable goods. 
Clause 8 amends section 11 of the principal Act to remedy an existing anomaly. Under the existing legislation private servants other than those serving the Head of Mission may be subject to the jurisdiction of the Australian courts in respect of acts performed in the course of their duties if they are foreign nationals or foreign residents but immune if they are Australian citizens or residents. The amendment places all such servants on the same footing. Section 13 of the Diplomatic 
Privileges and Immunities Act 1967 was inserted to enable appropriate immunities in respect of official acts to bc accorded to members of non-diplomatic posts in Australia established by the governments of British territories. The immunities considered appropriate were based on the consular standard. In view of this, clause 9 repeals section 13  -  such persons now being dealt with under clause 9 of the Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill. 
The remaining Bills propose amendments to the customs tariff, excise tariff, income tax, sales tax, Territory payroll tax and Australian Capital Territory stamp duty legislation. Each of the Acts to be amended contain taxation exemptions in relation to consular posts, but once the Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill becomes law it will grant the taxation privileges now contained in the separate Acts. Accordingly, the 6 Acts that are the subject of the remaining Bills are to be amended by the omission of provisions that will become redundant on the enactment of the comprehensive Consular Privileges and Immunities legislation. The provisions of the last 4 of the remaining Bills are dealt with in more detail in an explanatory memorandum which is being circulated for the information of honourable members. The Government considers that the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations represents a balanced and realistic approach to the subject, particularly in respect of privileges and immunities. It also sees considerable advantage in removing existing uncertainty on consular immunities in Australia and establishing the internationally accepted standards of privileges and immunities set out in the Convention. I commend all 8 Bills to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The Attorney-Gener al has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following Commonwealth laws contain provisions directed to combating oil pollution in the seas around the Australian coastline: 
Pollution of the Sea by Oil Act 1960-1965; this Act regulates the discharge of oil by ships registered in Australia outside Australian territorial waters and thereby discharges in part Australia's obligations under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil 1954 as amended; each State has laws regulating the circumstances in which ships may discharge oil in internal waters and the territorial sea; 
Navigation Act 1912-1970 (Part VIIa); and 
Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967- 1968. 
(a) I am informed by the Minister for Shipping and Transport that seven cases of possible offences under the Pollution of the Sea by Oil Act have been investigated. In three of these cases, the origin of the oil could not be determined. In another three cases, there were some grounds for suspicion that ships might have been responsible but, in each case, the ship in question was not registered in Australia and in consequence the Commonwealth Act did not apply; further, the evidence was not sufficient to warrant Australia exercising its right under the Convention for the Prevention of the Pollution of the Sea by Oil to bring the evidence to the notice ofthe country of registry As regards the seventh case, while evidence pointed to a particular ship being responsible for the pollution, the ship, which was not a tanker, was not registered in Australia and the evidence was not transmitted to the country of registry because it was considered that, under the Convention as it then stood, a defence was available to the ship in that, being a non-tanker, it was proceeding to a port not provided with adequate facilities for reception of residues of oil. 
1 am informed by the Minister for Shipping and Transport that no case of a possible offence against Part VIIa of the Navigation Act has come to notice; and 
As regards the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, 1 am informed by the Minister for National Development that he is not aware of any case of oil pollution arising from operations carried out under the authority of that Act. 
As will be seen from the answer to Question (2), no offence under the relevant Commonwealthlaws has come under notice. 
As appears from the answers to the earlier questions, experience in administering the Commonwealth laws has not so far indicated any need to change the provisions of these laws along the lines suggested, but consideration will be given to this matter. 
The  Attorney-General  has  provided  the  following answer to the honourable  member's  question: 
Since my predecessor's answer, Australia has been represented at  a  number of international conferences concerning the protection of broadcasts and recordings. The most recent of these conferences was the meeting of a committee of governmental experts held from 9th May to 17th May 1972 on problems raised by transmission of broadcasts via space satellites. Further consideration will be given to the question of accession to the Rome Convention against the background of the discussions at these meetings. 
 The Attorney-General has provided  the  following answer to  the  honourable member's question: 
As announced by the Attorney-General for South Australia, after the meeting of the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State AttorneysGeneral held in Adelaide on 20th and 21st April 1972, the Standing Committee discussed at length the need to control the storage and use of information concerning citizens whether maintained by computers or otherwise with a view to protecting individual privacy. The Ministers agreed to appoint  a  Judge or retired Judge to undertake a comprehensive investigation of the question. The officers appointed by the Standing Committee have been instructed to prepare terms of reference for the inquiry. It is contemplated that the inquiry will seek the views of all interested, including sociologists, persons concerned in the computer industry, and those responsible for the compilation of public records and statistics. 
Further action will largely depend on the outcome of that inquiry. 
The  answer to  the  honourable  member's  question  is as  follows: 
The following tables set out aid flows (or as in the case of Britain, all official flows) to the following states and territories of the region: 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In December 1962, there were 8 Federal judges, other than High Court Justices. There are now 10 Federal judges other than High Court Justices. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following information has been supplied by the States in relation to the number of appeals to the Privy Council from State Supreme Courts (a) instituted and (b)heard since 1st January 1967: 
New South Wales- One in 1968 and two each in 1969, 1970, 1971. 
Victoria- Since August, 1969, when the maintenance of statistics was commenced, two each in 1971 and 1972. 
Queensland- One in 1969 and one in 1970. 
South Australia - Nil. 
Western Australia - Nil. 
Tasmania - Nil. 
New South Wales- One in 1968, two in 1969, one in 1970, one in 1971. 
Victoria- Since August, 1969, when the maintenance of statistics was commenced, two in 1971. 
Queensland- One in 1969 and one in 1970. 
South Australia - Nil. 
Western Australia - Nil. 
Tasmania - Nil. 
There have been further informal and confidential discussions in the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General concerning the abolition of appeals to the Privy Council from State Supreme Courts. It would be inappropriate for me to indicate the nature of those discussions. It is a matter for each State to determine its own attitude with respect to this matter. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The number of appeals (including applications for leave or special leave to appeal) to the High Court from Territory Supreme Courts and Federal Courts in 1971 was as follows: 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Because of differing functions, organisation, procedures and terms and conditions of employment in the Commonwealth Police Force, the recommendations contained in  Colonel Sir Eric  St Johnston's report on the Victorian Force which are relevant are those of a general character relating to police training, study schemes for police and police communications. The recommendations on these matters are being taken into consideration in reviewing training programmes and the introduction of a study assistance scheme for members of the Commonwealth Police Force. In co-operation with professional engineers of the Postmaster-General's Department radio communication requirements for the Force are also being reviewed. 
In the field of co-operative action  Colonel Sir Eric  St Johnston recommended that officers from the Victorian Force should attend a course each year at the Australian Police College and that the Commonwealth Police should conduct the National Central Bureau of Interpol in Australia. As to the first point, places are available for members of the Victoria Police at the Officers' Course conducted each year at the Australian Police College. Discussions are continuing with Victoria on the second point. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) I am informed that legislation has not been introduced in New South Wales. In South Australia, the Foreign Judgments Act 1971 has been enacted. The Act came into operation on 23rd December 1971. 
I am informed that the Victorian legislation has been extended to Japan and that the Western Australian legislation has been extended to Italy. The Victorian, Queensland, Western Australian, Tasmanian, Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory legislation has also been extended to a number of Commonwealth countries. 
No State or Territory has yet enacted legislation for the implementation of the Convention. In the Australian Capital Territory, the relevant legislation will form part of a new Ordinance dealing with commercial arbitration generally. The drafting of the Ordinance is at an advanced stage. 
 The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Adelaide, 20th and 21st April 1972. 
The proceedings of the Standing Committee are confidential. However, I am at liberty to disclose that the following matters were considered at the meeting referred to in part (1) of this answer: 
Proposal that the Attorneys-General participate in a joint review of off-shore petroleum legislation and its underlying agreements and other off-shore matters. 
Control of the storage and use of information concerning citizens, whether maintained by computers or otherwise, with a view to protecting individual privacy. 
Proposal that the States should seek legislation by the United Kingdom Parliament similar to the Statute of Westminster. . 
A report prepared for the Victorian AttorneyGeneral on fair consumer credit laws. 
The practice in accordance with which motor vehicle manufacturers exclude, by provisions of a warranty, the protection an owner would otherwise be afforded by common law or statute. 
Proposal that the Securities Industry legislation be amended to require brokers to pay all trust moneys received by them into.  their trust accounts immediatelyon receipt instead of after 3 days as at present,  required by most State legislation. 
Proposal that companies be requiredto maintain a register of all options granted in respect of their unissued share capital  and that the public be allowed to inspect the register. 
The present position of the matters mentioned in answer to Question No. 2466 (Hansard, 25th November 1971, page 3777) is shown in the list set out below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Of the four organs of the United Nations- The General Assembly, The Security Council, The Trusteeship Council, and the Economic and Social Council, only two, the General Assembly and the Trusteeship Council, passed resolutions in 1971 on Papua New Guinea. 
The General Assembly passed a resolution (No. 2865) on the 'Question of Papua New Guinea' on 20th December. The Trusteeship Council passed 2 resolutions. The first, numbered 2155, was a resolution on the 'Report of the United Nations Visiting Mission to the Trust Territory of Papua New Guinea, 1971.' 
The Second, numbered 2156, was a resolution on 'Arrangements for the dispatch of a visiting mission to observe the elections to the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly in 1972.' Both Trusteeship Council resolutions were passed on the 18th June. 
The texts of the 3 resolutions, together with details of the votes recorded, are as follows: 
General Assembly Resolution 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The situation of Queen Kossamak, Prince Sihanouk's mother, was considered by my predecessor in December 1970 and January 1971, following upon receipt of letters on the subject from the former Cambodian Consul-General in Melbourne. It was decided that it would not be proper for the Australian Government to intervene in the domestic affairs of another State. I believe, however, that the former Queen could not be described as being under preventive detention. I understand that she sees members of her family and can move freely about Phnom Penh. Wartime restrictions on travel beyond the capital apply equally to all citizens of Phnom Penh. 
Since the deposition of Prince Sihanouk on 18th March 1970, members of his family have been tried as follows: 
Prince Norodum Naradipo and Princess Bothum Bopha were tried on charges of treason between 31st March and 6th April 1971. Prince Naradipo was found guilty and sentenced to 5 years imprisonment. This sentence was later reduced to one year as a result of a general amnesty. The terms will be completed shortly. 
Princess Bothum Bopha was acquitted. 
Prince Ranaridh and Prince Naradipo were  charged with murder and tried between 14th and 17th July 1971. Both were acquitted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Soviet Union has never asked the British Government to reconvene the Geneva Conference on Vietnam. The British Government has made a variety of approaches. These have ranged from explicit proposals to the Soviet Government to public calls for the Geneva Conference to be reconvened. Specific instances since July 1962 are as follows: 

 Mr Wilson proposed the reconvening of the Conference during  Mr Gromyko's  visit to London from 16th to 20th March 1965. 

 Mr Stuart raised the question with  Mr Gromyko  in Vienna on 15th May 1965. 

 Mr Stuart stated in Parliament on 3rd June 1965 his readiness to join  Mr Gromyko  in reconvening the Geneva Conference. 

 Mr Wilson told Parliament on 19th July 1966 that he had pressed hard for reconvening during his visit to Moscow on 16th and 19th July. 

 Mr Brown invited  Mr Gromyko  to reconvene the Geneva Conference in a speech to the Labour Party Conference on 6th October 1966. 

 Mr Brown repeated this invitation in a speech to the General Assembly on 11th October 1966. 

 Sir Alec Douglas-Home proposed the reconvening during  Mr Gromyko's  visit to London in October 1970. 
On 7th April 1972 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Permanent UnderSecretary suggested to the Soviet Ambassador in London the reconvening of the Conference. 
On 20th April 1972 the British Ambassador in Moscow reminded  Mr Gromyko  of this suggestion. 
On 10th May 1972  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home summoned the Soviet Ambassador to reiterate this proposal. 
The answer to the Honourable Member's question is as follows: 
The question whether Commonwealth policy accords with the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 107 and Recommendatiin No. 104 involves the interpretation of those documents. Such interpreaation is a question of law and having regard to Standing Order 144, it is not appropriate to express any opinion on those questions. 
Consultations with the International Labour Office are continuing in connection with the interpretation of the provisions of theILO instruments referred to in the question. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of Australia's acceding to the Agreement relating to refugee seamen is still under consideration. The answer given on 18th August 1971 by  Senator Wright  to Question No. 1178 asked by  Senator Mulvihill  (Hansard, Senate, page 70) is relevant. In the adjournment debate, on 26th October 1971 (Hansard, Senate, page 1467)  Senator Wright  made further reference to this matter. It has not yet been possible to resolve the difficulty concerning the application of the agreement to Papua New Guinea. 
Britain has extended the agreement to the following territories in the Indian and Pacific Oceans: 
Fiji (now independent) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The references to Northern Ireland were based on information available to the Australian Government from public and diplomatic sources. 
, (3) and (4) The Australian Government is being kept aware of the views of the British  and  Irish Governments through normal diplomatic channels. 
-I did see that  Mr George  Crawford, the  Chairman  of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, and 3 other unionists were visiting Hanoi. I think this is entirely consistent with the sympathy for the North Vietnamese cause which has been consistently shown by the left wing of the Labor Party. We have had other examples of sympathy being shown. When the North Vietnamese started their massive aggression with 130 millimetre guns and Russian tanks in April of this year and they went into Laos, Cambodia and South Vietnam, killing the people of those 3 countries, the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, by 1 1 1 votes to 96, supported the North Vietnamese in their aggressive activity. At a time when the North Vietnamese were fighting our own allies and our own troops were involved the Labor Party was supporting these aggressors. I think that that is entirely consistent with the Labor Party's attitude. Indeed it is not so long ago that the honourable member for Lalor invited representatives of North Vietnam to a moratorium march in this country. I think every Australian will be able to judge for himself the propriety of this procedure. There are still 140 Australians assisting our South Vietnamese friends and allies. Quite apart from that, civil help is being given in hospitals and in other places in South Vietnam. This has been the effort of the Australian people against these aggressors to help the South Vietnamese determine their own way of life. The South Vietnamese have defended themselves very gallantly. In fact they are winning at the present time. Despite this we have the Australian Labor Party sending its representatives to North Vietnam. 
-I am aware of the sale of sugar to the People's Republic of China which followed, I might point out, my statement on 9th May in this House of our policy on China. I may say that not only was I in touch with the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd but my Department was also aware of this matter. I therefore do not quite know what the honourable gentleman means by asking us to keep our noses out, seeing that there was a successful conclusion to the exercise. However, the reason for the successful sale in this case was largely the inability of Cuba to supply the sugar. When the People's Republic of China needs something and is unable to purchase it from the usual source it makes a purchase where it can do so successfully. 
However, let me return to the other part of the honourable gentleman's question about political matters having entered into the sale of wheat. For the 10 years up to 30th June 1970 we had in total outsold Canada in wheat sales to China. For the year ended 30th June 1970 we had  a  substantial trade with China. Our sales were worth SI 26m and China's sales to us were worth $32m. It was only when the Labor Party raised as a political issue in this House, only when the Labor Party moved a motion in this House which turned wheat into a political issue - and the honourable gentleman who asked the question was in this - that for the first time the Chinese decided to assign a political reason for the non-purchase of wheat from Australia. This was continued. 
The honourable gentleman organised a trip to solve the wheat question. I know that it was taken over by the Leader of the Opposition and turned into a different kind of exercise altogether. But leaving that on one side, the honourable gentleman went up there, as he informed this House, with a view to showing that the Labor Party could organise the sale of wheat. This is what has made wheat a political issue, and as long as the honourable gentleman continues in this House to make it a political issue the Chinese will treat it as such. When he stops doing it, remains silent and allows the country to trade and to carry on in a proper and dignified way, as it has done successfully in the past, then we will sell wheat again to China. 
The Government does not initiate activity in relation to sugar. This is done by private enterprise or, in the case of wheat, by the Australian Wheat Board dealing with its opposite number in China. It does not become a political exercise until the honourable member for Dawson or someone from the Labor Opposition raises it in this House to get a headline and to make it a political matter. As long as it is not a political matter there could be possibilities of further trade if the requirements are there. If the requirement for trade is not there, there will not be trade. If the requirement for trade is there, there will be trade, provided the honourable member for Dawson does not sabotage it by his kind of comment. 
 The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has suggested that the Government has not been active in protesting against these tests. I think on that point I should make some remarks to the House because it is a misconception that is being put abroad. It is quite false. As far back as 1963  Sir Garfield  Barwick. who was then Minister for External Affairs, on behalf of Australia condemned nuclear tests in the roundest terms in the United Nations. In that year we signed and subsequently ratified the partial nuclear test ban treaty. We have been endeavouring to get this treaty generally accepted by other nations including France and China, but, in the case of those 2 countries, so far without success. Year after year this matter has been raised in the United Nations and from time to time resolutions have been proposed and Australia has had to declare its position. I am riot going to weary the House by going through year by year the strong stand which we have taken in regard to nuclear testing. Let me give one illustration. Last year resolution No. 2828C, in favour of which we voted, commenced in this way: 
The United Nations- 
stresses anew the urgency of bringing to a halt all nuclear weapons testing in all environments by all States. 
Australia voted in favour of that resolution and gave a strong speech on that subject. There have been 14 atmospheric tests conducted by China. I have not heard the honourable member for Reid suggest that we should break off with the People's Republic of China the diplomatic relations which we have not yet established or to cease the trade that we now have with that country. Nor have I heard the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is sitting opposite, suggest that he wants the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to assist by giving $5,000 from his political slush fund to permit the honourable member for Lalor to travel to China and place himself in the way of that country's nuclear tests in the atmosphere. Why not? 
The Australian Government has been protesting against all atmospheric testing, not in a selective way excluding Communist countries and being soft with them. We have been protesting against both France and China. When it was suggested this year that the French would start testing in the Pacific we were the first country to lodge a protest. Subsequently at the environmental conference in Stockholm a resolution, which was much less appropriate than the one we voted in favour of and which also referred to the disarmament conference at the United Nations, was put before a committee at Stockholm. We were not satisfied with the terms of it and abstained from voting. Some people thought they could get a slight political advantage by criticising the Government for having abstained from voting on this proposal at the committee meeting. When the resolution came into plenary session at the Stockholm conference on the environment, because we could not get it framed in accordance with the procedures we thought were proper and consistent with our attitude up to that time, we voted in favour of it. But in the meantime those who were politically interested saw a chance to gain some advantage and for the first time began to take an interest in this subject. 
The Government has been taking an interest - a solid interest - all along the line, yet the Press or the political people on the other side were suggesting that they had discovered the issue and were urging action on the Government. The Government was well ahead of them and had been for some years. Subsequently the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  wrote to  President  Pompidou protesting and various other steps were taken. A joint message from *he Prime Minister of New Zealand,  Mr Marshall,  and our Prime Minister was presented on this subject to the disarmament conference in Geneva. We have made protests through diplomatic channels. The honourable member for Reid has suggested that we should impose some sanctions or that we should break off diplomatic relations. 
-I accept that. I am sorry if I have suggested that you said we should break off diplomatic relations because that would be entirely counterproductive. I agree with the honourable member for Reid that we should have diplomatic communications so that we can use them effectively as we in fact have done. I have not the slightest doubt from the information I have from France that what we have done has had a considerable impact on the manner in which France conducted its tests and the amount of money which it has spent in order to ensure that the tests were, as it is termed, the cleanest of any that have ever before been held. We have not so far succeeded in stopping France from carrying out nuclear tests. Nothing short of a powerful massing of world opinion will stop France. Sanctions will not. 
We know what effect sanctions have even when the whole of the United Nations engage in sanctions against a country. How effective are they? How effective are trade sanctions? If Australia alone conducted trade sanctions what would be the position? We would hurt only Australia. Let us consider the balance of trade which is so much in our favour. Let us consider it, say, as it shows the position between Australia and the Pacific Islands of France. Our exports are worth $28. 7m and their exports to us are worth less than $lm. If we break off trade we throw Australians out of work and hurt Australian business and the French would laugh at us. This is what the honourable member is suggesting: Damage Australians and do not hurt Frenchmen. That would be the effect of cutting off trade. Now, that is a ridiculous suggestion. There may be other things that you can do but that certainly is not a sensible suggestion. As  Mr Marshall,  the new Zealand Prime Minister, put it, 'what we should do is take every practical and other effective step we can take'  -  doi impractical things, not gimmicks but practical and effective steps - and we should endeavour to marshal world opinion. This is what the Government has been doing. That is the policy which is followed and I can assure the Opposition that it has had considerable impact. It has not yet stopped the tests in which the French have millions of dollars invested - they regard them as essential to their defence. We have not stopped them yet but we have had a considerable influence and in fact we nave acted responsibly and properly. 
in reply - I want to comment briefly on 2 of the matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  This has taken a good deal of time for many reasons - I will not detain the House by listing them all - but I remind the Leader of the Opposition that, with international conventions including this convention, one of the delaying factors which is endemic here is the federal system whereby one constantly has to consult with the States before putting things into operation to ensure their operation. The States were consulted on this matter. . I do not blame that for the whole of the delay. I merely remind the House that in this, as in other conventions, that is one of the factors of delay. 
The protection of consulates is a problem not only in Australia but also in many countries. In modern times it seems to have become a popular technique of demonstration. Regrettably, embassies and consulates tend to be regarded as convenient targets for groups which wish to display their opposition to the policies of particular countries. We have seen it evidenced in relation to various embassies and consulates here. Very strong measures have been taken either for the prevention or, if prevention is not effective, for the apprehension of the offenders. This has not always been successful because those who are conducting these kinds of operations have the initiative. This problem is not confined to Australia. It is the position in other countries as well. We expect our consuls and ambassadors overseas to be protected. We certainly take the best steps available to us to protect such people here. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills together read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
and (2) I have seen the text of Monsieur Messmer's remarks as reported by the news media. Steps have been taken both in Canberra and in Paris to draw the attention of the French Government to the fact that, if these reports are correct, Monsieur Messmer's statement is a misrepresentation of the Australian Government's position towards the conduct of French Pacific nuclear tests. The Australian Government has on numerous occasions in the past clearly stated its opposition to such tests to the French Government both through public statements and through the delivery of official protest notes. As recently as 29th March 1972 a note was presented to the French Ambassador in Canberra, and on the same day the Minister for Foreign Affairs issued a statement referring to the note and emphasising the Government's opposition to the French Government's intention to resume Pacific atmospheric testing this year. 
(a) Although the Government has conducted discussions with certain regional countries concerning joint protests, those exchanges were of a confidential Government-to-Government nature, and must be respected as such, 
This year, the following countries are known to have protested to the French Government over the conduct of atmospheric nuclear testing in the Pacific: 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3)  Mr Fox  was released from prison on 26th May 1972. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of any allegations over the signature of  Mr Bawden  circulating in Queensland to the effect mentioned in the question. However, the honourable member for Oxley in a statement to the House made on 22nd August 1969 (Hansard, 22nd August, 1969, p. 625-6) read a statement that may have some connection with the present question. 
If the allegations relate to conduct which is examinable under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971 the appropriate course would be to refer those allegations to the Commissioner of Trade Practices. In general, however, responsibility for action taken by Ministersofthe Queensland Government rests with that Government. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2), (5) and (6) The position of Director of the Australian Institute of Criminology has been advertised in capital city newspapers in Australia. The applications that have been received for the position are under consideration. 
The salary that was fixed by Parliament by the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Act 1971 is $15,370. 
There are research bodies in these countries but I am not aware of any that could be classified as comparable with the Institute established by the Criminology Research Act. 
Pursuant to section 168 of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971 I present the Fifth Annual Report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices with respect to his operations during the year ended 30th June 1972. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Meetings of the Commonwealth Sanctions Committee were held in London, and attended by the Australian Deputy High Commissioner in the United Kingdom, on the following dates: 5th May 1970 2nd September 1970 30th September 1971 19th October 1971 10th December 1971 19th June 1972 29th June 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The People's Republic of China was not represented at the meeting of the committee of governmental experts held from 9th to 17th May 1972 in Paris and sponsored jointly by UNESCO and the World Intellectual Property Organisation. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Statistics are available for Australian Government sponsored students who arrived in Australia during the first 3 months of 1972 (the principal intake period for those who undertake academic studies at educational institutions) and for those who were studying in Australia at the end of 1971. Both sets of figures appear below. 
Private students are the responsibility of the Department of Immigration. That Department does not maintain statistics of student arrivals by country, but does conduct an annual census of the private student population at 30th June each year. The figures shown in the following table are the latest available: they have been taken from the June 1971 census results and show the numbers of private students who had arrived in Australia for the first time that year. 
Since the number of students and the proportion of sponsored and private students varies among countries, the order of listing differs between the 2 groups, and the same 10 countries do not appear in both lists. 
SPONSORED STUDENTS 
The floods in Luzon in the Philippines were very disastrous floods and led to widespread damage and some loss of life. International aid is being organised on a substantial scale and various countries bilaterally have been sending aid to help the flood victims. As far as Australia is concerned, our immediate action was to send $20 in cash. That was done on 20th July. That was an immediate gift. 
Twenty thousand dollars. I thank the honourable member for the correction. 1 appreciate his interjection. The honourable members interjections are generally of a humorous character but on this occasion his helpful interjection is welcomed. I do stress that our immediate gift was one of S20.000. This gift has followed the normal principle of Australian aid, that is. that speed and rap.dity of response immediately to the troubled area is the important thing. However, I would not like the Australian people to think that that is all the aid we are giving to these flood victims. There does seem to be an impression - I have heard people asserting it - that this is the only aid we are giving. In answering the honourable gentleman's question I should inform the 
House that on board ship at present is the next part of our aid. It is 2.300 tons of flour valued at about Si 76.000. We are currently marshalling a further shipment of 10,500 tons of wheat to go to the flood victims, this aid being valued at over $500,000. Our total aid to the Republic in the current financial year will be of the order of S2m. The impression that is sought to be created that Australia is slow or gives too little in its response is quite false. In this instance, as in the Bangladesh instance, we are ranking well up by world standards. 
As to our relations with the Republic of the Philippines, these were the subject of close discussion between General Romulo and myself when he was recently in Australia.' I am sure that they will develop very favourably. 
The Attorney-General has asked me to give the following reply: 
Initially the intention was to include this report, because it was a somewhat technical document, as an appendix to a background document being prepared in my Department to assist the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in its consideration of the subject of the law and administration of divorce, custody and family matters. In view, however, of the growing public interest in the subject of divorce law reform, I concluded that it should also be tabled in the Parliament. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Since 23rd February 1971 legal aid in divorce cases has been discussed at the meeting of the Standing Committee at Melbourne in July 1971; 
Legal aid in other matters has not been discussed since that date. 
State Railway Systems: Acquisition by Commonwealth  (Question No. 6026) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As at 1 1th August 1972 the information sought by the honourable member is as follows: 
Six persons sentenced to imprisonment for offences against the National Service Act are still serving sentences. 
On 27th August 1971 Gary James Cook was sentenced to two years imprisonment for an offence against section51 of the National Service Act. His sentence was reduced to eighteen months by the passage of the National Service Act 1971. 
On 21st January 1972 Ian Robert Turner was sentenced to eighteen months imprisonment for an offence against section 51 of the National Service Act. 
On 7th February 1972 Kenneth Joseph McClelland was sentenced to eighteen months imprisonment for an offence against section 51 of the National Service Act. On 18th April 1972 his appeal against conviction and sentence was dismissed and the sentence confirmed. 
On 25th February 1972 Robert William Martin was sentenced to eighteen months imprisonment for an offence against section 51 of the National Service Act. 
On 26th April 1972 Robert Geoffrey Scates was sentenced to eighteen months imprisonment for an offence against section 51 of the National Service Act. 
On 27th April 1972 Michael Kocan was sentenced to eighteen months imprisonment for an offence against section 51 of the National Service Act. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, to question No. 2666 in the House of Representatives on 21st April 197 1 - Hansard, page 1853, and to the answer given by my colleague  Senator Wright  on behalf of the Minister to question No. 1699 in the Senate on 1 December 1971 - Hansard, page 2227. In those answers it was explained what action is taken by the Department of Labour and National Service to detect those who do not register under the National Service Act when required to do so. 
Failure to register (sec. 48) - 185 Making false statements (sec. 48b)  -  1 Failure to attend medical examination (sec. 49)- 42 
Failure to submit to medical examination (sec. 49a)- 1 
Failure to comply with call-up notice (sec. 51)- 23 
Leaving Australia without permission (sec. 56)- 2 
As honourable members will know, there is a Commonwealth Act preventing the tapping of telephones, it being a matter which is under Federal control. Recently some use has been made of a recording made of a telephone conversation. I am not aware in detail of the precise circumstances in which that recording of the telephone conversation was made. However, it is remarkable that this invasion of privacy was made by the person concerned - the  President  of the Australian Council of 
Trade Unions - who saw no difficulty at all in the invasion of privacy which was so involved. I recall that, at a previous time when I was Attorney-General, an approach was made by certain State AttorneysGeneral to ease this law to give police the right to tap telephones and, at that stage and on behalf of the Federal Government, I refused to relax the protection of the individual's privacy in this matter. It is a matter for astonishment that we find someone in the position of the  President  of the ACTU happily using the recording of a private telephone conversation in this way. Whether a breach of the law is involved turns to some extent on the question of State law. As honourable members will know, laws have been passed in New South Wales and Victoria dealing with this subject. However, I shall refer this matter to my colleage in another place. 
by leave - I wish to make a statement to amend an answer which I gave to a question asked by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  At the time I gave that answer 1 had in mind a newspaper report which suggested that what had been played on tape at the interview was a telephone conversation. Since giving that answer I have been advised that there are other reports indicating that this was not a tape of a telephone conversation but of a private conversation between two individuals. That naturally would alter a very great part of the answer I gave which related to telephone tapping and, therefore, I thought I should make the position clear. I will have inquiries into the matter made by my colleague but I wanted to correct that part of my answer. 
-I did see a newspaper report of a statement made by the American Ambassador, and it dealt with 2 aspects. One related to the fact that he said that the Leader of the Opposition had said he would investigate the role of American defence installations and that he, the Ambassador, was confident that, if such an investigation were made, in the event of a change of government, the new government would be satisfied that these bases should remain. The second thing was that the Ambassador thought that if there were a change of government the new government would maintain in full force the ANZUS commitment. I expected a question from the Opposition on this matter yesterday. The statement was made on Monday. I checked as to whether the statement was made, and I understand that it was made at Perth airport. 
The first thing that emerges from it is that the Ambassador is strongly in favour of the Australian commitment to the ANZUS treaty, which is Liberal-Country Party policy. He is also strongly in favour of the American defence installations in Australia, which also are Liberal-Country Party policy. The strange thing that emerges is that after listening to the Leader of the Opposition, either publicly or privately, the Ambassador should feel that Labor policy will change and the Labor Party will adopt Liberal-Country Party policy on these 2 matters should there be a change of govern ment. May I point out that so far as the ANZUS treaty is concerned, we had the Labor spokesmen on foreign affairs addressing the Australian-American Association stating in the clearest terms, using even pejorative terms, the ANZUS treaty is completely irrelevant to modern conditions. We had him describing the South East Asia Treaty Organisation as an irrelevant dead horse. May I point out that when United States Secretary of State Rogers was out here for the SEATO conference, he said that if Australia withdrew from SEATO that would be the beginning of the end of ANZUS; the 2 things were linked inseparably. 
There is no question as to the current policy of the Australian Labor Party on these 2 issues. The Launceston, conference made it quite clear that its policy is that all military content should be eliminated from the ANZUS treaty. Businessmen who have been addressed by the Leader of the Opposition have been convinced that if the Labor Party were elected tq office it would adopt Liberal-Country Party policies, that as far as businessmen were concerned there was nothing to fear. But the point is (fiat Labor policy is not determined by the Leader of the Opposition but is settled by the Federal Conference of the Labor Party. It is quite clear that Labor policy on ANZUS is to eliminate all military content from it, and the Labor policy on installations in Australia is to impose conditions which are known to be unacceptable to' the American people. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The draft of an agreement on the transfer of title in former Dutch East India Company wrecks off the coast of Western Australia from the Netherlands Government to the Australian Government was forwarded to The Hague in October 1971. Negotiations have continued since then and it is hoped the agreement will be signed shortly. The Western Australian authorities have been fully consulted throughout the negotiations. 
-I have seen these reports. I have also been referred to the speech made by the Israeli Prime Minister on this subject, and in Australia we have been approached by the Israeli Ambassador on the subject. We have not been able to confirm in detail all the alleged facts. 
However on several occasions in the United Nations, the last occasion being at the meeting of the General Assembly last year, we have raised our voice and spoken in favour of the free movement of Jews from the Soviet Union in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We support that principle. We have expressed our views and will continue to do so. We had received information that in fact the Soviet Union had been relaxing ds restriction upon the movement of Jews from the Soviet Union. If what the honourable member suggests in his question is correct, it would place a considerable brake upon those who had degrees, particularly those with higher degrees. That information is yet to be confirmed in detail. 
Honourable members will recall that the subject of  Scientology  was a matter  of  some considerable concern and inquiry in the 1960s and from time to time since then. Perhaps the major inquiry into this subject was conducted over a period of 2 years by  Mr Kevin  Anderson, Q.C. who is now a Justice of the Supreme Court of Victoria. He examined the whole topic. This was the most exhaustive inquiry and it produced a report totally condemning  Scientology.  I quote from one of the conclusions: 
Scientology is evil, its techniques evil, its practices a serious threat to the community, medically, morally and socially, and its adherents sadly deluded and even mentally ill. 
If any honourable members have had any experience of  Scientology  they will appreciate what  Mr Anderson  was saying. Certainly most lawyers have had some experience of it. As a result of that report  Scientology  was banned in Victoria. It is also currently banned, as honourable members know, in South Australia  and  Western Australia, although there is some question with  Mr Dunstan  in South Australia as to whether there will be some change in the position in that State. I believe that in these circumstances it is a matter of surprise and of considerable concern that the Opposition Leader in the Senate, who is the shadow Attorney-General - and one would presume that he speaks for the Australian Labor Party - should state now that he favours declaring Scientology a recognised religious denomination under the Commonwealth Marriage Act, and thus recognising it. I believe that this is a matter of concern to all Australians, and I suggest that it certainly would be carrying the permissive society beyond reasonable bounds. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the entry into force of the Five Power Arrangements on 1st November 1971. there has been no occasion to request the convening of a Five Power meeting at Ministerial level. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government consults constantly and informally with Qantas, as Australia's designated international airline and as a company in which the Government is sole shareholder, in the formulation and implementation of policies related to international civil aviation. It would not serve any useful purpose in present circumstances to isolate particular aspects of discussions that took  place  with Qantas in 1965. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has decided not to contribute to the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNEPA) at the present time. 
The amount to be provided will be determined if and when the Government decides to make a contribution to UNFPA. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The people of Laos, including the Meo, are receiving support from the United States in their continuing resistance to North Vietnamese aggression. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
None of it. The report is without foundation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the legislation of Tasmania now satisfies the requirements of the 1950 Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others. 
The practice of my Department is to initiate inquiries with the States upon receipt of a communication from the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The inquiries will be made when the Secretary-General's communication has been received. 
I am informed that recently some amendments were made to the relevant legislation of Queensland and Western Australia. However, the legislation still does not fully satisfy the requirements of the 1965 International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. In Western Australia, section 8 (3) of the Firearms and Guns Act 1931 which discriminated against people of the African or Asian race was repealed in 1971. I understand that consideration is being given to amendments of other laws that discriminate on grounds of race in that State. 
No. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has advised that the present position regarding the four conventions is as follows: 
Nos 87 and 98 - All States having agreed to ratification, the question of Australian ratification is under active consideration. 
No. 100 - The position remains that no State has agreed to ratification. 
No.111 - The position remains that one State has agreed to ratification. The Department of Labour and National Service is currently awaiting advice from the International Labour Office to determine precisely what action this Convention may require in the Australian context. 
The information was supplied to the Secretary-General on 27th October and is contained in United Nations document A/8367 Add 2, available in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report has been drawn to my attention. 
, (3) and (4) It is not the Government's practice to prejudice its good relations with the Arab States and Israel by offering partisan comment or seeking to apportion blame for incidents arising out of the Arab-Israeli dispute. The Government's position is well understood by both parties to the dispute, and presumably also by the honourable member. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consultations with the States first took place on 8th August 1963: the most recent communication was on 14th August 1972. 
While consultations with the States were not specifically referred to in previous replies they were comprehended in the answers given. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I stated inter alia in my reply to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  on 16th May, I asked the Australian Ambassador to Greece for some further advice. From the advice given 1 am of the opinion that the Government is not in a position to take action which interferes in Greek domestic law, or in an internal dispute between the Greek Orthodox Church and the Autocephalic Orthodox Church. Any disabilities which arise from the failure of the Greek authorities to recognise the marriages would be a matter for consideration by Greek Diplomatic or Consular representatives in Australia. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The policy followed in this matter is the same as that stated in answer to the honourable member's question 5581 (15th August 1972). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 5306 appeared in Hansard on 31st August 1972 (page 1112). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The following nuclear weapons treaties have been signed but not yet ratified by Australia: 
Treaty on the non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (signed by Australia 27th February 1970). 
Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and Other 
Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Seabed and the Ocean Floor and in the subsoil. Therefore (signed by Australia 11th February 1971). 
Australia has not yet ratified the following nuclear energy treaty: International Labour Organisation Convention No. US - Radiation Protection Convention 1960. 
The following countries have ratified the abovementioned conventions or have become parties by, accession or succession: 
(a) (i) Afghanistan, Austria, Bolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of China, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, German Democratic Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Holy See, Hungary, Iceland, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,, Khmer Republic, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho. Liberia, Malagasy Republic, Malaysia, Maldive Republic, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, 'Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Romania, San Marino, Senegal, Somalia, Swaziland, Sweden, Syria, Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, USSR, UK, USA, Upper Volta, Uraguay, Vietnam, Yugoslavia, Zaire. 
Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian SSR, Canada, Republic of China, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Laos, Malta, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, Niger, Norway, Poland, Swaziland, Sweden, Togo, Tunisia Ukraine SSR, USSR, UK, USA. 
(b) Barbados, Belgium, Brazil, Byelorussian SSR, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iraq, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Turkey, Ukraine SSR, USSR, UAR, UK. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between I960 and 1965 France conducted a series of nuclear weapons tests in Algeria: in the Sahara at Reggane and in the Hoggar mountains. 
The military clauses of the 1962 Evian agreements, setting out the terms of Algerian independence, granted France the continued use of military installations in Algeria for nuclear testing until 1967. Following a nuclear weapons test on 18th March 1963, the Algerian National Assembly resolved lo seek a revision of the military clauses of the Evian agreements. 
During debate on the presentation of Defence Estimates to the French National Assembly on 8th November 1963, M. Messmer, then Minister of the Armed Forces, said that under the Evian Agreements between France and Algeria testing grounds for nuclear weapons and missiles in the Sahara were available to France only until 1967. M. Messmer said that the French Government had begun looking for new sites in 1962, and work had already begun on the new nuclear centre in French Polynesia. 
The first French Nuclear weapons tests in the South Pacific were held m 1966. 
The following reply has been prepared in consultation with the Minister for Education and Science: 
The proposal for a Unesco Education Congress to be held m Australia originated with the Australian Unesco Committee for Education. This Committee is one of the specialist Committees which, through the Australian National Advisory Committee for Unesco, advise the Government on Australian participation in Unesco activities. The Congress was proposed not as an international meeting with representation from overseas countries but as a national activity. 
The Congress Planning Committee based its proposals on substantial support from nonGovernment sources which was not forthcoming. The Planning Committee then approached the Government for a substantial financial contribution. The contribution sought by the Planning Committee whs, however, well above the level of support normally given for particular Unesco activities and the Government was not able to agree to the request. The Planning Committee has now abandoned its original proposals. 
Considerable importance is attached by the Government to the programme of Unesco activities carried out in Australia. In reaching its decision on the Congress proposal, the Government took into account the need to provide balanced support for significant Australian Unesco activities in science and culture in addition to education. 
In conjunction with its proposals for a Congress, the Planning Committee also put forward a related proposal for an expert Conference on Evaluation in Education. The Minister for Education and Science has indicated that he is prepared to consider financial support for the expert Conference which is expected to be held under the auspices of the Australian Unesco Committee for Education in 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The arrangements concerned were reached during 1970 and were deemed to have come into effect on 1st April 1970. They were codified in an exchange of letters on 9th June 1972 between the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence for Malaysia and the Australian High Commission at Kuala Lumpur made pursuant to the provisions of the exchange of notes between the Government of Australia and the Government of Malaysia on 1st December 1971. 
The texts of the letters exchanged on 9th June 1972, together with appendices specifying charges for rent and essential services, are as follows: 
Australian High Commission KUALA LUMPUR 9th June 1972 Tan Sri Abu Bakar Samad bin Mohd. Noor, P.S.M., Secretary Genera], Ministry of Defence, KUALA LUMPUR 
My dear Secretary-General, 
The Malaysian Government having agreed that part of the Butterworth Air Base be occupied by the Royal Australian Air Force, and that the moveable assets acquired by Malaysia from the United Kingdom in 1970 under the Dudley Arrangement be left in situ for use by the Royal Australian Air Force, 1 have the honour to propose that the following arrangements should apply: 
The Royal Australian Air Force will have the use of buildings and facilities as may be agreed which is subject to change from time to time by mutual agreement. 
In consideration of the use of the said buildings and facilities at the Base by the Royal Australian Air Force Australia will pay Malaysia such charges as may be agreed between them from time to time provided that Malaysia will be responsible for the payment of all quit rent and local authority rates. 
Australia will keep the buildings and facilities assigned for her use in good andtenantable repair and unless otherwise agreed will reinstate or carry out repairs to such buildings or facilities in the Base that may be destroyed or damaged by an act or omission of her personnel, agents or servants. 
Notwithstanding the fact that the Royal Australian Air Force occupies only a portion of the Base, Australia will be responsible for the running of the essential services at the Base inclusive of the area occupied by the Royal Malaysian Air Force. The actual cost of these services will be shared between the 2 Governments. 
Australia will assume the cost of maintaining and providing spare parts for movable assets acquired by Malaysia under the Dudley Arrangement and left in situ at the Base. These moveable assets have been identified and signed for by both the Royal Malaysian Air Force and Royal Australian Air Force authorities at the Base. 
If any of the services or obligations undertaken herein by Australia are not duly performed Malaysia reserves the right after due notice to Australia, to execute the works and be reimbursed by Australia. 
Subject to the prior approval of Malaysia, Australia may construct new facilities and make alterations to facilities as necessary to meet Australian requirements. The cost of such construction or alterations required for entirely Australian use will be borne by Australia. 
Each Government will be responsible for the design and construction of major new works required for the exclusive use of its own forces and will be responsible for the costs incurred. Each Government will also be responsible for the mutual clearance of design features. Arrangements for, and funding of, major new works required for mutual use will be made on a basis of mutual agreement. 
Australia will, on a repayment basis, construct minor new works as requested by Malaysia. 
Australia will have free use of all new buildings, structures and facilities constructed with Australian funds, provided that all fixed assets will become the property of Malaysia upon withdrawal of Australian forces from the Base, without any payment of compensation. 
Australia may not assign or sub-let or part with the whole or part of the area assigned to the Royal Australian Aor Force, provided that with the agreement of Malaysia, New Zealand or United Kingdom Forces may from time to time be present in the Base. 
Australia will make good or pay compensation for any damage to Government property in the Base caused by an act or omission committed in the Base by her personnel, agents or servants and arising from her use of any of the buildings, structures and fixed installations and facilities in the Base or from the performance in the Base of any service in connection therewith by her personnel, agents or servants, and will keep Malaysia fully and effectually indemnified against all costs, charges, expenses, claims, demands and actions in respect of any such damage: 
provided always that Malaysia may in its discretion and after notice in writing to the Government of Australia cause any such damage to be made good and the reasonable cost thereof will be recoverable from the Government of Australia on demand: 
provided also that claims in respect of damage to official vehicles and military aircraft (including aircraft on loan or charter;) will be the subject of negotiations between them. 
Except as expressly provided in sub-paragraph (12) above, claims in expect of damage to private property (being properly lawfully in the Base) or of personal injury or death to any person (being a person lawfully in the base) arising out of an act or omission committed in the Base by a member of the Australian force or civilian component will be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (1) (e) of the Exchange of Notes between the Government of Malaysia and the Government of Australia on 1st December 1971 and of Annex 11 Section 15 to thai Note. 
Measures to provide efficient functioning of the facilities at the Base and to ensure common standards and procedures will be the subject of arrangements between the 2 Governments. 
These Arrangements made pursuant lo the provisions of paragraph 1 (l)(e) of the Exchange of Notes between the Government of Malaysia and the Government of Australia on 1st December 1971 relating to defence arrangements, will be deemed to have come into effect as from the 1st day of April 1970. 
These Arrangements are subject to review as may be required from time to lime by either Government. 
If the foregoing is acceptable lo the Government of Malaysia, 1 have the honour to propose that this letter and your reply lo that effect will constitute the Arrangements between the 2 Governments in this matter. 
Yours sincerely, 
R. ROWLAND 
High Commissioner 
Ministry of Defence KUALA LUMPUR 9lh June 1972 
E.  Mr .1.  R. Rowland, 
High Commissioner for Australia, Australian High Commission, KUALA LUMPUR 
My dear High Commissioner, 
1 refer to your letter of today's date about the Collocation Arrangements relating to the use of buildings and facilities by the Royal Australian Air Force at the Butterworth Air Base the terms of which are as follows: (Herewith follows the text of the letter sent by the Australian High Commissioner in Malaysia to the Malaysian Secretary-General of Defence). 2. In reply, I confirm that your letter correctly states the understanding between the Government of Australia and the Government of Malaysia and in accordance with the proposal contained therein your letter and this reply will constitute the Arrangements between our 2 Governments. 
Yours sincerely, 
TAN SRI SAMAD NOOR 
Secretary-General 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No annual volumes of Acts have been reprinted since the statement was made on 25th February 1971. The amount necessary to reprint the annual volumes that are out of print or in short supply has been included in the Budget estimates for 1972-73. Since the statement was made, the following Acts have been reprinted incorporating all amendments to the date of reprinting: 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have received a letter from  Mrs Samootin  detailing certain actions by her solicitors in Queensland, which I have interpreted as a complaint. 
I have advised her that any complaint regarding the conduct of her solicitors should be referred by her to the Queensland Law Society. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following countries participated in the 4th conference of non-aligned countries in Georgetown in August 1972: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The list of international conventions has been brought up to date but an examination of the amount of work necessary to consolidate the information has indicated that it would involve considerable time and expense which would not be warranted, particularly since the list was consolidated as recently as 1970. 
In relation to Part A of the answer given by my predecessor, on 12th June 1970 and of my answer of 18th August 1971, the following information is provided in relation to international conventions drawn up under the auspices of the General Assembly of the United Nations and of the Specialised Agencies: 
Convention on Liability for Damage caused by Objects Launched into Outer Space. 
This Convention was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 29th November 1971 and Australia supported it. Australia has not signed the Convention but this question is under consideration. It has not yet entered into force. 
Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Seabed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil thereof. 
This Treaty entered into force on 18th May 1972. 
Convention on the Prohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of bacteriological (biological) and toxic weapons and on their destruction. 
This Convention was drawn up under the auspices of the General Assembly on 16th December 1971. Australia signed the Convention on 10th April 1972 and the question of Australia's becoming a party to it is under consideration. The Convention has not yet entered into force. 
Item Nos 56, 61 and 86. 
The question of Australia's becoming a party to these Conventions is presently under consideration. 
Item No. 84. 
Australia became a party to this Convention on 15th June 1972. 
Item No. 98. 
Australia has ratified this Convention and will be a party as from 12th December 1972. 
Items Nos 104 and 105. 
The Conventions entered into force on 19th January 1972 and 27th May 1972 respectively. 
Minimum Wage Fixing Convention No. 131 1970, adopted at Geneva 22nd June 1970, entered into force on 29th April 1972. 
Hague Convention for the Suppression of the Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft. 
The Convention entered into force on 14th October 1971. 
Protocol of Amendment to Article 50(A) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation (Chicago 1944) 12th March 1971, New York. 
Australia deposited its Instrument of Ratification on 15th December 1971. The Protocol has not yet entered into force. 
Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of Civil Aviation. 
This Convention was drawn up under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organisation at Montreal on 23rd September 1971 and Australia supported it. Australia has not signed this Convention. The Convention has not yet entered into force. The question of Australia's becoming a party to this Convention is under consideration. 
Protocol of Amendment of Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation. 
This Protocol was drawn up at Vienna on 7th February 1971 and Australia supported it. Australia has not yet signed the Protocol but this question is under consideration. It has not yet entered into force. 
Convention for the Protection of Producers of Phonograms against Unauthorised Duplication of their Phonograms. 
This Convention was drawn up on 29th October 1971 under the auspices of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation and the World Intellectual Property Organisation. The Convention has not yet entered into force. Australia supported its adoption. The question of Australia's becoming a party to the Convention is under consideration. 
Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the Universal Postal Union and other related Instruments, opened for signature on 14th November 1969. Australia deposited its Instrument of Ratification on 12th November 1971. 
The following Conventions were drawn up under the auspices of the InterGovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation: 
1971 Amendments to the International Convention on Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil 1954 (as amended 1962). 
These amendments were drawn up at London on 12th and 15th October 1971 and Australia supported them. The Convention as amended has not yet entered into force. The question of Australia's becoming a party to it is under consideration. 
1969 Amendments to the Convention on Facilitation of International Maritime Traffic 1965. 
These Amendments were drawn up at London in 1969 and Australia supported them. The Convention as amended, entered into force on 12th August 1971 and the question of Australia's becoming a party to it is under consideration. 
1971 Amendments to the International Convention on Load Lines 1966. 
These Amendments were drawn up at London on 12th October 1971 and Australia supported them. The Convention as amended has not yet entered into force. The question of Australia's becoming a party to it is under consideration. 
1971 Amendments to the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea 1960. 
These Amendments were drawn up at London on 12th October 1971. The amended Convention has not yet entered into force. The question of Australia's becoming a party to the amended Convention is under consideration. 
Special Trade Passenger Ships Agreement 1971. 
This Agreement was drawn up at London on 6th October 1971. The Agreement has not yet entered into force. Australia was not represented at the conference at which the Agreement was drawn up. 
Convention relating to Civil Liability in the field of Maritime Carriage of Nuclear Material. 
This Convention was drawn up at Brussels on 17th December 1971. Australia abstained in the vote by which the Convention was adopted. The Convention has not yet entered into force. 
Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage. 
This Convention was drawn up on 18th December 1971 and Australia supported it. Australia has not signed the Convention and the question of Australia's becoming a party to it is under consideration. The Convention has not yet entered into force. 
In relation to part C of the answer given by my predecessor on 12th June 1970 and of my answer of 18th August 1971 the following information is provided: 
Item No. 2 - to column headed 'Parties' add: India 
Palestine delete: Austria 
Note should read: Denmark and France are not parties to the Additional Protocol and India has denounced the Convention. 
Item No. 4 - to column headed 'Parties' add: Surinam 
Curacao delete: Lebanon 
Malagasy Republic (iii)Item No. 8 - to column headed 'Parties' add: Poland 
Item No. 11 - to column headed 'Parties' add: Yugoslavia delete: Lebanon 
In dealing with the first part of the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition, 1 may say that I have not had an opportunity to see any of the advice of Professor O'Connell which has been obtained by State governments and forwarded to the Attorney-General. However, I will refer this matter to my colleague  Senator Greenwood. 
This advice certainly has not yet been put under scrutiny by me. I will see whether my colleague the Attorney-General has received a copy of the opinion and had it under scrutiny. I do not know whether he has. It certainly would be a very novel proceeding in international law, as the honourable gentleman will be aware, and I certainly would study any such proposition with very considerable interest. The second part of the honourable gentleman's question related to contact with countries in the Pacific. Of course, from time to time we have been in consultation with other countries in the Pacific. I have just been in consultation with the 5 island governments which form the South Pacific Forum, and also with New Zealand. We have confirmed our attitude towards these tests. Very warm support was given by the South Pacific countries to the initiative of Australia and of New Zealand involving the calling of a meeting in New York next week - I think the tentative date fixed is Tuesday of next week - when Pacific countries interested in this matter under the lead of Australia and New Zealand will be discussing initiatives in the United Nations. 
These matters have come to my attention and that of my colleague. The growing use of terror and even murder for the bringing of political or even industrial pressure is a matter of concern in Australia. It not only affects interests in other countries. Other countries, of course, are experiencing similar kinds of problems. I believe that any full inquiry into the matter would need, if it were practicable, to take account of the whole spectrum of violence for the purpose of bringing industrial and political blackmail. 
My attention has been drawn to these allegations, and as recently as this morning I have had discussions with the Yugoslav Ambassador,  Mr Vidovic.  relating to the incidents in Australia and also to the assertions in relation to Australians in Yugoslavia. I would put to the House that the canvassing of bald assertion or the canvassing of someone's deeply held belief without the support of proof or evidence is only likely to create difficulty. The bombings that have occurred in Australia and any allegations in relation to activities in Yugoslavia are matters affecting Australia's national position with Yugoslavia. They are matters affecting the Australian people as a whole. They are not matters that should become the occasion of seeking any party political advantage. The Australian Government will treat quite seriously the allegations that have been put to it by the Yugoslav 
Government, supported by an aidememoire in relation to what that Government says is taking place in Australia. We are carefully investigating that matter. We are presently considering the suggestions that have been put to us quite recently in regard to allegations relating to Australians in Yugoslavia. No note or protest has been made at this stage to the Yugoslav Government. The matter is still at the stage of the Australian Government considering what has been asserted in that regard. 
In speaking for the Government I wish to express our deep concern, in fact our horror, at the bombing which occurred in Sydney last Saturday. As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  mentioned at question time this morning, immediately he learned of the incident he visited the area where it took place and also visited in hospital the men who had been injured. The Prime Minister has since kept in close touch with the progress of the police investigations. These investi gations are being conducted by a high level team from the New South Wales Police Force. The Commonwealth Police Force is assisting so far as lies in its power. We must all hope that these police inquiries will prove successful in revealing the truth of this matter and that they will lead to the apprehension and ultimate conviction of whoever was responsible for the outrage. We must hope that that is so, not only because of this particular case but also for our safety generally. If there is one thing that the law has taught me it is that in the certainty and speed of detection and apprehension is the greatest deterrent to crime. 
We have to find an effective deterrent to this kind of violence and terrorism. If we do not, the orderliness of our society and the everyday safety which as citizens we are entitled to expect may well be threatened. As I said earlier - and the Leader of the Opposition has quoted meAustralia is one of the safe countries of the world where one can walk the streets freely. People who have travelled around the world know that that is not true in many other countries. We have to see that we can keep Australia this way. There has been a succession of violent acts in recent times. Reference has been made to these acts and I agree that they are a cause of real concern. The Government for its part will do everything in its power to find and root out the beginnings of any cult of political terror in Australia. I ask our citizens to realise and to accept that they all have a stake and an interest in supporting and assisting the police and all organs . of law enforcement to ensure that this, sort of situation does not get out of hand in Australia. 
Coming back to the bombing in Sydney, I think it is important also that we in this House should do nothing or say nothing which might in some way have the result of impeding the proper progress of the inquiries of the police. We do not want public discussion of this matter blown up to proportions which might tend to deter some people from speaking freely to the police. We consider it undesirable to have a full scale debate on this matter while the police inquiries are in progress. In those circumstances the Government will oppose the motion to suspend Standing Orders. At the close of my remarks it is intended to put the matter to a vote. 
However, before I close I believe I should make some comment on some of the wider questions which have been raised. On 16th August the Yugoslav Ambassador saw me to protest against the activities of alleged Ustasha terrorist organisations in Australia. He left me with a substantial aide-memoire giving names and some details for investigation by the Australian Government. Since then, most active steps have been taken to investigate the allegations and material placed before us. Searches have been made, documents have been seized and individuals have been questioned. This investigation is still proceeding but is not yet complete. It will be carried to its conclusion with resolution by the Government. 
Today the Yugoslav Ambassador called to see me again and conveyed his Government's view that the bombing in Sydney demonstrated, as he said, that the Australian Government had not undertaken efficient measures for the prevention of terrorism on Australian grounds to be used against Yugoslavia. I pointed out to the Ambassador that not only were we pursuing our investigations into the material placed before us but we have also devoted considerable resources to the protection of the Yugoslav Embassy and consulates. We had had no reason to anticipate the attack which occurred at commercial premises in Sydney, The Ambassador expressed some concern at some allegations of terrorist activity being described by my colleague the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  as groundless. I pointed out that earlier allegations made by private individuals when investigated by the police had indeed proved groundless, but that the allegations in his aide-memoire were still under investigation and the Government was not yet in a position to state a judgment on them, one way or the other. I do not read what my colleague  Senator Greenwood  has said in his statements as having amounted to the passing of judgment on the allegations and the material contained in the aide-memoire. I have not in any sense intended to rebuke him in respect of that matter. 
I suggest to the Ambassador, as I did to the House this morning, that the constant assertion of allegations or the assertion of beliefs, however strongly held by anyone, did not assist in this matter. What is required is ascertainment of the facts. What is required is ascertainment of the truth. When that is established the Government will act on the basis of the facts and the truth which have been revealed. I mentioned that some allegations and material had been placed before the Government suggesting activity by Yugoslav agents and again the Government would not accept mere allegations or assertions. It would investigate these allegations and this material, again with the object of ascertaining the facts. 
One result of the barrage of allegations and assertions which have been made has been as the Leader of the Opposition mentioned in his speech, to cast a shadow upon Yugoslav migrants which they did not deserve to have cast upon them. Australia has welcomed its migrants from Yugoslavia. We have found them to be hard working and courageous people who have become good and useful citizens of Australia. It is unfortunate that the actions of a few people can do damage to innocent people in this way. The Government wishes to make it clear that it will do its utmost to discharge its obligation to protect the Yugoslav Embassy and consulates. It will certainly not permit its territory to be used for the training or preparation of any group which is engaged in an attempt to subvert or overthrow the Government of any country with which we have friendly relations. We welcome migrants, but we wish them to leave their political hatreds behind them. 
Finally,  Mr Speaker,  may I say that Australia will join with other countries in seeking solutions to this problem which is evidencing itself in very many countries around the world. We are aware of the tragedy which occurred at Munich. We believe that at the current assembly of the United Nations this matter will be raised with a view to the nations combining their efforts to find a solution to this world wide problem of political blackmail by terror and murder. At the coming assembly of the United Nations Australia will seek to play its part also in this wider field. 
The AttorneyGeneral  has  supplied the following answer  to the  honourable member's question: 
No; but consideration of both matters is proceeding. 
I was proposing to seek leave of the House tomorrow to make a statement of a general character on Government aid and to table a detailed statement on all the programmes of aid to all countries which I think honourable members - and I hope the public of Australia - will find of considerable assistance in considering Australia's aid programmes. Dealing with Bangladesh, in answer to the honourable member I think T should inform the House that our aid programme there has not been insubstantial. In addition to the very substantial aid which Australia gave when the refugees from East Pakistan were in India we have given food and medical supplies, shelter in the form of corrugated iron and 4-wheel drive trucks, to the value of $3m direct to Bangladesh. Shipment of a further gift of 40,000 metric tons of wheat worth more than $2m which is specifically wanted is being arranged today, During our parliamentary recess I was in Bangladesh and discussed the question of aid with Sheikh Mujib and Foreign Minister Samad. As honourable members will know, a shipment of wheat had arrived a week before my visit. On the day I was there 46 4-wheel drive trucks arrived from Australia. This was meeting the particular problem they had. They said that the food position would improve by November but in the meantime they needed transport. Their boats, their railways and their trucks had been destroyed and they had difficulty in distributing the food they were getting. So these 4-whcel drive vehicles were useful. In addition we have given them a Hercules aircraft which we have chartered at a cost of $250,000, to assist in the distribution of supplies to remote areas of Bangladesh. Also we have dry chartered 2 Fokker Friendship aircraft for 12 months at a cost of $400,000. At the same time we are continuing our aid in respect of providing places for the training of their students and we have made a cash distribution to the United Nations. So I do not think anyone could say that Australia's aid has been insignificant or insubstantial. I know from personal contact with the Bangladesh leaders that our aid is deeply appreciated, intensely practical and is reaching the areas of need. There is no reason for Australia to compare its aid with the estimated total requirement of $ 1,200m or for anyone to suggest that Australia as a single country should try to match its aid against that total. 
-I do not know to what extent there is general communication on Australian aid throughout the 75 million people in Bangladesh. I know that communication has been one of the things that have greatly suffered. In reply to the specific aspects of the honourable member's question, I am not able to answer affirmatively as to marks on trucks. I think the suggestion contained in the question is an excellent one and I will certainly investigate it. It has been found that the kangaroo emblem has been readily recognised in South East Asia when displayed instead of written information. I will explore the suggestion. One has to be very careful because in the case of aid given by some other countries 1 understand that at the wharves a third country put its own marks on goods or equipment and got some of the credit for aid given by an entirely different country. That has not occurred with Australian aid. I will follow up the suggestion in the question and see whether our aid is identified in the way that the honourable member has suggested. 
Speaking on a world wide basis, I do not think it would be profitable at question time to go into something which, as the honourable member knows, goes back deep into the history of these people. That part of the world has been called the cockpit of Europe. The honourable member is well aware of the racial hatreds which date back to the First World War, which persisted through the Second World War and the aftermath of that war, and which still exist amongst the people in that area. But coming to the position in Australia, I think my colleague the AttorneyGeneral has been misrepresented in this regard. From time to time assertions and allegations have been made by individuals. The Attorney-General has had these followed up by having police interview these people to obtain evidence in support of what they say. Some individuals have been interviewed a number of times, and by very senior police officers. On each occasion they have not been able to produce evidence to support the allegations that they were making. That was the position at the time of the delivery to me of the aide memoire by the Yugoslav Ambassador, which I received on behalf of the Australian Government. The position in respect of that aide memoire is that it did name certain individuals. It did indicate certain areas that ought to be investigated, and it sought to provide certain details of evidence. 
I am answering the question. These are the matters of inquiry and the honourable member knows very well that this inquiry has been prosecuted with resolution. There have been searches; people have been questioned; documents have been seized and they are currently being studied. They have to be translated. Tt is as a result of this inquiry into the facts that the Government will seek to arrive at the truth of the matter, and it will act only on the truth, not on this kind of assertion that constantly has been made and which time and again has been shown to be put forward falsely. I give one example: It was stated to us that training was taking place in a particular area and people were being taught the use of weapons. When carefully investigated this was found to be the operation of a perfectly harmless and normal rifle club. 
 I want to refer to some of the remarks made by honourable members who have spoken on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  spoke in favour of Australia having a Bill of Rights. The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  has already made some remarks about this, and I agree with him that the name is an honoured one coming from way back in English history. When we hear it mentioned we have a sense of feeling that it might be a good thing to have. I do not want to enter into a full debate on what is a very large question. As the question has been raised, I think it is worth mentioning one or two things that have to be considered by anyone who wants to put constitutional guarantees into force in this country or in another country. 
When our founding fathers drafted the Constitution of this country they had before them the model of the American Constitution. The American Constitution contains constitutional guarantees. Our founding fathers had to decide whether, in drafting our Constitution, we would adopt constitutional guarantees similar to those in the Bill of Rights. They made the deliberate decision to follow the English system and not the American system. I think it needs to be shown by anyone who asserts that we should now have constitutional guarantees that they are the better system, because difficulties arise in practice with this type of guarantee. In the first place we find our right- right of free speech, right of free association or whatever it may be - suddenly converted into a legal right and we have to bring a court case to put it into force. That court case may take us to the High Court. Some countries which have adopted a Bill of Rights with constitutional guarantees have found that the number of cases in the courts endeavouring to enforce constitutional rights so guaranteed have accumulated to a point where it takes a very long time for the cases to come on. In one country it takes 12 years for a case to come on. It has 80,000 cases still to be heard. This is the sort of right which it is not worth having. 
There is another factor concerning the sort of right we have. I take a particular illustration. In Brisbane a couple of years ago Customs officers made an entry into someone's house at about 9 o'clock at night searching for drugs but in circumstances in which they should not have been making the entry. There could have been a constitutional guarantee about that and that person could have brought an action to enforce a legal right. It would have taken a year or two and a lot of money and it might eventually have come on and been heard. What happened under our system? A question was directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise within 24 hours about the incident, and when it was found that the Customs people were at fault not only was the fault rectified but the Minister himself was under extreme pressure and eventually there were questions as to whether he should resign. This is a much more effective right. 
Of course it is. If people have a guaranteed right the Minister only has to say: 'You have your right there. I will not interfere with that right.' People can then take action under their constitutional guarantee. This is the way in which such a system has in fact been working. It is true that some new countries have adopted a Bill of Rights. I refer particularly to those countries that do not have the same traditions and habits of thought as we have inherited. We did not create them but we inherited them, and these are the things that protect the freedom of the individual, the freedom of the Press and the freedom of association. We know what they mean. They are complex, subtle ideas and we give the remedy in the court through the writ of habeas corpus and the Minister gives effect to the remedy in the Parliament. It is the remedy that is effective. It is the habit of thought and tha understanding of these principles that are important. I suggest that those who seek to put their rights into the realm of legal guarantee should ask themselves whether they would be giving the citizens a better and higher right than they have under the current system. 
There is another matter. Once we attempt to reduce an idea as subtle and as complex as the idea of freedom of the Press or freedom of speech into a few lines in a statute, we in practice find that we are subjected to the interpretation placed on that by a court and a judge. We are bound by that and we cannot remove the judge as we can remove a Minister or a member of Parliament. Once we are stuck with the interpretation of that it is there and we cannot change it. Not only that but we have subjected ourselves to an extraordinary situation. For example, under the American guarantee of the freedom of the Press and freedom of speech the person who relies on that constitutional guarantee might not be the one whom it was intended to protect. There is the instance of the pressman in America who stole property and who, when he was charged with stealing, relied as a defence on the constitutional guarantee. He said that he stole the property for publication in the Press and that therefore the Constitution protected him against prosecution for stealing. 
We subject ourselves to the tyranny of words. These ideas are so subtle and complex that they are very difficult to put into a Bill of Rights. I have assisted some countries in drawing a Bill of Rights. One country was a country to which we gave independence. The honourable member for McPherson will remember this. Four pages of guarantees relating to civil rights were, written into the constitution of that country. But I think I would rather be living here under the protection of our traditions, our habits of thoughts and our rules of law than under a constitution guaranteeing those rights. Those are. only ideas that I throw forward. A full debate could be developed on them. If we value our freedoms that have been referred to we should think about whether we will necessarily increase them or improve them by writing them into the form of a constitutional guarantee. 
The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  spoke of the high cost of divorce and the question of legal aid. I would only say in relation. to his speech that we should remember that a Senate inquiry on constitutional and legal affairs is proceeding and the committee of inquiry is taking evidence on the question of family law reform. One of the matters it is looking into is this question of divorce costs. We hope to get from the report of that Senate committee some useful information on the subject to which the honourable member referred in his speech. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  referred to  a  company into which he said that a person who had written to him had put some money which he had lost. He criticised the AttorneyGeneral for not in some way having taken action in respect of this matter. I am not aware of the facts of the case to which the honourable gentleman has referred, but  I  offer the suggestion to him that if the company is registered under the Queensland Companies Act it would be a matter for the Queensland Attorney-General if there has been  a  breach of the law as distinct from just  a  bad investment. If it is a matter which it is thought ought to be considered by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, there is no requirement of locus standi to bring the matter before the Committee. The honourable gentleman himself could put  a  case to that Committee for consideration, although it appears to be engaged now in drawing up its report rather than in taking further evidence, or indeed the person who wrote to him could bring that matter before the Secretary of the Committee. I offer that suggestion to the honourable member. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has been having trouble with his car. I am not sure whether the story he related is a biography or fiction. The Australian security service is not concerned with breaches of State law, and if the gentleman to whom the honourable member spoke was an officer of the true Australian security service he was acting beyond the powers of his statute. The statute of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation requires it to be concerned with the security of Australia, and the security of Australia is defined in the statute as referring to espionage, sabotage and subversion. 
I have difficulty in relating the matter of the honourable member's car to these 3 topics. 
But the honourable gentleman does raise a matter of substance in relation to reports on individuals. There are not a great many of these reports but it was  a  matter of concern, I know, during the period when I was Attorney-General as to whether there should not be some form of appeal where  a  person's rights had been affected by a report. This is a very difficult subject matter. The natural leaning of a lawyer is towards giving some right of appeal in such circumstances. There are advantages and disadvantages in the public interest either way, of which I am sure the honourable member for Grayndler will be aware. There are also cases where the source of the information presents in itself  a  difficulty as one perhaps would be revealing a source that one would never be able to use again in the security service if one gave evidence on it, at any rate in public. It is a serious matter and I am sure the fact that the honourable member has raised it will cause it to be considered again. Certainly, the matter will be passed to my colleague in another place. 
It is true that when I was Attorney-General I was involved in the framing of a proposal for the establishment of an institute of the law of the sea which would give special training in this field and which perhaps at a later point of time would widen its field to cover training in international law, supplying experts in that field not only to the legal profession and the universities but also to the AttorneyGeneral's Department and to the Department of Foreign Affairs. Australia's increasing contacts with the world on all these subjects, including such complex ones as the law of the sea, require that we have the best advice we can obtain. Some progress was made, but I will have to refer to my colleague the Attorney-General in another place to ascertain the present state of play, if I can use that term. I know that difficulties have been experienced. Whether the matter will be proceeding now is not within my knowledge. An expert that I had in mind has accepted a professional appointment in the United Kingdom. 
Yes. He is no longer available. I will refer this matter to my colleague and see what information he can provide. 
The South Pacific Forum consisting of the 5 South Pacific island leaders and representatives from Australia and New Zealand naturally was particularly concerned. I have already referred to the fact that there was a discussion on the French nuclear tests at a recent meeting of the South Pacific Forum. Perhaps for the information of honourable members I could add - and I think it is worth mentioning this to put the matter into perspective - that in having this discussion the Forum had before it the results formulated by New Zealand scientists of the fallout in relation to the last test. Here I want to draw a distinction between the actual position and the potential position in regard to fallout. This distinction is not always drawn. Fears are created because of discussion of potentialities which ought not to flow from a discussion of actualities. 
The scientific advice to the Forum on the recent tests was based on 3 conparisons. Firstly it was said that the level of fallout was equivalent to that given off when a man wore an illuminated wristlet watch. Secondly the level was equivalent to a person spending a day in a brick or stone house. Thirdly it was equivalent to someone spending 30 hours over a period of a year in a jet aircraft. These examples represent the equivalent effect that a human being would be subjected to as a result of the recent fallout according to New Zealand scientists in the Pacific. 
This advice did not lead the Forum to say that in any way we would moderate the great strength of our opposition to these tests being conducted in the Pacific. The basis on which this protest is persisted in is that we are opposed to the increase of nuclear weapons of war wherever they are; we are opposed to the cumulative effect of fallout as pollution in the atmosphere of the Earth; and we are opposed to the cumulative effect which may ultimately become a hazard to health. For these reasons we intend to persist in our protest. This was the common view of all at the Forum. The Forum supported, as I said in my previous answer, the initiative which Australia and New Zealand proposed to take at the United Nations on this matter. A meeting of interested Pacific nations is listed for next Tuesday when I will be in New York. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the 7th interim report of the Company Law Advisory Committee. This report deals with the registration of charges given by companies. The report was received just before the last  meeting of the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State AttorneysGeneral and has yet to be the subject of full consideration by the Standing Committee. Pending that consideration, the Government has not made decisions in regard to the recommendations contained in the report. 
by leave - Since 1945 Australia has spent $1.8 billion on aid. In the last decade official development assistance has more than trebled from $64m in 1961-62 to $200m last financial year. This year it is expected to reach $200m. We have consistently been among the first three or four of the major aid donors, with a figure for direct government aid averaging 0.56 per cent of gross national product over the last 4 financial years. At the same time other financial transfers including export credits, private investment and voluntary contributions to developing countries have also grown substantially. When added to the figures for direct government aid, these become the basis of the calculation used by those advo cating a foreign aid target of one per cent of GNP. We believe this method is open to some criticism as an indicator of genuine aid. However, on this basis Australia last year again exceeded the target with a total financial flow of 1.27 per cent of GNP. 
These are the straightforward facts: They clearly show that in comparison with other Western donors the proportion of our resources allocated is high. In other material which I shall seek leave to table as an annex to this statement I shall explain the basis and motivation for aid programmes; the reasons why those programmes are important to Australia; the important part they play in the joint international effort for the economic development of developing countries; and what we believe to be the high quality and effectiveness of our aid programmes. I shall follow this with a short description of the main programmes and forms of aid under which our development assistance is given. In addition, in another section of the annex I also propose to provide material I have had prepared giving details of our programmes in each country to which we give aid as well as a new collation of informative statistical material. 
en - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When Greek-bom Australian citizens, holding dual Australian and Greek nationality, enter Greek territory their Greek nationality predominates and accordingly they become subject to Greek law. Liability for military service is a matter of Greek law and the Australian Government has no standing to intercede in matters of Greek law and its application to persons in Greece who have Greek nationality. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) No. (b) No. 
See answer to (I). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The following is the text of the reply which has been conveyed to the Secretary-General: 
Australia has sought to uphold the aims, purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. Australia believes that the objectives of the Charter, drafted some 27 years ago at the San Francisco Conference, remain relevant today and that events since 1945 have served to underline the importance of adherence to the Charter. 
Australia shares the interest of member states in enhancing the effectiveness of the United Nations. The Charter is a treaty which has shown an appropriate capacity for adaptation to changing circumstances. But the Charter is not selfexecuting. Its implementation depends on the willingness of member slates to work through the United Nations and to abide by the Charter. The achievement of a more effective United Nations depends in the first instance on the member states themselves rather than on any suggestion for reviewing the Charter. 
Great care should be exercised in considering proposals to amend or review the Charter. Any review of or amendment to the Charter should be aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the organisation as the instrument for realising the purposes and principles already set out in Chapter 1 of the Charter. It follows from this that proposals must enjoy widespread support among member states and, in particular, the support of those member states who, by virtue of their permanent membership of the Security Council, have special responsibilities for the implementation of the Charter. 
For these reasons Australia does not favour proposals that might lead to a wholesale review of the Charter. At the same time, Australia does not regard the Charter as an inviolable document to which no amendment is possible. Developments since the time the Charter came into force may require certain limited and specific amendments additional to those which have already been accepted. Thus, Australia is prepared to consider carefully and constructively, on their merits, specific proposals for review of or amendment to the Charter. 
The Sixth Committee of the General Assembly, at its next session, might examine the SecretaryGeneral's report on this subject, with a view to recommending an appropriate course of action.' 
The Sub-committee dealing with Indonesia is doing a very useful job and my Department is giving it every assistance. However, it is dealing with general relations between Australia and Indonesia and has no authority whatsoever to negotiate an international agreement relating to boundaries, or any authority or interest in this matter. 
For these reasons I did not consult the Sub-committee before going to a foreign country to negotiate an international agreement. Indeed, the Subcommittee was not sufficiently interested to express any desire to see me before I did so or while these negotiations were in progress. I hope that no practice will arise where the responsible Minister cannot negotiate with another country without having first to consult a committee. 
-I have seen the report and I think it is probable that the French will be testing in the Pacific next year. We have sought confirmation of the aspect of the report which suggested the French would explode a very large bomb in the Pacific next year. We have not been able to obtain any confirmation of that report. On Tuesday when I was in New York I arranged a meeting, with New Zealand, the Latin American countries, the Asian countries which border the Pacific, the Pacific countries including Fiji, Canada and Japan. There were 15 in all. We had before us a draft resolution to go before the General Assembly. This was again before the leaders of the various missions on 5th October and a small working party of four was appointed to iron out some differences between the delegations as to wording. 
We are united in thinking that we should bring this before the General Assembly as soon as possible in another effort to marshal world opinion against the holding of weapons tests in the atmosphere -and particularly in the Pacific region. However, I have noticed reports today that the vice-president of the Australian Council of Trade Unions is offering to conduct Australia's foreign policy in relation to trade with France. Any action on trade needs to be very carefully considered. The record on sanctions applied against countries, even where most other countries have combined to impose economic sanctions, is a very sorry one in terms of the effects the sanctions have produced. In the case of one country, such as Australia, taking this action alone in a situation where it exports to France twice as much as France exports to it, the action would be counter-productive. Our exports to New Caledonia exceeded $22m last year but exports from that country to Australia were of the order of $500,000. So the result of imposing a ban would be to throw Australians out of work and damage Australian businesses. If necessary the Government will put trade on one side if there is a practical and effective way of bringing pressure to bear, but New Zealand; Australia and these other countries believe that this is not a practical and effective way. The action proposed by the trade union movement is just another attempt by it to usurp the foreign policy function of this Government. 
The answer to the last part of the question by the honourable member for Mitchell is that the permits have not been substantially affected. I will seek leave - I hope some time later today - to make a statement and to table the agreement which has been arrived at with Indonesia. Therefore I will not expand on the position now beyond saying that I think it is agreed on all hands in Djakarta that the negotiations by the delegation for Australia have been brilliantly conducted. Originally the Indonesians sought a median line between Timor and Australia. Australia was arguing for the depths of the deep trough about 50 miles off Timor. The line which has been arrived at is about 60 miles off Timor. We will have on our side of the boundary waters 200 to 300 miles distant from Australia. This, however, results in a small fraction being taken off the area in which Woodside Burmah has an exploration permit, and perhaps a very small fraction will be taken from Arco Aquitaine. Arrangements have been made, as honourable members will see in the agreement, for protection in respect of those. But I emphasise that the boundary arrived at is at all points beyond the 200 metres depth line and is therefore in relatively deep water. At one point the depth is 600 metres. The areas conceded are not valuable areas, even small as they are. I think some give and take was required. There is an old saying that good fences make good neighbours, and I think that in international affairs good boundaries make good neighbours. The Indonesians are satisfied with the line; we are satisfied with it, and I believe it will hold as an historic boundary between our 2 countries. 
-I must say that on my flight back from Djakarta last night I read the file on this matter, which is many inches thick, I would give an immediate answer if only I had retained the particular dates which the Leader of the Opposition requests. I will seek advice from my Department on the particular matters that he has raised. Just how quickly I can give him the information I cannot say, but certainly I will not delay the matter. I shall get the information as soon as practicable. 
 by  leave. - I wish to make a statement to the House on the agreement reached with Indonesia. I table the text of the agreement between the Government of the. Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia establishing certain seabed boundaries in the area of the Timor and Arafura seas. It is supplementary to the agreement of 18th May 1971. I also table a map showing the boundary which has been agreed. The agreement which we have just reached with Indonesia is one which should give us great satisfaction for a number of reasons. In the first place, it has removed a potential source of disagreement between Australia and Indonesia, our close neighbour, and has thus contributed materially to the strengthening of friendly relations with that country, which for us are vitally important. 
In the second place, the agreement has finally removed the uncertainty which prospecting companies were facing regarding the limits of Australia's national authority over the seabed in this area. In the third place, it has secured for Australia by far the greater extent of the seabed area in which Australia had already granted exploration permits under Australian legislation. I need not elaborate on the importance of good relations with Indonesia. I will say only that the negotiations which led up to the agreement were conducted in a most amicable atmosphere on both sides. I believe that my attendance in Djakarta yesterday was regarded by the Indonesian Government as an indication of the importance which we attach to our relations with Indonesia in general and to this agreement in particular. 
The agreement is a concrete demonstration of our determination to put substance and content into our relationship with Indonesia, as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made clear this year in his meetings with  President  Suharto. I draw the attention of the House to the third preambular paragraph of the agreement which states that the 2 governments 'resolving as good neighbours and in a spirit of co-operation and friendship to settle permanently the limits of the areas' have agreed to the articles which follow. It will be obvious that so long as uncertainty remained regarding the limits of Australia's jurisdiction in that area, that uncertainty would be a factor inhibiting the operations not only of those companies which already hold permits but also of others which might become interested in the. future. The agreement has finally removed this element of uncertainty and has thus given the green light to exploration organisations to proceed in the knowledge of precisely where the seabed boundary lies. 
I come now to the substance of the agreement and to its effects. First, it represents a mutually acceptable accommodation of Australia's and Indonesia's respective claims to sovereign rights over seabed resources in the area concerned. I have every confidence - and the same sentiments were expressed yesterday by Professor Soemantri, who signed for Indonesia - that the agreement will be permanent. The new boundary is as defined in articles 1 and 2. Second, it will be noted from article 4 that the 2 governments mutually acknowledge the sovereign rights of each government in and over tha seabed within the limits established by this agreement and that they will cease to claim or exercise sovereign rights over natural resources beyond the boundaries now established. 
Third, so far as Australia is concerned, we retain the whole of our 200-metre continental shelf. The importance of countries' retaining sovereign rights, at the very least out to the 200-metre depth line, has been emphasised by Australia in the law of the sea discussions in the United Nations. Indeed, in many parts of the Timor and Tanimbar seabed areas the boundary now agreed is some way down the southern slope of the Timor Trough. Fourth, in the Tanimbar area no existing Australian permits are affected. In the sourthern area, opposite Indonesian Timor, 6 permits are affected. Five of these are affected to a very small extent only and only one rather more extensively. All the areas affected are in the deeper water. 
Fifth, the Indonesian Government has recognised the position of the existing holders of Australian permits. These permittees have the right within 9 months of ratification of the agreement to make application to the Indonesian authorities. If they do so, they will be offered by Indonesia a production sharing contract over the same area on terms no less favourable than those contained in existing Indonesian production sharing contracts. If the companies do not make application, or if after negotiation an offer by Indonesia is not accepted, the Government of Indonesia will have no further obligation in respect of that particular permit. 
There are other articles, more of a machinery nature. I should also mention article 7 which provides that if a petroleum deposit is found which extends beyond the boundary, and if this deposit could be recovered in whole or in part from one side of the boundary, the 2 governments will seek to reach agreement on the manner of exploitation and the equitable sharing of benefits arising therefrom. This is a customary and indeed necessary provision in international agreements of this nature. I should also direct attention to article 10 which provides that the agreement shall enter into force on the day on which the instruments of ratification are accepted. 
Some minor amendment to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act will be required before Australia under our constitutional procedure will be in a position to ratify the agreement. It is intended that this amending legislation should be brought down early in the Autumn session next year. 
Before concluding my remarks,  Mr Speaker,  I pay a warm tribute to the Commonwealth Solicitor-General,  Mr Ellicott,  Q.C., who led the Australian delegation in its negotiations. Their successful conclusion owes a great deal to the skill, energy and courtesy which he brought to the task. I also express warm appreciation of the constructive and gracious manner in which the Indonesian delegates conducted their side of the negotiations. The Solicitor-General in his opening remarks at the start of the negotiations said: 'Good fences make good neighbours'; a saying which I picked up and repeated in answering a question in the House this morning. The SolicitorGeneral indicated Australia's wish to come to a settlement which was fair and equitable and which represented a boundary permanently satisfactory to both countries. I believe that this has been achieved and 1 commend the agreement to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
In the House of Representatives on 16th August (Hansard, pages 213 and 214), I clearly expressed the opposition of the  Australian  Government in regard to nuclear weapons testing by China. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator has informed us that, since the appeal for victims of the floods in Greater Manila and Central Luzon was issued on 22nd July, the following pledges have been announced by governments and organisations other than Australia as of 29th August 1972: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
The Convention is not yet in force. 
No. The question of Australia becoming a party to the Convention is under consideration by the Departments concerned. 
The Convention is not yet in force because the requirements of Article 40 have not yet been met. That article reads in part as follows: 
1. This Convention shall enter into force on the ninetieth day  following the date  on which the following requirements are fulfilled: 
at least 8 States have deposited instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with the Secretary-General of the Organisation, and 
the Secretary-General of the Organisation has received information in accordance with Article 39 that those persons in such States who would be liable to contribute pursuant to Article 10 have received during the preceding calendar year a total quantity of at least 7S0 million tons of contributing oil. 
This Convention shall, however, not enter into force before the Liability Convention has entered into force.' 
Australian National Line: Freight Increases on Overseas Routes  (Question No. 6076)  Mr Whitiam  asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
On what dates and to what rates have freights been increased since his answer on 30th September 1971 (Hansard, page 1824) on the overseas routes served by the Australian National Line. 
This statement is reasonably simple and reasonably clear. I am not going to take up the time of the House- 
The facts relating to the purchase from Jetair of aircraft for foreign air purposes are reasonably clear and reasonably simple. They show no wrongdoing by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs or any other Minister or by any official. At the most there was an irregularity in the way in which after approval was given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the matter was implemented between the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Supply. All this is clear; all this is simple. It was set out In considerable detail by my colleague in the Senate, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  on 27th September 1972 in a statement that he then made. I seek leave to incorporate his statement in Hansard. 
Following these repeated statements that the book value was $100,000 as against the purchase price paid by the Commonwealth of $275,000, my colleague the Minister for Supply, who has been handling this matter in the other place, made inquiries from the Department of Foreign Affairs as to what in fact the book value was. He received a letter dated 16th October 1972 addressed to him from Alexander Barton. He supplied a photostat copy to me. I think the simplest th'.ng to do would be to table that letter and seek leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 
During the interval my attention was drawn to the fact that I described my colleague in the other place as the Minister for Supply whereas of course he is the Minister for Works. I thank the honourable member for Sydney for the correction. It is the Minister for Works who was handling it. The letter is addressed to The  Hon.  R. C. Wright'. It is dated 16th October. It sets out the details of the various aircraft, the cost price and what was done before they were taken into the books, and then as against each aircraft the book value so arrived at. The total - which is the matter that honourable members would be concerned with - is $579,325 as against the purchase price of $275,000 paid by the Commonwealth. I just want to say this: The honourable member for Newcastle has engaged, as a member of the Opposition, in this mudslinging operation. He has tried to imply in relation to this purchase that there was a book value of only $100,000. He has repeated it again and again.  His  information has been quite wrong and he has wasted the time of this House and the media. I suggest that next time he should get bis information correct. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by implication in what the honourable member for Newcastle has said. He prefaced his remarks by saying that he had not even read the documents I tabled. Yet he is suggesting that 1 am misrepresenting him. I suggest that he should read the information I tabled and then check that the aircraft to which he referred as being valued at about $99,000 and the aircraft to which the company is referring are different aircraft altogether. If he wishes to concentrate on the Jetair aircraft that the Commonwealth Government purchased he had better check his information. 
For the interest of honourable members I table 3 documents relating to the Jetair matter. They are as follows: 
A letter dated 17th October 1972 from  Senator K.  C. Wright to  Mr Alexander  Barton; 
A reply from  Mr Alexander  Barton to  Senator R.  C. Wright received on 18th October 1972; and 
A message setting forth a letter from Hungerford Spooner and Kirkhope, accountants and auditors, addressed to the Secretary, Department of Foreign Affairs, Commonwealth Centre, Phillip Street, Sydney, dated 18th October 1972. 
-I think that in the last part of his question the honourable member for Lalor suggested that there is close co-operation with the French in the production of nuclear weapons. 
That is a most extraordinary statement. The question of the development of our uranium resources comes within the responsibility of the Minister for National Development. As I understand the matter, wide ranging studies and discussions are continuing with the United States of America, Canada, Japan and the French as well. The honourable member for Lalor just selects the French because he thinks that he can make some sort of mileage out of this in relation to the nuclear test protests which we have made. Of course, the fact is that Australia has to get, or at least look at, the best technology in relation to the long term development of its resources, and it would not be honouring its trust to the Australian people if it tied its hands in regard to at least exploring what was proper and best for the Australian people in developing these resources. It goes no further than that at the present time. There is certainly no joint co-operation in the development of nuclear weapons - the suggestion is ridiculous - but there is a very wide ranging feasibility study in relation to the development of resources, involving a number of countries. As far as I know no result has come from this as yet, but no doubt at the appropriate time whatever result emerges will be made known to this Parliament. 
 This is a Government Bill. The basic idea underlying its introduction was the desirability of determining, in respect of the territorial sea and the continental shelf, the question of where sovereignty lies - what is the jurisdiction of the States and what is the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth? The general objective of seeking to have this question resolved is one with which very few members of this House would quarrel. I for one appreciate and understand the desire that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  have so clearly and eloquently expressed in their speeches today to achieve that objective. 1 agree that questions of national importance are involved. But since this Bill was introduced it has, I believe, become increasingly evident that the method of using it to achieve that objective is by no means the best one. lt has, indeed, become increasingly evident that if this Bill were to be used as the method it would require very significant amendment. 
Before discussing the course which the Government now believes should be followed, I wish to mention 2 points. Firstly, it has been suggested that the lack of resolution of the question between the Commonwealth and the States in some way restricts the Commonwealth's legal power to negotiate international agreements. That is simply not so. The Commonwealth has power under the external affairs provisions of the Constitution. So it has power to negotiate treaties, to enter into conventions and to make agreements regarding matters - any matters - relating to the law of the sea. The recent agreement Australia entered into with Indonesia settling the boundary of the sea bed between our 2 countries is an example of this. Likewise, the Commonwealth can freely negotiate in respect of the new law of the sea convention. Make no mistake about that. It has complete legal power, it can freely negotiate. The significance of the States in this situation is a significance which occurs in every federal system which has to enter into international negotiations, whether it be for a convention against racial discrimination, an International Labour Organisation convention or any other convention. But when it comes to implementing it in such a country it may be that some of the implementation has to be effected through its States section in its division of sovereignty. But there is no legal restriction on negotiation. 
The second point relates to the suggestion that this Bill offers a speedy means of resolving the issues which exist between the Commonwealth and the States on this subject. It is by no means clear that this is so. The experience of 2 other countries with federal systems, both of which have been referred to in this debate - the United States of America and Canada - which have tried to resolve this matter by litigation is by no means encouraging. In the United States of America since 1947  -  that is, over a period of a quarter of a century - the matter has been litigated continuously in a series of cases, and 3 of these cases are still current. In Canada a dispute between the provincial governments over off-shore rights is still not resolved notwithstanding the advisory opinion given by the Supreme Court of Canada in 1967 in relation to British Columbia. 
It is fair to say that this Bill would be likely to involve a good deal of litigation to resolve the questions which it raises. I would like to refer to clause 9 and clause 1 1 of the Bill. Clause 9 declares that the Commonwealth has sovereignty in respect of the internal waters of Australia. Internal waters are the harbours, the rivers and the lakes, which are normally regarded as part of the sovereign territory of the States. This clause declares that the internal waters of Australia belong to the Commonwealth of Australia. Clause 11 provides an exception to that general proposition. It reads: 
The application of this Act does not extend to or in respect of any waters of the sea that are waters of or within any bay, gulf, estuary, river, creek, inlet, port or harbour and - 
were, on the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and one, within the limits of a State; and 
remain within the limits of a State, or to or in respect of the airspace above, or to or in respect of the bed or sub soil of any such waters. 
This means that the Commonwealth is asserting a claim to substantial areas of water which are at present administered by the States, not as high seas, not as territorial waters, but as inland waters. The test in clause 11 is the position as at 1901. 
At the time of federation, as my learned friend from Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has said, there were various ways of determining where, in the case of a bay, one drew the base line. Perhaps the most common place to draw it, because there was a 3 mile territorial sea, was 6 miles between the jaws of the bay. They were the internal waters, and outside that line were territorial waters. In 1928-29 a codification conference was held at The Hague at which Australia indicated that it was prepared to jo along with a 10 mile closing line for bays. This proposal was put forward substantially by Great Britain. Subsequently we adopted a 10 mile closing line for bays, so the internal waters moved outwards. Since then the States have administered internal waters - not territorial waters; I have not come to territorial waters yet - out to the base line of the 10 mile limit. 
After the 1958 International Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone was entered into we became entitled to take a closing line of 24 miles between the jaws of a bay. For some time we continued with our 10 mile closure and did not trouble about the 24 miles, but on 31st October 1967 I, as Attorney-General, announced in this House that we had decided to apply the principle of the 24- mile closing line wherever that was relevant around the coast of Australia and the Territories. At that point the States treated as internal waters the waters right out to the 24-mile closing line. Then the mapping section of the Department of National Development prepared maps which we supplied to the States in connection with off-shore oil matters, showing 24-mile closing base lines across the bays. These are the ones currently used. At first the States acted on the basis of a 6-mile closing line, then a 10-mile closing line and now for some years a 24-mile closing line. Not only has the Commonwealth not objected to their doing this but it might be seen as having encouraged it a little. Yet this Bill seeks to put them back to the position in 1901. It is hardly surprising that they have indicated a little resistance to this process. 
Another element is involved here. The Bill refers to the position in 1901 and that would have to be established all around Australia in a series of cases, physically on the ground, on evidence as to what the position was. One would have to  prove  where there had been erosion or accretion since then. There is a field here for litigation which would involve the lawyers for a considerable number of years, lt may be that we should delete clauses 9 and 11. But I could go on to indicate how some litigation could arise. One faces up to this if one has to. but all I am saying is that it would be misleading for anyone to conclude that the passage of this Bill will simply lead to a speedy solution to this problem. This sort of procedure has not pro',ed to be quick in the United States where there has been a series of cases over a quarter of a century, with 3 still current. It has not proved to resolve the problem in Canada where cases are still current. It is obvious that it would not necessarily be a speedy means of solution. 
I believe that the course the Government should follow is to make an effort to resolve these difficulties by a process of cooperation with the States. This was stated when the matter was last before the House, in May this year. Following that debate several consultations with the States took place between officials and Ministers. It was discussed at the Australian Minerals Council and at the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. Finally each State appointed ministerial representatives to confer with the ministerial representatives appointed by the Government. They mct in Canberra on 10th August this year. This matter was discussed and a communique issued after the meeting. I would like to refer to some passages of it. The first extract reads as follows: 
The meeting then examined questions concerning the territorial sea and the continental shelf under Australia's federal system. 
The meeting identified problems for the Commonwealth and (he States in regard to these matters and explored possible courses of future action. 
The Commonwealth emphasised the desirability of removing legal uncertainties as to where sovereignty lay. 
As was indicated in another part of the communique, we discussed the question of a test case. The extract continues: 
While this was recognised by the States, they all took the view that a possible seres of legal cases was not a satisfactory method. One proposal put forward was that the preferable method in the long term would be to determine the question by constitutional amendment. It was suggested it might be one of the matters to be brought before the Constitutional Review Convention. 
The States unanimously affirmed their opposition to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and their preference for finding a  solution  through co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The Commonwealth does not have to accept that proposition but it is clear that the 6 States - after ali they are partners in this federal system of ours - took that practical view as to the way in which this matter should be approached. The States were unanimously opposed to introducing this Bill as the method and they claimed that it would inevitably lead to what they described as a 'litigation serial'. They may or may not have been right in that view, but that is what they were putting. The result, therefore, in their view would not be a speedy determination of the issues involved. 
In the result the States strongly advocated and favoured a joint examination of other methods of dealing with this question. This was stated in the communique at a later point. It said: 
The Stales put forward the view that an examination should be made of the feasibility of - 
A solution of the problem of off-shore minerals by means of complementary State and Commonwealth Legislation; 
If I may pause there, that is an isolated small section of the problem which is currently urgent because licences are being granted. Therefore, they are suggesting that we should study complementary legislation as a means of dealing with that matter. The communique continues: 
A resolution of legal questions surrounding control of the territorial sea and the continental shelf by means of Commonwealth-State co-operation; 
That does not restrict the means which may be explored. It is not out of the bounds of possibility that one could, even on that, explore further the question of a test case when one has been through other possible ways of arriving at some accommodation on this matter which would clarify it. The communique continues: 
Defining the interna] waters of the States and the base lines from which the territorial sea is measured by means of consultation between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Another point in relation to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources was referred to in the following way: 
In relation to petroleum the meeting noted points raised in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources including the question of Ministerial responsibility and agreed that further examination was needed in order to determine whether alterations should be made to the Petroleum Scheme. 
After this meeting of the ministerial representatives of the 6 State governments and the Commonwealth Government the following was agreed: 
Ministers will report to Governments on today's discussions and will recommend that urgent studies be made by the Commonwealth and State officials with a view to considering the matters raised by the States and to framing specific recommendations to be submitted to Governments for decision. 
I believe that in our federal system this was a responsible and proper approach to what is undoubtedly a complex and difficult question. Subsequently I and my colleagues reported to our ministerial colleagues in the Commonwealth Government. We were not bound to do so but we reported the result of the meeting. My ministerial colleagues were of the opinion that the proposals made at the meeting should be followed up. On 5th September the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  wrote to each State Premier informing him that the Commonwealth was agreeable to the suggested discussions and studies taking place. Since 5th September all State Premiers have replied favourably to the Prime Minister's letter. So, with the agreement of all existing State governments and the Commonwealth Government, it has been decided that it is responsible and proper now to put to study these matters of internal waters, the means of resolving this question and co-operative legislation in relation to minerals other than off-shore petroleum. In the face of that, I suggest that this Government properly takes the view that it should not at this time seek to force through this Parliament and pass the Bill before the House thus bringing about a legal confrontation. That, of course, is basic to the question. 
My whole speech is based upon that fact, as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  well knows. Therefore, it is considered that this discussion with the States, as agreed by all governments, should proceed. The Government wishes not to remove the Bill, but it considers that further consideration should be deferred while these discussions proceed. 1 suggest that that is the responsible course to adopt. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. The provisions referred to by the honourable member were included in the Conventions for the benefit of developing countries. 
Consideration is being given to the question whether Australia should accede to the revised Conventions. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 have not seen the form referred to. 
This part of the question seeks  a  legal opinion, which it would be inappropriate for me to furnish. 
The Government's proposals to strengthen the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971 were indicated in a statement which I made to Parliament on 24th May 1972 (Hansard, Senate page 1956). The detailed provisions to implement these proposals will appear from the Bill the Government expects to introduce in the present sittings of Parliament. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following, answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given on 7th September 1971 by the Prime Minister to a similar question - see Hansard (House of Representatives), page 898. Since that date, no payments have been made by the Commonwealth to  Mr or Mrs Petrov. 
There are none. 
No. 
and (5)  Mr and Mrs Petrov  were naturalised in Melbourne on 12th October 19S6. 
 The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am nol in a position to give accurate information of the kind sought by the question. Applicants for appointment as Justices of the Peace in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are not required to state whether they are Aboriginals. As a result, the records relating to appointments contain no relevant information. However, 1 am aware that 2 Aboriginals hold appointments as Justices of the Peace in the Australian Capital Territory. In relation to the Northern Territory, 1 am not aware of any Aboriginals holding appointments. 
This censure motion is an exceptionally miserable one. For a long time now the Opposition in this House and in the Senate has been asking questions about the purchase of DC3 aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd for foreign aid purposes, in an attempt to suggest first of all that there was some impropriety in the transaction. The Government has responded accurately and directly in answers to questions, so far as I can see from going through those questions and answers. Where the Government has been asked for papers, papers have been made available. They have been tabled - very freely tabled - with the exception of certain papers which were not proper to be tabled because of classification or for some other reason. Where that was the position the Government has indicated the category of those papers and has offered (hem for inspection by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Opposition in this House  (Mr Whitlam).  So I suggest that the Government has acted reasonably and responsibly in answer to these various probes which have attempted to show impropriety. 
It is now clear beyond any question that there was no wrongdoing and no impropriety on the part of any Minister or any officer of a Commonwealth department. The most that can be suggested is that at one point there was some irregularity between an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Supply. He should have left it to the Department of Supply to write the letter in relation to the purchase. But it is also clear that any such irregularity was cured, that proper procedures were eventually followed, that the whole matter is now in order and that there is neither irregularity nor illegality in it. The Opposition has switched its ground. It has said: 'If there is no impropriety, let us have another go at the Government on some other basis.' It said: 'The Government paid too much for them; so let us have a go at the price.' The suggestion was offered that the Commonwealth Government paid too much and it was repeated this morning by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  The papers actually show that on price the deal was a satisfactory one from the Government's point of view. Every department that had anything to do with it, including the Department of Supply, agrees that it was a proper price. I repeat that every department agrees it was a proper price; so there is nothing in that suggestion. 
But there is one curious offshoot which has been pursued by the honourable member for Newcastle who until recently has been suggesting that really the aircraft were worth only $100,000, that we paid $275,000 for them, therefore we grossly overpaid for them and gave someone an enormous and undue profit. He has persisted in that suggestion, at least until yesterday. He referred, in support of this allegation to there being aircraft on the books of the company to the value of $100,000. We all know that book value is almost irrelevant and that what you look at is the real value. It is obvious that the real value was there and we paid that. But let us take this on the basis of book value. The honourable member was referring to the wrong aircraft in the books. They were different aircraft. They were a Piper Aztec and some other aircraft. So on a false basis he has made a violent attack on the Government and on the companies con cerned. He does not spare himself in heaping all kinds of insinuations on those companies. The fact is that the aircraft he mentioned were not the aircraft referred to in the books. On 17th October I tabled  a  letter which showed the book value of the aircraft which the Commonwealth purchased. It was not $100,000; it was $579,325. So if we follow the kind of reasoning which the honourable member follows and compare the book value with what was paid it looks as though we got  a  tremendous bargain. 
Immediately I tabled that letter and before the honourable member read it he rose to make a personal explanation and said that he perisisted in his allegation. I said to him, rather gently I think, that he had better check whether - this is the effect of my comment - the figures he was referring to related to the aircraft which we had purchased. He did not bother to check that. He went straight on television and repeated his allegation, which is utterly false and which the information in front of him would have enabled him to convince himself was false. He did not bother to check. He recklessly and without taking the slightest trouble to check it, although I had asked him to check it, went on Channel 9 or 'This Day Tonight', and made the same assertions, piled insinuation on insinuation and persisted in this. We have tabled further documents including a letter from the auditors, who are most reputable people, showing entirely what is the clear fact, that is, that the aircraft we purchased for $275,000 stood in the books at a value of $579,325. 
He is going to change his ground again. He will change his ground every 5 minutes. I suggest that the honourable member should apologise. But it is worse than that. The honourable member for Newcastle is the shadow Minister for Shipping and Transport. What is facing the Australian people is the risk that a man so reckless that he would not bother to check before going on to the media to make these very serious allegations could become  a  Minister in certain possibilities. I hope that the people will take a hard look at the shadow Ministry on the other side of this 
House. If they do and if they pay less attention to the public relations gimmicks they are being showered with, if they have a hard look at the honourable member for Newcastle and the other shadow Ministers on the Opposition side to see whether they want their affairs administered in this fashion, then I suggest that this will influence what they do on 2nd December. 
Switching ground again in the course of the history of this affair the Opposition sought to follow a different tack altogether. For a while the Opposition left the purchase of aircraft for foreign aid purposes and began to suggest, particularly through the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating):  'Oh well, there has been some wrongdoing by the Department of Civil Aviation in that it has been attempting to undermine the 2-airline policy'. This suggestion again was accompanied by a violent attack on the integrity and bona fides of the concerns in question. I think this consistent pattern of using the protection of this House to make these wild insinuations and attacks on these people is done with a purpose - in the hope that some gullible people will accept the allegations, the insinuations, as facts and will transfer to the Government some of their resulting feelings of disapproval. That is the operation that is being engaged in in these insinuations by the honourable member for Newcastle and the honourable member for Blaxland. All this is pretty low level conduct on the part of the Opposition. 
Now the Opposition casts aside all charges of impropriety in the transaction and comes forward with the suggestion that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been guilty of concealment and incompetence in dealing with the matter. Well, they are pretty general charges. But when you look at the first one, the question of concealment, as I have already said each question that has been put has been directly and so far as I can see accurately answered. Papers have been made available again and again. They have been tabled. Those which are classified or otherwise properly not to be made available generally have been made available for inspection by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition in this House. It is impossible to say with any justice that there has been concealment in this case. It was suggested - perhaps this is hardly covered by the term 'concealment' - that the Prime Minister had been inaccurate in some of his answers and that this amounted to misleading the House. I have been through the answers. I cannot find this. 
The one which the Leader of the Opposition mainly relies on is some suggestion that when the Prime Minister said that the negotiations for the purchase of aircraft for Nepal, Laos and Cambodia started about a year before, he was inaccurate because negotiations for Cambodia did not start a year before. I would have thought that if the Prime Minister had answered that the purchase negotiations for Nepal, Laos and Cambodia started in December 1970 that would have been inaccurate. The only accurate answer in those circumstances is the one that has been given. If honourable members look at the answer I gave they will see that it covers this aspect of the matter. I also was asked the same question and I gave the answer that they started for Nepal in 1969, for Laos in April 1970 and for Cambodia in 1970. There has never been any concealment. Everyone knows what the truth is. It is only a person who is mischievously misinterpreting the answers who could claim that they were misleading. 
I turn to the charge of incompetence. This matter came before the Minister for Foreign Affairs, now the Prime Minister, at 2 points. He, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs had the task of allocating funds for foreign aid. It was put to him in a memorandum of 31st December asking for an allocation of funds for the the purchase of these aircraft. His task was to approve the allocation of funds for that purchase. He did it at that point and on all the evidence tabled did it competently. When subsequently an irregularity occurred he dealt also with that competently to get advice on it and to cure the position. So there is nothing in the allegation. 
There is a serious side to this whole exercise. It is obvious that the Opposition has deliberately set out to engage the time and attention of this House on trivia. It is not the first time the Opposition has engaged in this tactic. It is becoming a common practice under the leadership of the present Leader of the Opposition. 
There are great national issues with which this House should be concerning itself and the Government has at all times shown a willingness to bring forward and grapple with issues of importance. But the Opposition constantly seeks to divert attention from national issues on so many of which its policies are inadequate and vulnerable. It does not want its policies subjected too much to the cold light of day, so it turns on this nonsense exercise - the Jetair operation. It think it ought to be called the hot air operation. 
There is another reason for these tactics. In each of these low level initiatives there is an attempt to defame or denigrate the Prime Minister. This is a common denominator. The policies of the Opposition on great issues are so vulnerable, and its old shadow ministers, who have so many times been rejected by the electorate are so inadequate to their tasks, that it seems to believe its only hope of persuading the electorate to support it on this occasion is to launch malicious personal attacks on the Prime Minister and then to launch an expensive electoral campaign of pubic relations gimmicks such as we have never seen before in this country. Sure, the Labor Party has a slogan, it has T shirts and it has showbiz singing jingles. It has the works. Well, I do not believe that the people of Australia will be taken in by all of this nonsense. 1 believe that the Opposition is greatly underrating the judgment of the people of Australia. The people are interested in policies and issues, and they will not be taken in by these gimmicks, nor are they going to be misled by any smear campaign against the Prime Minister. I believe that they will demonstrate on 2nd December their disapproval and even their contempt for these tactics. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963 made hijacking of foreign or Australian aircraft an offence against Commonwealth law punishable by severe penalties. There has been no instance of hijacking in Australia since the passage of that legislation. That fact has not, however, restricted the development of internal security procedures for the protection of aircraft from the crime of hijacking. In addition Australia has participated fully in the development of international law on the subject. The Tokyo Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft was ratified by Australia following the passage of the Civil Aviation (Offenders on International Aircraft) Act 1970. Australia has also signed the Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft and the Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against Civil Aviation. Legislation to implement the Hague Convention is now before the Parliament and legislation to implement the Montreal Convention will be introduced as soon as possible. 
and (3) All occurrences of aircraft hijacking and associated acts of violence wherever occurring are studied closely by international organisations, as well as by the responsible authorities in Australia and other countries, with a view to the development of more effective methods in preventing and dealing with such events should they occur. Appropriate security measures have been put into force at airports in Australia, lt would not be in the public interest to disclose what those measures are. 
This proposal at the United Nations arises from the recent Stockholm conference and the report from that conference. The Australian mission at the United Nations has been instructed to indicate Australia's readiness to co-operate in carrying out the earth watch in respect of atmospheric pollution. As has been reported,  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, who is the leader of our mission there, has suggested that Australia be one of probably 10 sites for an atmospheric watch station. These would be stations around the world and we are offering to have one of them in Australia. 
It is a fact that the Indian Government passed the General Insurance Business Nationalisation Act 1972 and gazetted it, I think, in May of this year. In doing so it was following out an objective which it had in common with the Australian Labor Party. The Act provided for compensation but the insurance companies regarded the compensation as quite inadequate. Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd was one Australian company concerned. Following the gazettal of the Act the Australian Government made strong representations to the Indian Government. So did other governments, and the governments of Great Britain, New Zealand and Sweden come to mind. They have made strong representations to the Indian Government in regard to the amounts of compensation. The representations were unsuccessful and a further Act relating to compensation was passed by the Indian Government in August last. 
The matter reached that stage of finality but there still remained the question of whether, even in respect of the compensation that was allowed, the companies would be able to bring it out of the country, whether they would be able to convert the assets and repatriate the proceeds. Restrictions are imposed on such action and we are currently making representations to endeavour to ensure that the companies concerned will be able at least to realise what is available to them in India and to bring the proceeds back to Australia. That is where the matter rests at present. With regard to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, it is not our practice to make the giving or withholding of aid a kind of pressure point to influence the domestic policies of governments. I will certainly follow this matter very closely but I am not prepared now to tell the honourable member that I will be willing to use Australia's aid programme to bring pressure on a country which we are endeavouring to assist with that programme. 
by leave - During the past two days both the Ellice Islands and Fiji have been hit by Hurricane Bebe which has brought in its train considerable devastation. The full extent of the damage is still not known. The Government has been in touch with the Australian High Commission in Suva. We have also been in touch with the British High Commission in Canberra over the situation in the Ellice Islands. We understand that all Australian staff in Suva are safe and well. There are no reports of Australian casualties but 10 Fiji citizens are reported to have been killed. In the Ellice Group serious damage has occurred at Funafuti. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has sent a telegram to the Prime Minister of Fiji expressing our sympathy and dismay and indicating our readiness to assist in whatever way we can in alleviating the effects of this disaster. As an immediate step the Government has allocated a grant of $25,000 to Fiji. The Government is also offering a grant of $5,000 to assist the Ellice Islanders. 
-I should like to express the concern of the Government at the damage which has occurred as a result of the hurricane and to express its sympathy to those who have been injured and suffered damage to property and to the relatives of those who have lost their lives. At the present time there is no request from the Fijian Government for particular assistance from us. It is too early at this stage to say what help might be asked of us. However, we are watching the position closely. Certainly this is one of the areas with which we have a special relationship and we will consider very sympathetically any needs that arise out of such a disaster. 
-I did not see the programme, nor was my attention called to it. Therefore I have no knowledge of the detail of what  Mr Couchman  said. However, now that the honourable member has raised the matter I shall have some inquir ies made. If there is any further information that I can give him I will do so by letter. 
In pursuance of section 13 of the Law Reform Commission Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory, I present 3 reports of the Law Reform Commission of the Australian Capital Territory - the first on imperial Acts in force in the Territory, the second on New South Wales Acts in force in the Territory and the third on the civil procedure in the Court of Petty Sessions of the Territory. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed - 
Apoligies or compensation made for attacks on foreign diplomatic and consular property or representatives were as follows: 
Cambodia - 30th December 1971, plate glass window of Consulate in Sydney broken. Apology made. 
Czechoslovakia - 21st August 1972, ConsulateGeneral in Sydney damaged by incendiary device and wall daubed. Apology made and repairs effected. 
France - 1st June 1972, residence of Military Attache and car daubed with paint and windows broken. Apology made and paint removed from residence at Commonwealth expense; 19th June 1972, plate glass window of Consulate in Melbourne broken and attempt made to set fire to office. Apology made. Slogans painted on Embassy walls. Apology made and slogans removed by Department of Works. 
Greece- 28th October 1971, 21st April 1972, Consulate in Adelaide defaced by painting on walls on 2 occasions. Apologies made. 
Indonesia - Areas of Consulate in Sydney defaced. Apology made and areas restored by Department of Works. 
Italy - 6th February 1972, minor damage caused to Consulate in Melbourne by incendiary device. Apology made. 
Lebanon - 15th November 1971, plate glass window of Consulate in Sydney broken. Apology made. 
Malta.- 4th August 1972, Chancery of High Commission broken into and stamps and stationery -stolen. Apology made. 
South Africa - 17th January 1972, slogans painted on walls of Embassy and 3rd Secretary's Residence. Apology made and walls repainted by Department of Works. Two plaques stolen from Embassy. Apology made and plaques replaced. 
Switzerland- 24th May 1972, metal shield stolen from Consulate in Sydney. Apology made. 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics - Repairs to Embassy and grounds carried out by Departments of Works and Interior as a consequence of bomb explosion on 17th January 1972; apology made and compensation paid. 
United Kingdom- 17th March 1971, vandalism to High Commission. Apology made and repairs effected by Department of Works. 
United States of America- 10th April 1972, paint daubed at Consulate in Sydney. Apology made. 
Yugoslavia - Four instances of minor damage to premises and property of the Consul in Perth. 
Attacks on Australian Properties or Representatives 
France - In February 1971 the car of the Australian Ambassador was dented and daubed with paint in Paris. There is no conclusive evidence that this attack was directed exclusively against Australian property. 
en - The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Several applications have been made. The first application was made in July, 1970 and refused on 4th August 1970. Further applications made on 22nd September 1970 and 28th June 1971 were also refused. An application made on 7th July 1972 is still under consideration. 
1 am unable to say.  35-Hour Week (Question No. 6285) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This was not a topic discussed with other Foreign Ministers in New York. However, to some degree I have been concerned with the question of agreements between Australia and other countries. Under this highly beneficial legislation the Minister for Social Services has been negotiating the terms of agreement because there is an element of reciprocal rights. In a number of countries - the Minister for Social Services would have to supply the list of countries involved - agreements in draft form have been arrived at. These are in process of being dealt with by the legal officials, as I understand the matter. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the Commonwealth Police Act 1957-1966, I present the annual report of the Commissioner of Police on the opera tion of the Commonwealth Police Force and summary of its activities for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
Pursuant to section 314 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966- 1970, I present the fifth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1972. I am unable to provide honourable members with printed copies of the report as these have not yet been received from the Printer. However, I shall make copies available as soon as possible. In the meantime, for the convenience of honourable members, I have furnished a copy of the report to the Principal Librarian, Legislative Reference Service, in the Parliamentary Library. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read a second time. This Bill and the 2 associated extradition Bills, in relation to which I will be moving a motion shortly, together constitute the third significant legislative step taken by the Commonwealth in furtherance of its endeavours to combat an essentially modern problem, namely, the disruption of aviation by hijacking - or air piracy as it is sometimes called - and the acts of violence that accompany the commission of that offence. Honourable members will recall that the first step was taken in 1963 with the passage of the Crimes (Aircraft) Act. That Act created the Commonwealth offence of hi jacking in respect of aircraft engaged in interstate flights, aircraft, including defence aircraft, owned by the Commonwealth and foreign aircraft that were engaged in a flight ending in or commencing in Australia. The Act also dealt with crimes committed on board aircraft engaged in interstate flights, in flights to and from overseas and, in respect of Australian registered aircraft and Commonwealth owned aircraft, crimes committed on such aircraft even if they were engaged in flights outside Australia. The law to be applied in respect of such crimes was the criminal law of. the Australian Capital Territory. In effect, the Act made aircraft to which it applied Austraiian territory for the purpose of the application of criminal law, the particular law to be applied being, as I have said, that of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The second major step was taken in 1970 when this Parliament enacted the Civil Aviation (Offenders on International Aircraft) Act. That Act gave effect to the Tokyo Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts committed on board aircraft. The Convention established that, as for ships, the law primarily applicable to aircraft was the law of the State in which the aircraft was registered - a flag law. The Convention conferred upon an aircraft commander power to impose restraint in cases where the action was necessary for the protection of the aircraft or persons or property on board. It provided for the delivery of the persons who had been restrained by the commander of the aircraft to the responsible authorities at the place where the aircraft landed. The Convention imposed upon its contracting parties obligations to exercise jurisdiction over offences committed on board aircraft, the primary responsibility being placed on the State of registration of the aircraft. Machinery was provided by the legislation for the holding in custody and extradition of offenders. There was power also to return an offender to his home State or to the Territory in which he had begun his journey. 
Neither the Convention nor the Act created any new offence. Rather the intention was to ensure the expeditious dealing with offenders under law. Like all conventions on this subject the Tokyo Convent, &gt;n applied only to international civil aviation. Military, customs or police aircraft were excluded from its operation. The third step is the acceptance of The Hague Convention. This Convention was made at The Hague in December 1970 and is entitled 'Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft'. The English text of the Convention is set out in the schedule to the Bill. From it honourable members can see that the Convention takes the unusual course of creating in Article 1 by, so to speak, international legislation the offence of hijacking. The offence is committed when a person who, being on board an aircraft in flight unlawfully by force, threat or any other form of intimidation, seizes or exercises control of the aircraft or attempts to perform any such act. An accomplice on board such aircraft also commits the offence. Hijacking is generally accepted as a word descriptive of the offence. By Article 2 each contracting State is obliged to make the offence punishable by severe penalties. 
As befits its standing as one of the world's principal aviation nations Australia took part in the formation of The Hague Convention. It was signed on behalf of Australia in June of this year. The Convention came into force on 14th October 1971 following ratification by the tenth signatory state, the United States of America. The main purposes of this Bill are to approve accession by Australia to the Convention, to create the offence of hijacking in cases to which the Convention is applicable and to provide the necessary procedures with respect to the taking of offenders into custody and their detention in custody pending a decision whether to try them or extradite them. There is also provision for the holding of a preliminary inquiry into the facts of a hijacking, as provided for by the Convention, the findings of which are, under the Convention, to be reported to other interested countries. 
The opportunity has also been taken, however, to extend the ambit of Commonwealth law in respect of aircraft crimes to some categories of offences with which the Convention does not deal. Honourable members will note that the offence of hijacking is committed in a number of circumstances which are set out in clause 8 of the Bill. The first circumstance is the offence to which the Convention directly applies and which Australia, pursuant to the Convention, is required to make punish able. The remaining circumstances are not wholly covered by the Convention but, in the view of the Government, are cases to which this legislation should apply. These other circumstances are: (a) the hijacking of an aircraft on a flight in the course of trade and commerce with other countries or among the States or on a flight within a territory, between two territories or between a State and a territory; (b) the hijacking of a Commonwealth aircraft, including a defence aircraft; (c) the hijacking of an aircraft of the government of a foreign country in Australia or on a flight commencing or ending in Australia; and (d) the hijacking of an aircraft outside Australia by an Australian citizen. 
Cases falling within paragraph (a) above would mostly come within the Convention with the important exception of a flight between places in Australia, such as interstate, by an aircraft registered in Australia. Cases falling within paragraph (d) would also be mostly covered by the Convention but the Convention would not cover the hijacking by an Australian citizen of a foreign aircraft in flight between 2 places both within the country of registration of the aircraft. The other provisions ensure that in conjunction with the Crimes (Aircraft) Act of 1963 the offence of hijacking is comprehensively covered. The Bill provides that the maximum punishment for hijacking is imprisonment for life. The Convention also requires its contracting States to establish their jurisdiction over any other act of violence' against passengers or crew committed by the alleged hijacker in connection with hijacking. 
Clause 9 of the Bill therefore provides for the creation of offences arising from acts of violence committed on board an aircraft against the passengers or crew. The circumstances in which those offences are punishable are substantially the same as those in which hijacking is made punishable by clause 8. The clause therefore is not confined only to those acts of violence occurring in connection with a hijacking. It covers all acts of violence committed on an aircraft for which there may be no Australian law currently applicable. As in the case of the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963 the law that is made applicable to such offences is that of the Australian Capital Territory which has been selected as it is an area of general criminal law over which this Parliament has control. 
Clause 10 of the Bill embodies the obligation imposed by the Convention upon Australia to take the proper measures to restore control to the commander of an aircraft on which a hijacking has been committed or attempted. The remaining clauses of the Bill provide appropriate machinery for dealing with occurrences of hijacking and persons who have committed offences against the Act. Honourable members will observe that there is substantial similarity between those provisions and the corresponding provisions of the 1970 Act. Provision is made to ensure that any hijacked aircraft is restored to the control of its lawful commander and for the taking of alleged offenders into custody or for their arrest. Where it is necessary for the facts of an alleged offence to bs inquired into a magistrate is authorised to hold an inquiry and the Bill details the requirements to be observed and procedures to be followed in the holding of an inquiry. 
Finally 1 refer to the 2 associated Extradition Bills. The primary purpose of the Hague Convention is to ensure that hijackers are punished, lt provides therefore that the State in which a hijacker is found shall either extradite the offender or itself consider the prosecution of that offender. The offence of hijacking does not fall precisely within the category of extraditable crimes in our present extradition legislation. The 2 Extradition Bills which I will be moving shortly are designed to remedy that position. With the passage of these 3 Bills Australia will be able to fulfil its obligations under The Hague Convention and play its full part in the attempted resolution of a world wide problem. There is a fourth international convention relating to the safety of civil aviation, namely, the Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation. This Convention was made in Montreal last year and was signed by Australia on the 12th of this month. Legislation to enable the Convention to be ratified will be introduced as soon as possible. I commend the Bills to the House. 
This Bill, the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill 1972 and the Extra dition (Foreign States) Bill 1972 are cognate measures. May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure. Before debate ensues on the Crimes (Hijacking of Aircraft) Bill it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 Bills. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you might permit this course to be followed. 
in reply - Referring to the remarks of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  I think there is a very broad band of agreement between us on the desirability of this Bill and of what is being done. However, the honourable member for Newcastle did make some criticisms relating to the time that he said has been taken by the Government in ratifying some of the conventions. 1 thought I should make some comment about that. He referred to the Tokyo Convention of 1963 and to the fact that the Government had ratified that Convention on 22nd June 1970. I think that it is necessary to add that the Tokyo Convention did not come into force until the end of 1969 and, by world standards, our ratification was a reasonably prompt one in that case. In the meantime, of course, we had passed our 1963 Act which covered the domestic position. So, it was not as though we had left people unprotected while we looked at the Tokyo Convention and did not ratify it. That would not be a correct picture at all. We passed an Act in 1963 creating the offences and protecting the people. When the time came and the Tokyo Convention came into force at the end of 1969, we then moved to ratify it. 
In other cases, too, we have moved in this international atmosphere reasonably quickly. Australia is a country which does not just sign a thing in international affairs unless it is in a position to make its signing effective by ratification and legislation. I know that many countries do not observe this approach to conventions and though they can be found listed among the early signatories, the conventions are not always found to be reflected in their laws. Australia believes that the actual protection of the people is the important thing and in this field our law has in fact substantially covered the field. What is happening with this Bill, in which we are putting into effect the Hague Convention, is that we are slightly extending the ambit of our existing' law. True, that is an improvement, but even before this the area has not been merely a vacant area in which people were unprotected. We are simply improving the position and I think this should be put into perspective. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  referred to a particular case. Let me say first of all that it is difficult to make exceptions because this whole problem not only relates to the violent acts, damage to property and injuries to people that occur in relation to hijacking; around the world, hijacking has now reached proportions which present a serious threat to innocent people travelling by air. Air travel around the world is now a very common and widely accepted method of travelling and this whole method of travelling will be under threat unless the nations of the world, acting strongly together - it will require action by all of them - prevent this from occurring so that hijackers will see the virtual certainty of their apprehension and punishment and so that there will be no refuge anywhere for the man who commits such interference. Therefore, it is a very dangerous principle to start suggesting that there should be exceptions 
WhileI appreciate the points which the honourable member for Prospect put forward.I think that they are better dealt with in the way in which we can deal with them in this country, namely, by the nonreturn of an offender in particular cases. Our extradition laws, which would be the laws applied to the return of an offender to his country of origin, do leave some discretion with the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  Particular circumstances, especially the case of a political refugee or something of that kind, could well be taken into account by the Attorney-General in exercising the element of discretion that is left to him in giving effect to the extradition section of the legislation.I think that is probably the better way to leave it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
en - The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The only indication I can provide of the amount of money likely to be held in the trust accounts of solicitors in the Australian Capital Territory is the amount that is currently held by the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory under Division 7 of Part VII of the Legal Practitioners Ordinance of the Territory, I have been advised by the Law Society that that amount is $529,601.59. Under the Ordinance, the amount required to be deposited by an individual solicitor with the Law Society is one-half of the lowest amount that stood to the credit of his general trust account during the preceding year. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Legal Practitioners Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory does not contain a requirement of the kind referred to in this part of the question. The Ordinance does require a solicitor to keep on deposit with the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory during each year a sum equal to one-half of the lowest balance in his general trust account during the preceding year. The Law Society is required to invest the whole of the moneys so deposited on interestbearing deposit with a bank in the Territory. Deposits presently invested will produce an annual income of $26,907.68. 
No rate of interest is prescribed by, the Ordinance. The rate at present applicable varies between 4.5 per cent per annum and 5.3 per cent per annum. 
The Legal Aid Committee of the Australian Capital Territory has advised that it estimates it will receive approximately $7,620.00 by way of contributions from applicants who have been granted legal aid under the Legal Aid Ordinance 1972 for the period from 1st July 1972 to 30th June 1973. 
The Legal Aid Committee has advised that it estimates the cost of operating the scheme of legal aid provided by the Legal Aid Ordinance 1972 for the period from 1st July 1972 to 30th June 1973 to be 8102,602.00. 
, (6), (7), and (8) As appears in the answer to part (1), these parts of the question are based on a misunderstanding of the relevant provisions of the Ordinance. It would not be appropriate to canvass in this answer the considerations that were taken into account in the preparation of the Ordinance. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Consideration was given to this matter in 1970 by the Attorney-General's Department and the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Treasury and Defence, and the Public Service Board. The proposal was not proceeded with at that time. The Commonwealth is well served in law of the sea matters by the Solicitor-General and officers within the Commonwealth Public Service. In 1971 the Attorney-General's Department, by arrangement with the University concerned, engaged the services of a University lawyer for a term of years as a Special Assistant in International Law. 
While the arrangements provided in the normal course of Government administration have functioned effectively, the Government will continue to keep in mind whether those arrangements could at any time be usefully supplemented by the establishment of a Law of the Sea Institute. One important consideration would be the availability of suitable personnel 
 The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The honourable member is referred to the answers given to questions previously asked by him (Hansard, 12th August 1969, page 153, and 11 and 12th September 1969, pages 1260, 1261, 1964 and 1265). There has been no change in the information he seeks since those answers were given.  : ' . 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
What period of time elapses between the making of an application to register a trade mark and  taken in dealing with these matters; and 
whether the registration of the mark is opposed by an interested person. Where no objection is raised by the Examiner of Trade Marks and no one commences opposition proceedings, the average time that elapses from the date of lodgment of an application for registration of a trade mark to the date of registration is 14 months. Because of the large number of applications awaiting examination, an Examiner's report on an application is not made for approximately 10 months after the date of lodgment of the application. In addition, a period of 3 months after the acceptance of an application, is provided by the Trade Marks Act during which notice of opposition to the registration of the mark may be lodged. 
Australian Capital Territory: Leasehold Land  (Question No. 6421)  Mr Enderby  asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has leasehold land in the Australian Capital Territory ever been auctioned by reference to the rent to be paid rather than the price or premium to be paid; if so, when and for how long did the practice exist. 
Was the practice general in ils application or specific in relation to certain areas or certain types of land. 
Why was the practice introduced, and what were the reasons put forward at the time for its discontinuance. 
Will land be cheaper if leases are again auctioned in this way. 
Are any disadvantages likely to be associated with this proposal. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Convention No. 29 Forced Labour 1930. 
Convention No. 50 Recruiting of Indigenous Workers 1936. 
Convention No. 64 Contracts of Employment (Indigenous Workers) 1939. 
Convention No. 65 Penal Sanctions (Indigenous Workers) 1939. 
Convention No. 84 Right of Association (NonMetropolitan Territories) 1947. 
Convention No. 85 Labour Inspectorates (NonMetropolitan Territories) 1947. 
Francis Sanford (Question No. 6365) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that M. Sanford is not the Mayor of Papeete but is Mayor of the municipality of Faaa on Tahiti. He is the Deputy for French Polynesia in the French National Assembly. 
M. Sanford travelled to the United Nations in early July with sr resolution opposing French nuclear tests passed by the Permanent Commission of the French Polynesian Territorial Assembly. 
At no time was Qantas requested to provide a passage for M. Sanford. 
I have no information as to whether or not M. Sanford was refused permission to broadcast over radio in Tahiti. 
and (6) M. Sanford sent a tape recording to Radio Australia. However, as it was in Tahitian - a language in which Radio Australia does not broadcast - the recording was not and will not be used. This explanation was given to M. Sanford when the tape recording was returned to him. 
No. This would seem to be a matter between M. Sanford and the French authorities. 
Repatriation Hospitals: Facilities for the Incurable or Chronically Til  (Question No. 6410) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Representatives of Australia, New Zealand, Bolivia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Fiji, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand attended the meeting. The meeting discussed ad referendum the action the group might take in the General Assembly with the aim of achieving suspension of nuclear weapons tests in all environments, and in particular French nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere in the Pacific area. A large majority of the group decided that it would be desirable to table an appropriate resolution in the General Assembly this year. A joint Australia-New Zealand draft resolution was tabled on 19th October with the following co-sponsors: Australia, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Fiji, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Philippines and Thailand. 
No. The opinion has been noted with interest but the Government considers it more appropriate at present to explore alternative avenues including that of action at this year's General Assembly of the United Nations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Aid to the East Pakistani Refugees 
Altogether $A5.5m was originally allocated for the relief of the East Pakistani refugees in India in a series of 5 pledges made by the Government between 2nd June 1971 and 27th October 1971. Of this sum, $A2m was subsequently diverted to Bangladesh after the war and when the refugees began to return. 
The funds used to assist the refugees in India were channelled as follows: 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
On 13th April of this year, the Minister for Supply presented to Parliament Report No. 3 (December 1971) of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee which stated: 
All of the radiation doses from fresh fallout in 1971 are small: they are lower than those for the series of nuclear weapons tests in Polynesia in 1966 and comparable to those for 1968 and 1970. The National Radiation Advisory Committee considers that radiation doses of this magnitude are of no significance as a hazard to health. 
The Australian Government protested to the French Government in 1968, 1970 and 1971. 
On 29th March 1972, a Note expressing the opposition and concern of the Governmentoward the conduct of French nuclear tests in the Pacific was delivered to the French Ambassador in Canberra by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs issued a statement to this effect on the same day. The Government's opposition and concern have also been conveyed to the French Government in Paris by, the Australian Ambassador and in Canberra by the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
No. 
At the 1971 United Nations General Assembly, Australia co-sponsored, along with 14 other nations, a resolution condemning nuclear testing in the Pacific and seeking the banning of all types of nuclear weapons tests. 
Certain other Governments have also made public and private statements/representations on the issue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Commonwealth Legislation: The relevant provisions were as follows: 
Section 64 of the Migration. Act 1958-1966. Section 423a of the Navigation Act 1912- 
1970. 
Section 4 of the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act 1957-1968. 
Section 423A of the Navigation Act was repealed by the Navigation Act 1972. It is proposed to repeal Section 64 of the Migration Act when the next bill to amend the Migration Act is introduced. Legislation is before the Parliament to provide that Australian Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, now receiving war compensation and associated benefits under the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act 1957-1968, will receive these benefits under the Repatriation Act 1920- 1972. 
State Legislation: The following State laws were considered to contain provisions that were, or could be regarded as, incompatible with the Convention: 
en - The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Proceedings in connection with the 62 charges laid in respect of incidents arising out of the demonstrations at the Springbok Rugby Match at Manuka Oval on 21st July 1971 have now concluded. In 19 cases the persons concerned were acquitted and in 6 no penalty was imposed. In 25 cases the charges were either discontinued or no evidence was offered against the accused person and in one case the Deputy Crown Solicitor declined to consent to the prosecution. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
None of the provisions of the Draft Criminal Code have yet been adopted in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. 
So far as I am aware, none of the provisions of the Draft Criminal Code for the Australian Territories has been copied in any State but many of the provisions of the Draft Code are, of course, based on existing State law. 
The Minister for Education  (Mr 
Beazley) is always easy to listen to, even when he is talking about matters that are not before the Parliament at the time. At present we have before us a motion to take note of the statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  I was interested to hear the views of the Minister for Education on Indonesia under Sukarno, or even the value of the Polaris missile as a weapon of defence, and would be quite happy to debate those subjects with the Minister at some appropriate time. I think it would make an interesting debate. Tonight we are discussing the statement made by the Minister for Defence about United States bases in Australia and the amendment which has been proposed by the Opposition. The statement by the Minister for Defence covered 5 installations, of which the North West Cape naval communication station was only one. Another 2 were at Amberley and Alice Springs. As far as I am aware those bases have not been the subject of any serious questioning by either side of this House. It is clear from the Minister's statement that there is no foundation for any complaint whatever about either of these installations, either under the previous Government or under the present Government which intends to continue them. 
There has been considerable complaint in the past by the Australian Labor Party concerning the North West Cape naval communication station. Honourable members will recall that at the time the base was established the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Calwell,  and the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  had to wait upon the Australian Labor Party's Federal Conference for a decision about what their attitude should be towards the North West Cape station. They were instructed by the ALP Conference to oppose its installation, and they did oppose it. It is now quite clear from what the Minister for Defence has said that the present Government no longer holds that view, but rather holds the view which the previous Government held about the North West Cape installation, that it should be maintained, subject only to one qualification, that is, Article 3, the only relevant matter on which the Minister for Education dwelt. 
The Minister for Defence certainly has made the point that he will consult the United States Government to ensure that the agreement between the United States and Australia regarding North West Cape is literally applied and that letters exchanged 10 years ago interpreting Article 3 will in some way be altered or superseded. This is a minor matter, but great play was made by the Minister for Education about  Sir Garfield  Barwick agreeing that the word 'consult' in Article 3 meant consult. 1 would not have thought that was very surprising. I should think that anyone who believes it does not mean consult but means control would have a job ahead of him. However, I do not object to the Government's saying that at least it will talk to the United States about the meaning of Article 3.  Sir Garfield  Barwick as a lawyer was not a man who easily gave very much away on the interpretation of words. Article 3, if any honourable member wishes to read it, says: 'We will consult'. That meant, and the letters exchanged said we agreed that it meant, consult. 'Consult' does not bind either party to take notice of what is said in the consultation. I should have thought that went almost without saying. I do not object to the fact that 10 years later the Government wants to make a great point of the meaning of the word 'consult', or suggests that it means perhaps a little more, perhaps a sharing of control. If the Government can get that, good luck to it. 
The Government should not suggest that  Sir Garfield  Barwick was giving anything away on the interpretation of the agreement. The fact is that the title to and sovereignty of the land on which the signal station is situated belongs to Australia and remains vested in the Australian Government. Furthermore, as I understand it, busloads of tourists are shown over the base from time to time. 1 have visited it myself. North West Cape is not one of those highly crucial and highly secret stations that need to be the deep concern that it has been in the complaints so far made by the Australian Labor Party. I do not think the present Minister for Defence has suggested that there is this objection to it. For all the noise that was made by the Minister for Education, it is not that type of base, lt is clear that the past complaints of the Australian Labor Party were lacking in any foundation apart from some kind of militant antiAmericanism which motivated them. 
I refer now to the 2 more recent installations, those at Pine Gap and Woomera. Many honourable members will recall the relatively frenetic complaints that were made about them in this House by various members of the Australian Labor Party. These complaints were persisted in, notwithstanding that the Government at the time made 3 points quite clear, lt made it quite clear that these installations were not part of a weapons system and were not able to be used to attack any country. It made it clear that the Australian national interest and independence were not jeopardised by the agreements under which these installations were allowed on Australian soil. It made it clear that it was necessary to preserve secrecy with respect to certain aspects of these installations. The previous Government's assurances on these points seemed only to drive the Australian Labor Party critics in the Parliament to increased frenzy in their complaints. Yet the Minister's present statement adopts these 3 points as the reasons for present Government policy. It certainly offers access to members of this Parliament - that would be a difference - but his statement makes it quite clear that the matters of secrecy will continue to be withheld from honourable members and the public as before and this apparent concession is really only a marginal alteration of the previous Government's attitude. 
In the broad, the Minister's statement regarding the 2 bases in central Australia confirms the attitude of the previous Government. I am not complaining about this. On the contrary, the Minister who is now in the seat of responsibility has a sense of responsibility in recognising the correctness of the previous Government's policy on these bases. I only hope that in the interests of Australia the Minister for Defence will be able to stand up to the perfervid critics within his own Party who have shown their dislike of America and who criticised the policy of my Party when it was in Government and who may now, I fear, become his critics because he has given precisely the same reasons as my Party gave. I believe the House should take the opportunity afforded by the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition to make clear its views on these bases so that there may be an end to this sniping and criticism of the bases. In this way the world in general and the United States in particular will know where Australia stands in relation to these bases. Honourable members should give the Minister that much support and pass this amendment so that we will have, in substance, a bipartisan policy on this important matter. Perhaps it could serve as an example and a precedent for other defence and foreign affairs subjects because this is an area where in a democratic country, it is certainly in the interests of the country if the contending political parties can arrive at bipartisan policies. Let me cite some other examples. The Minister for Defence puts forward in his statement precisely the reasons that the Opposition put forward earlier. I only suggested to him that we wanted to give him support. 
 Do not talk about irrelevancies. There are other instances where this applies. Before the last election the Australian Labor Party deleted from its platform all reference to the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. It was described by the then Opposition's spokesman on foreign affairs, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  as an irrelevant dead horse. I can understand this view being held by academics and by the honourable member. After all, there were the obvious changes which anyone taking a superficial look at the world could have been impressed by at once. France and Pakistan had virtually left SEATO. The world, particularly South East Asia, had changed since SEATO was entered into. 
Yet since attaining Government the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has had talks with the Prime Minister of New Zealand which I understand covered SEATO among other topics. It appears that now that the Government has the responsibility, it is looking in depth at this matter and has a greater appreciation of the current residual significance of the Manila Treaty.  Senator Willesee,  Special Minister of State and Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in an address given at Perth University on 19th January this year, spoke of the Government's recognition of the importance which certain members continued to attach to the Treaty. He indicated that the Government did not propose to make any significant changes without first consulting especially with Thailand, the Philippines and the United States. This is almost a return to the bi-partisan policy followed previously by the present Opposition when in government. From my own experience as Foreign Minister, I know what these countries would say if they were consulted. It may be that here too is an area where, if real responsibility is assumed, there is a measure of agreement between us and an end to the previous criticisms so much based on political grounds. 
As to the Five-Power Arrangements, it seems that there is a new found disposition, at least on the part of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence, to appreciate for the first time the significance of these regional arrangements. As to the continued stationing of some support troops in Singapore, it is not yet clear what the outcome will be. Perhaps we will not know what the policy of the Government is on this matter until the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party at Surfers Paradise in July tells the Government what it must do. But at least the Prime Minister's visit to Indonesia and the gentle admonition on this matter given to him by the Indonesian Foreign Minister.  Mr Adam  Malik, can have left the Prime Minister in no doubt about the views of our nearest and largest neighbour on the significance of the stationing of Australian troops in Singapore under the Five-Power Arrangements. So, I suggest to the House that we should welcome the substance of the approach adopted by the Minister for Defence as outlined in his statement which is the subject of this debate. We can give effective expression to that view by carrying the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In referring, in his recent answer, to persons who had been convicted of crimes hemp mentioned in the Parliament, he did in the course of his answer make a very serious allegation against my colleague in the other place who was the previous Attorney-General and suggested that he had covered up for such persons. I ask the Prime Minister: Will he now, in fairness to my colleague, name the instances where he suggests that this has occurred in order that the former Attorney-General may have an opportunity of defending himself against this serious charge? 
en asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the boundary between Papua New Guinea and Indonesia now been settled. 
If so, will he table in the House the relevant documents. 
en asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What international conventions, treaties and agreements have been signed, ratified or acceded to by Australia since 2nd December 1972, and upon what dates. 
 The Opposition will support this motion to appoint a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and will join in the appointment of members to take part in the work of the committee. We regard foreign affairs as an area in which rapid change and development is still taking place in the world. Australia has to meet new challenges and devise new policies. We believe that the Australian people expect and are entitled to expect a reappraisal of our foreign policy. May I say that we recognise that by their vote at the last election many Australians have demonstrated a belief that they thought the Australian Labor Party was likely to bring about some of these adjustments which the people thought were necessary or at least that Labor would try to bring them about. We do not run away from that conclusion. The Liberal Opposition in its own organisation and in its own committees will be making its own reappraisal of foreign policy in the light of that conclusion. It would not be correct to say that in any sense we have a closed mind and I hope that this joint committee will itself supply a forum where new policy areas can be investigated and where evidence from experts can be discussed by the committee. I note particularly in paragraph (1) (a) of the motion that the Committee will be appointed to consider and report upon foreign affairs and defence generally. This appears to give it in its constitution and charter some width in its capacity to inquire into matters of foreign affairs and defence generally. 
I will come later to the latter parts of its constitution which are set out in the motion. But firstly may I say that I do not want what I have said to be taken to suggest that the Liberal Party in government was not in fact responding to changing events. I believe it was doing so, and indeed to a very much greater extent and much faster than it was ever given credit for. The changes we made over recent times were both significant and substantial. The Vietnam war was winding down. The United States was withdrawing its land forces from Asia, although still maintaining the enormous interest which it has in the Pacific area and indeed extending its Pacific command to a longitude the other side of Pakistan in the Indian Ocean. The People's Republic of China, after looking inwards for so long, was looking outwards to an increasing degree. Mainland China finally was admitted as a member of the United Nations. The previous government was not oblivious of these events. Indeed, when the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  was Minister for Foreign Affairs he initiated a major study of the relationship of Australia with the People's Republic of China. There was evidence of the movement in Australia's policy under the previous government towards the Government of that country. 
Australia had joined the South Pacific Forum relatively recently, demonstrating as a member, with the independence of Fiji in particular and the changes in this region, the direct interest of Australia. Indeed, as Foreign Minister I hosted a South Pacific Forum meeting in Canberra. We established a joint ministerial committee with Japan and as Foreign Minister I had the honour of hosting the first meeting of this committee in Canberra where 5 Japanese Ministers and corresponding Australian Ministers were in session for some days. This was probably the largest delegation of senior Japanese Ministers to visit another country, again demonstrating the initiative and the reaction of the previous Government to the changing circumstances of modern times. 
Also as Foreign Minister 1 made it my business to visit Tokyo, Djakarta and New Delhi, just to mention some of our largest neighbours and ones of special significance to Australia. Of course, I visited other countries of significance to us as well. Having in mind the movements, particularly in the Middle East, in the positions of Soviet Russia and the United States of America, as well as the intensity of the threat to peace in that area generally, we applied to become a member of and were successful in joining the United Nations Security Council. We had plans further to develop our policies in relation to Africa, the Middle East and the enlarged European community. We changed the control of Australia House in London to the jurisdiction of the Department of Foreign Affairs having particularly in mind that we were building up our Brussells Embassy and had joined the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Therefore, I reject utterly the proposition that the previous Government was not in fact responding actively and with speed to changing circumstances. 
This brings me back to the point which I was making earlier in my remarks. The responsibility in these matters is an obligation on all parties. It is an obligation which the Labor Party in Government is undertaking as it sees the situation. As I say, the Opposition does not resist the conclusion that the Australian people are looking for greater adjustments and changes, and ones which perhaps they can more readily appreciate. The Liberal Party understands this and will be working on this joint committee and in its own areas of research and study with this in mind. 
Let me say also that in some respects the Australian people have not fully appreciated the extent and the nature of the changes in foreign policy which the Labor Government in office has been introducing. I think it would be not unfair to describe the movement in Australian foreign policy as being towards parallelism with the policies of Peking and Hanoi. There must be a desire in the Labor Government to align Australia with what is called, in the modern jargon, the third world*. There are difficulties and possibilities of risk for Australia in these policies which need to be explored and brought to public view. I gather that the Government is seeking an invitation, as though it were a great initiative, to the Algiers conference of the so-called non-aligned nations. I gather also that  Mr Bijedic,  during his recent visit here, offered his sponsorship to Australia in its efforts to obtain an invitation to this conference. Whether we will achieve observership status at this conference I do not know. But these are matters of considerable significance to the future of Australian foreign policy which the Australian people ought to consider. 
Ultimately the test that must be applied to all initiatives in Australian foreign policy is whether what is proposed is in the best interests of Australia. Whatever we do must answer this test. I am by no means satisfied that some of the initiatives which have been taken since the present Government came to power answer this test. Since the Labor Party gained office there has been an undoubted change in our relations with the United States of America and with our nearest large neighbour, Indonesia. These changes have been for the worse. There has been a degree of deterioration in those relationships for Australia, notwithstanding whatever may have been said by the Prime Minister in his answers to questions this morning. 
These changes flow not only from statements, which have been referred to, which were made by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the Minister for the Environment  (Dr Cass)  or the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr Cairns),  who referred to maniacs in the White House. These remarks had their impact in America but Americans are people with an adult approach who do not take such remarks as a basis for denying to the Australian Prime Minister the right to go to the United States, to be received there and spoken to. He may be told a thing , or two if he goes to America, but there is no question that if the Prime Minister, after he visits the United Kingdom, wishes to call in at Washington, as one would expect him to do, he should do so. 
Before I leave the subject of America I suggest that it does not help our relations with that country for the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to suggest that 3 things are certain - death, taxes and the continued devaluation of the American dollar. These remarks are headlined in America and are damaging to our relations with America, which are too valuable to be treated in this fashion. The Prime Minister, who is also Foreign Minister, has a very great responsibility to see that Australian foreign policy answers the test that I mentioned previously of at all times being in the long term interests of Australia. I do not wish to dwell further in my remarks on the appointment of a joint committee on the visit to Indonesia by the Prime Minister. But that visit did reveal to honourable members and to the Australian people a degree of naivety and even of arrogance in the Prime Minister's approach to Asian regionalism and a lack of understanding of the Asian view of these problems which required  Mr Adam  Malik, the Indonesian Foreign Minister, to give the Prime Minister a very gentle admonition or instruction when he was there. 1 do not think that this has improved Australia's relationship with Indonesia. 
I return to the detail of the motion before the House. Paragraph 1 (b) speaks of matters being referred to the committee by the Ministei for Foreign Affairs, by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  or by resolution of either House. If the Opposition joins the Government with goodwill, as it intends to do, in the operation of this committee, I hope that what is, according to what I read in the Press, to be the first matter to be referred to this committee - that is, the military significance of Omega' stations - is not typical of what will be referred to this committee. These stations, which are civil navigational aids to shipping, are to be established in Australia. In answer to a question in the House on this subject the Minister for Defence said that these stations were not a matter for him and that they came under the portfolio of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  That is right enough. Yet this approach is not satisfactory to the left wing of the Labor Party. It does not like American bases and it does not like Americans. Therefore, to get the Government off the hook with elements of its own Party, this Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs is solemnly asked to meet and to consider the Omega stations. If that is the sort of subject which will be referred to the Committee, we will be wasting a large part of our time. 
I suggest that the Committee should be given serious matters to consider and indeed that its sitting times will be such that members, spokesmen perhaps, on this side of the House, who, honourable members opposite will recall as it is not so long since they were on this side, have quite a lot to do, will be able to attend and take part in the deliberations of this Committee. Therefore the sitting times of and the references to this Committee will determine whether it will be able to operate successfully in the way in which it should. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Before I call the next member I remind the House that the subject of this debate is the setting up of a committee. It is not a general debate on foreign affairs. I allowed some latitude to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on this matter but I would remind honourable members that this is not a general debate on foreign affairs. 
I have a special interest in this small Bill because in 1968. when I had the honour to have the portfolio of Attorney-General, I established a committee to prepare a new code of evidence for the Australian Capital Territory. At that time in the Territory we were applying the New South Wales law, which was in the Evidence Act of 1898 and partly in the Crimes Act of 1900. It was considered, at any rate by me, to be somewhat out of date. I appointed the committee, which was headed by  Mr Justice  Fox, with the object, in the first place, of preparing a new evidence code which would be something of model for the rest of Australia. As the work proceeded, this was found to be a very heavy task. We consulted various experts. For example, we consulted, among others, Professor Cross who assisted the British with their 1968 Evidence Act. Professor Cross was lecturing in Australia and he has written a standard work on evidence. 
It became apparent that the task would be  a  long one. In the result, what occurred was that the most obvious deficiencies were cured or attempted to be cured by this committee and a new evidence ordinance was prepared for the Australian Capital Territory which was a very great advance on anything previously but which I would not have described as the ultimate model code for Australia. For example, it provided for the admission of statements in writing and made other provisions on hearsay. It provided for the admission in evidence of statements from computers, with proper safeguards. These were somewhat novel provisions in Australia. Nevertheless, so far  as  it went, it was a good ordinance. It came into operation .aid, thereafter, cases in the Australian Capital Territory were conducted with this ordinance governing the provisions relating to evidence. 
This ordinance came before the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances which took a view which should be referred to in this House. The Committee took the view not that the ordinance was bad but, in effect, that it was so good that its provisions should be enacted in the form of legislation and not by ordinance.. 
That it should be dealt with by the Parliament in the form of a Bill. So many substantive provisions, such as the new companies legislation, had been allowed to be enacted by ordinance that the. prospect of putting every decent piece of legislation as it affected the Australian Capital Territory through this Parliament was a daunting one. Nevertheless, the Senate, on the recommendation of its Regulations and Ordinances Committee, decided to disallow the ordinance which was considered to be a good one. The result of that was that for a period there was no law of evidence applying in the Australian Capital Territory and for about a week it was not possible even to try criminals satisfactorily in the courts of the Australian Capital Territory. This obviously was a position that could not be allowed to continue. So the first attempt was made to produce a short Act to continue the terms of the ordinance in force until such time as a Bill could be. introduced and debated as desired by the Senate Committee. Time went on. In fact, as my learned friend, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  said. a Bill eventually was introduced by my colleague,  Senator Greenwood,  and brought before the Senate in order to put it in the form of an Act. It was debated for some days. It reached the Committee stage in the Senate, but it was not passed. Again, there was the risk of expiry and the Territory being left without any law of evidence. So, another Bill was introduced to extend the provisions of the ordinance, and today we are debating the matter again. This ordinance, supported by the other short Act, expires on 21st March and we are confronted with the necessity of passing another Bill to continue the ordinance in force. 
I cannot oppose that being done; it obviously is absolutely necessary. But I do register this degree of protest: There was no objection in substance to the ordinance. It was felt that it contained substantive provisions which the Senate would have liked to have debated. The Senate could have debated those provisions on the ordinance, but it did not. The Senate wanted to debate them in the form of a statute. I respectfully suggest that this is not a practical way of proceeding until there is some form of self-government in the Territory where its laws can be debated, if necessary, but not necessarily in the national Parliament thus delaying the enormous legislative program that we necessarily have in this place. I do not want to delay the passage of this Bill. As I said, 1 agree with my learned friend that the Bill is necessary, and we do not oppose it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his reference to the interim reply of the previous Government to the Yugoslav aide-memoire of 16th August 1972 as being a 'lie'. In view of the fact that his own Attorney-General in the Senate described it as a bland interim reply, mentioning the matter was being investigated and making no admissions, and that - to adopt some of his own words - only a malevolent or inefficient reporter could refer to it in the terms used by the Prime Minister, will he now table the interim report so that honourable members and the people of Australia may judge for themselves? 
I wish to  make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented to a degree by imputation in the reference that was made to the interim reply to Yugoslavia. Insofar as I was connected with this matter, I want to make it quite clear to the House that there was no lie or anything misleading involved in it. I have asked that it be tabled. I understand the regular practice is not to table. I will take into consideration the offer that has been made by the Prime Minister, but it is an offer contingent on tabling a whole lot of other documents as well, apparently. I want to make this quite clear in view of the fact that one cannot see the document - it is not tabled - that it was not a lie and it was not an untrue document that went to the Yugoslav Government. In the course of his reply the Prime Minister really retreated to the position that successive governments over 10 years had failed to assert or acknowledge that there were terrorist groups. That was really what he was saying - not that the document conveyed any untruth or any lie but that it lacked an element of assertion that he thought ought to be in it. 
The Opposition will not oppose the motion to appoint the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital which will examine and report on all proposals for modifications or variations of the plan of the lay-out of the City of Canberra and its environs, which was published in 1925. The Committee also will report on such other matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory as may be referred to it either by the Minister for the 
Capital Territory or by resolution of either House of the Parliament. 
A parliamentary committee relating to the affairs in the Territory has existed for many years. The first such committee was appointed by the Senate and was purely a Senate committee. Later this committee became a joint committee of both Houses and this practice continued up to the dissolution of the last Parliament. When the committee became a joint committee of both Houses the practice adopted was that 5 senators and 4 members of this House made up the committee and that  chairman  of the committee was always a senator. The present proposal is for a joint committee of 9, but on this occasion with 4 members from the Senate and 5 from this House. 
One further matter which needs to be mentioned is that paragraph 5 of the motion to set up the committee provides: 
That the Prime Minister nominate one of the government members of the committee as Chairman. 
I understand that an amendment will be moved in the Senate to substitute a new paragraph. Without having the precise words to give to the House, the amendment will be to the effect that the Committee elect its  chairman  and that the  chairman  should be one of the members nominated by the Labour Government in the Senate. 
-I do not. I will not delay the proceedings by moving the amendment here. I foreshadow that this action will be taken in the Senate. 
I think that because this amendment will be moved in the Senate I should make some comment on paragraph 5. The proposed amendment reflects 2 ideas. The first is that chairmen of House committees of this Parliament should be elected by the committees themselves and not, as it were, by the Executive. Secondly, following the precedent set in regard to earlier joint House committees relating to the Australian Capital Territory, the Opposition in the Senate will be seeking to continue the practice of having a senator as  chairman  of the proposed Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. Let me make it clear that no objection is being taken to the Government having a majority of members on the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. That being the case, it might be said that we are not opposing the notion that someone from the Government side will chair the committee. That is not the point. However, I do stress to the House the principle involved that joint House committees should elect their own  chairman.  This has been the practice in the past. I think there were 3 occasions in 1941 when the House in appointing committees purported to elect the chairmen because there was an equality of members from either side on those committees. But otherwise, speaking broadly, the practice has been that it is not left to the Executive to appoint the chairmen of committees. The committees which represent the Houses of Parliament should appoint their chairmen. I ask that when the Government in the future is seeking the approval of the House to establish House Committees it should bear in mind these observations. As I have said, the Opposition does not oppose the appointment of the committee. 
The Opposition is not opposing this Bill. By Act No. 48 of 1971, the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971 which came into force on 25th May that year, the old law relating to compensation for Commonwealth employees was repealed. The original Act passed in 1930 had been amended from time to time. Inadequacies had been found in the old Act and, although it had been amended in this way, the system for compensation to 
Commonwealth employees was unsatisfactory. For one thing, a delegate of the Treasurer would determine certain facts. Very often the employee was not aware of the total basis of information on which the decision was made. Any opportunity for him to contest the decision was slight. The 1971 Act which followed quite long investigations by a sub-committee of Cabinet - of which, incidentally, I had the honour to be a member - brought into effect a new system which established the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation. This gave the employee the right, after the Commissioner had made a decision, if the employee was dissatisfied with it, to call for a copy of the documents including medical reports before the Commissioner and to take his appeal to a tribunal to which he had a right of appeal. He had not had this right previously. 
The 1971 Act greatly improved and modernised the law relating to compensation. I think it is fair to say that at the time it was passed, taken by and large it was in advance of almost every other piece of workers* compensation legislation in Australia. In saying this I feel bound to add that some of the matters which were included in it then were matters for which the present Minister for Labor  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  had at one time or another been contending. As far back as 1964 he had been suggesting some of the things that found their way into the 1971 Act. In 1970 when he was in Opposition he had produced a Bill which included some of the matters which found their way into the 1971 Act. I do not seek to take away from him the fact that the matters he was putting forward were taken into consideration by the sub-committee of Cabinet when it was working on what eventually became the 1971 Act. The Minister has taken an interest in this matter for a long time. 
The Bill presently before the House represents a further movement along the road upon which we set ourselves in the 1971 Act. In principle, I find myself unable to disagree with it. At the same time it should be pointed out that one of the restrictions upon the previous Government and upon any government in introducing reforms which give benefits to a section of the community is the state of the economy and the effect that what the Government is doing is going to have on the generality of people in Australia. This involves a question of equity between different sections of the community. It involves a question of timing. Perhaps only time will tell whether the certainly beneficial improvements in compensation which are made for Commonwealth employees by this Bill have been properly timed, will preserve equity and will not contribute to what undoubtedly will be one of our increasing problems - that of inflation. The risks are that it will flow on to the State systems. Already the Commonwealth has one of the best systems. There is a tendency for it to flow on and to multiply the benefits in that way. There is a tendency for it to flow on to workers whose compensation is payable by private employers. This multiplies the cost to the community and in the case of small businesses may lead, in relation to rates of insurance, to problems for them in maintaining their viability. These problems have to be faced inevitably in a reform of this character and are part of the. reason why the previous Government stopped at the point it did in exercising the sense of responsibility which it brought to the matter. This Bill is the choice of that present Government. It is its responsibility and choice. J only announce that inevitably this warning has to be given. 
In his second reading speech the Minister suggested that to some extent acknowledging the increased cost involved in these measures could be a counter to this. It could in some way be balanced by improving the provisions relating to the prevention of industrial accidents. He said he had decided to recommend to Cabinet the establishment of a representative committee to draw up a uniform code of safety standards for adoption by all the departments. I think that anyone with a knowledge of this general subject would agree that there is room for improvement in taking steps to reduce the incidence of industrial accidents. There is room for improvement. 
I think too that the Minister will agree that when he was speaking on our legislation in 1971 and 1972 he complimented the Minister in charge of the Bill on the steps he had taken in regard to vocational training and rehabilitation to meet this very problem. He then expressed a degree of criticism of the then Minister for not having introduced into his Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill provision for regulations to lay down standards of industrial safety and the like. Yet here the Minister in introducing his Bill is not able, to bring forward a power in the Bill to regulate this by a regulation-making power. He too is deferring it to a later day. lt is a difficult problem, as I think now, when he has to tackle it with responsibility himself, he would be inclined to agree. One can only hope that when he brings forward this machinery for the enforcement of a new code of safety standards for adoption by departments it will make some impact on this question of cost, because unless there is this counterbalancing factor, the effect so far as inflation is concerned will be significant. It will be multiplied by the flow-on effect of this legislation and therefore in the long run it will have the ill-effects which inflation has when it takes over control. 
The Opposition supports the appointment of the Select Committee on Road Safety. As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has indicated, the previous Government appointed a select committee on road safety last year. It operated for a short period. We favour the reappointment of the Committee. We will support it and join in its work. The problems of road safety are enormously difficult. They face each of us day by day. We are all conscious of them, so much so that as has been mentioned we seem to come to accept the inevitability of injuries and deaths on the roads. The Government can be assured" that whatever support is needed for this type of inquiry will be given by the Opposition. Subject to the measures which flow from the recommendations being consistent with the position of this Parliament and co-operation with the States, and being in the interests of the people, as I believe they will, they will have the support of this side of the House. I also commend the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Opposition does not oppose the motion as amended for the appointment of a 
Joint Committee on the Environment and Conservation. The question of the environment involves difficulties, and the more inquiry there can be in a central way, the more information that is given to members of Parliament and the more experience gained from listening to experts that we have, the better it will be. When I was Minister for Education and Science I took up this whole question with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. At that time it had about 38 divisions with a chief at the head of each division. At that time 25 of the divisions were separately concerned with particular matters affecting the environment. My first thought was that it might be a good idea to combine them all in one central organisation, all of them working to the same end. 
I met some difficulties because the people dealing with particular problems in the Wildlife Division were working amongst people who had the same disciplines and expertise that they had. The people working in the marine science field were working with those who had expertise and experience in the marine science field. There was no point in taking one man from each group, putting them together and expecting that they would necessarily produce a better result than if they proceeded initially in their separate ways. Even to this time they are proceeding in their own disciplines. However, overall direction is necessary. We perhaps have something to learn from the experience in the United States of America and Canada in this matter. I recall talking to the  chairman  of the council of advisers to the  President  on this subject,  Mr Russell  Train, who is backed up by a first class scientist,  Dr McDonald,  in Washington. He looked at all federal submissions to see their effect on the environment and in effect made an impact statement. In addition to that they were then setting up something that we do not have here, a department of protection of the environment under a  Mr Ruckelshaus,  who was taken from the Attorney-General's Department. He was a young lawyer in his thirties who was setting up this department with about 16,000 officers to police the enforcement of all environmental laws throughout America. Prime Minister Trudeau also had similar types of advisers. 
Our own problems, of course, are somewhat different from theirs, but there is no question about the need for a national approach as well as a local approach to these problems. The major responsibility up to the present time has rested with the State governments. I have had particularly close association with the New South Wales Government in relation to the environment in my own electorate, particularly as it affects the Parramatta River. Some members of the House may recall that at one stage the City of Parramatta was larger than the City of Sydney at the time of early settlement. The people of Parramatta used to refer to Sydney as their port, and of course they used to travel up the Parramatta by ship. But it is getting a bit thick towards the western end of the Parramatta River and I had been endeavouring to persuade scientists to come in and and do a test and make recommendations. But in point of fact, the Minister for the Environment in New South Wales,  Mr Beale,  and the Minister for Health,  Mr Jago,  both of whom have responsibilities in this area, had in fact done considerable studies on the river and they received the co-operation of business to a considerable degree. Millions of dollars have been spent in re-cycling water so that it does not go back into the river. This money has been spent at the Shell plant and other plants along the river, the fish are gradually coming back to the west of the Ryde Bridge. This is just one problem. I see another honourable member sitting opposite who has almost equally great problems in his electorate. 
The Opposition will co-operate with this committee. I make only one comment on the form of it. It is a comment I have made before about committees. I notice that paragraph 6 of the motion provides that the Prime Minister will nominate one of the Government members as  Chairman  of the Committee. Naturally we do not object to the Government side having a majority on this Committee, but we think that House committees and joint committees should appoint their own chairmen; they should not even appear to be appointed by the Executive. It may produce the same result, but it is a matter of form that this House and all of us in the House of Representatives and in the Senate ought to insist on. I would ask again that in bringing forward joint committees the procedure be followed of eliminating the provision contained in paragraph 6 of this motion and providing for the appointment of the  chairman  by the committee itself. 
I am glad to hear the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  say that he will accept these modifications. That, as it were, disposes of the substance of the matter. These modifications have come back from the Senate as a request to this House. The Opposition moved similar amendments in this House when the motion to set up this Committee was before us but at that point they were not accepted. In view of what the Treasurer has said I think I should mention 2 matters. Firstly, and this is not a matter to spend much time on, the Government still has a majority on the Committee. I can understand the honourable senators feeling that they needed that further representation, giving the Government a majority of one instead of a majority of 2. I do not think anything turns on this. The chairmanship is with a Govenment representative. 
However, on the question of the addition of prices in the public sector to the terms  of  reference of the Committee, while it is true that prices in the public sector in many respects are subject to scrutiny either in a State Parliament or in this Parliament, whether in respect of railway fares, the cost of postage, or other public prices, it is also true to say that for the purposes of a prices justification tribunal or a committee of this Parliament looking at the level of prices, the 2 are interrelated. There is a relationship and an influence both ways between the 2 kinds of prices. I think a substantial argument can be advanced that it is necessary that the Committee should at least have the power to consider prices in the public as well as the private sector. That is not looking at prices in the community in a one-eyed fashion. It is looking at them with both eyes open. The second point I make is that the public sector prices are liable to come before various Parliaments in various ways - some in regulations, some in statutes, some before State Parliaments and some before the Commonwealth Parliament and there is no concert necessarily among all the authorities which fix public prices. Therefore, there is a matter of substance involved here and it may be that this Committee will be able to give some advice from time to time which may prove to be useful. Whether the Government will accept it or not is a matter for the Government when it sees the recommendations of the Committee and the reasons for them. I do not put it beyond the bounds of possibility that the Committee, if it does have the power, may find that there are areas in the public sector which are out of line or which have an impact on prices in a way that is troubling it in respect of its recommendations on private prices. Therefore, I am very glad to hear the Treasurer accept the modifications requested by the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I claim to have been misrepresented in 2 disparate areas. The first relates to this debate. It was suggested in relation to the letters passing between me and the former Attorney-General that I was referring to the 3 gentlemen who it now appears were executed on 17th March. This was not so. We made inquiries about this matter and were informed by the Yugoslav Government that they had been destroyed in the invasion. We accepted that. In my correspondence when I was referring to the aide-memoire I was referring to the claim in the aide-memoire that terrorist groups were being trained in Australia. I went on to say that we were inquiring into that matter. 
Insofar as Australian citizens were concerned, that was being pursued through the Ambassador in Belgrade. The only one who had suffered any detriment apart from harassment - there was one who had been harassed and who had returned to Australia - was one who had been convicted and sentenced to 2 years' imprisonment. As appears from my letters, the Ambassador had been inquiring into this case and seeing that the man had legal representation. At the time I was writing, his case was subject to appeal. 1 do not resile one jot from what I did at that time. I did it honestly, after a full consideration of the facts before me and on the best advice I could get. 
I argued against a protest being made in that context at that time. It has now been revealed that the Yugoslav Government lied to us. It has been revealed that there was a trial and execution of 3 Australian citizens on 17th March. That is a different situation. I say no more. I am speaking only on a personal explanation. 
The second matter on which I claim to have been misrepresented was this rather old canard which is so inaccurate that I have not troubled to explain it before. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has repeated this and I do not want it to become the conventional wisdom. He said that I said in America that Australia was an insignificant country. That is totally false. I have a copy of the transcript of the remarks I made. They were not made in Washington. This arose out of a speech I gave in New York to the Australian-American Association. In the forefront of that speech, as anyone who takes the trouble to read it will see, I said that Australia in relation to other powers was a middle power. There was no question about that. The reference to insignificance occurred in another context altogether when I came to discuss the relationship between Australia, America and New Zealand in the ANZUS Treaty. 
I was stressing the enormous potential of Australia to become a powerful partner. In the same sentence I suggested that, although at present of relative insignificance as a partner, we had the potentiality to become enormously important to America. I had in mind that our expenditure on defence was less than 2 per cent of America's expenditure on defence and that our gross national product at that time was less than 4 per cent of America's gross national product. If my statement was an inaccurate statement I do not know what would be a correct use of the English language. If was perfectly accurate. People may not like if it is twisted into a statement that says Australia is insignificant. I did not say that. I realise, that in politics to use words Kipling used long ago, you learn to bear to hear the words you have spoken twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs) - The honourable gentleman has misrepresented me in saying that I misrepresented him. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)The honourable member claims to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr N. H. BOWEN (Parramatta)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I do not question what the Prime Minister has said is in the aide-memoire but, as- I explained, I accepted that portion of the aide-memoire and went on in my letter to deal with what else was in the aide-memoire, which was an allegation that terrorists were being trained in 
Australia. Various names were mentioned and various places were named. These were then referred to the Commonwealth Police for investigation. Those investigations were under way and it was those matters with which I was concerned in my letter. We actually accepted the statement that the men had been destroyed in the invasion. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the visit to Australia of the representatives of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, to the public entertainment of them in Sydney by one of the Prime Minister's senior Ministers and also to the entertainment of them in Parliament House yesterday. I refer also to the fact that Australia recognises the Government of South Vietnam and maintains diplomatic relations with that Government. I ask: Does the Prime Minister consider it proper for his Ministers publicly to entertain members of a group dedicated to the overthrow of a government with which we have formal and friendly relations? Further, the interest of the Department of Foreign Affairs in travel documents and the entry to Australia of such groups is well known and no doubt the Prime Minister will be aware of the nature of the travel documents held by this group. Will the Prime Minister inform the House whether this group travelled to Australia on North Vietnamese passports'? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his proposed visit to India early in June. By way of preface may I recall to the honourable gentleman the close and friendly relations established with India by the previous Government, particularly in our actions in organising recognition of Bangladesh following the India-Pakistan war, the talks held in Washington between the previous Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  and  Mrs Gandhi  and my own visit as Foreign Minister to New Delhi last year when I had talks with  Mrs Gandhi  and  Mr Swaran  Singh, the Indian Foreign Minister. Will the Prime Minister inform the House whether he realises that the way in which he has advanced his proposal for a wide regional association of Asian nations, including the People's Republic of China, with his specific statement that he would in this matter consult with Indonesia and Japan, has caused some offence in India? Will he assure the House that when he visits India he will endeavour to repair any damage he may have done to the excellent relations established by the previous Government? 
The Opposition agrees with the general purpose of this legislation. That general purpose is to give effect to 3 agreements reached between Australia and Indonesia regarding boundaries. These are mainly seabed boundaries. Each of these 3 agreements was negotiated by the previous Government, although the last of them was actually signed on 12th February 1973. Since we negotiated them, naturally we can hardly object to their implementation. The principal one of the 3 agreements is the one which relates to the boundary between Australia and Timor. I recall signing that agreement in Djakarta on 9th October last. I announced it in the House on 10th October. I go back simply to point out the importance of it. In the first place the agreement removed a potential source of disagreement between Australia and Indonesia. In the second place, it removed the uncertainly which prospecting countries had been facing regarding the limits of Australia's national authority over the seabed in that area. Also it secured for Australia by far the greater extent of the seabed area in which Australia had already granted exploration permits under our legislation, it did not secure the whole of the area for which exploration permits had been granted. In the give and take of negotiations some part of the area over which permits had been granted had to be given up in order to secure agreement. The Government of Western Australia &gt;vas consulted in advance and was in agreement with what was being negotiated. The holders of the exploration permits - or some of them - who were affected subsequently expressed satisfaction with the general outcome of the negotiations with Indonesia. But the consequence is that in order to implement agreement when arrived at some small portions of the Australian grid under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act had to be eliminated. The present Bill will carry out that necessary excision. 
May I add also that the Australian delegation which negotiated the agreements of 9th October 1963, and the subsequent agreement signed on 12th February which affected the boundary between Papua New Guinea and Indonesia, and which was ably led by the Solicitor-General,  Mr Ellicott,  included representatives of Papua New Guinea. Indeed, it was finally arranged that the latter agreement, which was between Indonesia and Australia, should be signed on behalf of Australia by  Mr Somare,  the Chief Minister for Papua New Guinea. It was the. aim of the previous Government to place the representatives of Papua New Guinea in close contact with their Indonesian counterparts. I recall discussions which I also had in Indonesia with ohe Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Adam  Malik, which led to his agreeing to establish an Indonesian consulate in Port Moresby. I just take the opportunity of expressing the hope that the present Government will continue to bring the officials of Papua New Guinea into contact with the officials of Indonesia because where people are used to meeting and talking with each other misunderstandings are much less likely to arise. I believe it is important that this policy should continue to be followed particularly before the independence of Papua New Guinea and while Australian officials are still present to assist the officials of both countries in their mutual dealings. 
To return to the provisions of the Bill, may I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  whether he has consulted with the governments of the States, particularly the Government of Western Australia. The Principal Act - the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967 - was put through this Parliament following an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States dated 16th October 1967 and each State passed mirror legislation. It seems that the States perhaps should now amend their mirror legislation. Part II paragraph 4 of the Agreement in summary states that each State government will submit to the Parliament of the State a Bill similar to the Bill set out in the schedule to the Agreement which was the principal Bill we finally put through. Paragraph 6 of Part II of the Agreement states that except in accordance with the agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments a government will not submit to its Parliament a Bill for an Act which would either amend or repeal an Act that is contemplated by the preceding provisions of this Act or in any material respect affect the scheme. That last preceding subclause does not apply to a Bill for an Act insofar as the effect of its provisions will be formal or transitional. 
The Bill before us amends the Principal Act. It certainly is not transitional and although I am in favour of its provisions I do not think I would describe them as entirely formal. I therefore ask the Minister whether he is following out the provisions of the agreement with the States. Whilst I would not expect resistance from the States, even from Western Australia seeing that we talked to representatives from that State before we negotiated the agreement, I believe that it is important that the Commonwealth and State government agreements should be scrupulously observed. 
I welcome also the announcement by the Minister in his second reading speech that the Government has been in contact with the Portuguese Government in relation to the sea bed boundary between Australia and Portuguese Timor and he expects that discussions will commence later this year. The significance of this is that there is a gap opposite the Portuguese section of Timor in the long boundary line between Indonesia and Australia. It is to be hoped that the Australian Government will be able to negotiate with the Portuguese Government a sea bed boundary which will give a sensible boundary line which we hope will form a continuous line with the Australian-Indonesian line which straddles that area. The Australian Labor Government however, has been following a policy of strong international condemnation of Portugal in matters in which we have no particularly direct interest with the result that Portugal has reacted somewhat sharply. For example the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, in relation to its mineral exploration rights in Portuguese Timor and Trans-Australia Airlines in regard to its operations to Timor, have been experiencing considerable difficulties. I express no view one way or the other on Portugal or its policies but I do say to the Government that Australian foreign policy is a much more complex field than the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or the present Government appears to recognise. In foreign policy Australia's interests are always one of the factors which have to be carefully weighed and carefully considered. Foreign policy, may I remind the Government, is not an area simply for personal grandstanding or for striking attitudes for short term domestic political advantage. 
This Bill combines 2 quite separate and distinct objectives. In Part II it sets out to assert a claim by the Commonwealth against the States to the territorial sea, the continental shelf and certain internal waters. In Part III, on the assumption that its claims in Part II are correct, it proceeds to lay down unilaterally a mining code covering reconnaissance authorities, exploration permits and production licences in respect of petroleum anywhere in the claimed area. Petroleum is defined in such a way as to cover hydrocarbons whether in a gaseous, liquid or solid state. While Part II is designed to be a vehicle for testing, if necessary in the courts, the conflicting claims to sovereignty, if the Commonwealth's claims are not upheld in full the, system in Part III will be thrown into utter confusion and will no doubt have to be withdrawn and redrafted. For example, if the decision is that the States have sovereignty over a 3-mile territorial sea it is obvious that any meaningful mining code off-shore could only be arrived at in consultation with the States. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in his second reading speech has in effect invited the States to make a legal challenge to Part II. Commonsense would seem lo dictate that Part III should not be in this Bill. In fact, even if the States made a legal challenge to Part II which was unsuccessful - that is, even if the Commonwealth claims which are set forth in Part II were proved to be correct - State co-operation in any really workable off-shore mining regime would be essential. Off-shore mining inevitably requires substantial on-shore installations and the use of port facilities, just to mention 2 items. It is, I suggest, a completely authoritarian and even a dictatorial way to proceed as the Government is doing in this Bill. The Opposition recognises that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech referred to the territorial claim and reference to it was also included in the Governor-General's Speech. 
We believe that this House should condemn the way in which the Government has sought to implement its announced policy. It is clearly a matter involving important State interests. It is, in regard to Part III - that is, the mining code off-shore - clearly a matter where State co-operation wm be needed. Yet, the Government is following a course which is becoming usual with it, of treating the States and their rights with complete disregard. It is with these matters in mind that I now move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'this House, while not declining to give the Bill a second reading and accepting that the question of sovereignty should be determined, (a) deplores the method adopted by the Government of proceeding without consultation with the States especially in relation to the code which is contained in Part III of the Bill, and (b) is of opinion that consultations with the States for a co-operative regime for controlling the exploitation of the resources and generous royalty distribution to the States should commence forthwith.'. 
Coming to the Bill itself, I shall address my remarks principally to Part II which deals with the Commonwealth's claim to sovereignty in this area. My colleague, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  who was Minister for National Development in the former Government and is now Opposition spokesman on mineral matters, will be speaking later in this debate and he will deal particularly with Part III which covers the mining regime. Part II of this Bill is very similar to a provision in an earlier Bill which was introduced in this House by the previous Government. That particular Bill was the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. It was debated in this House on 18th October last year but was not proceeded with at that time for reasons which I then stated in the House. The then Government was in the course of consulting with the States. I will not repeat what  1  said at that time. However, I remind the House that in the middle of last year a series of consultations took place between officials and Ministers of the Commonwealth and the States on this matter. It was discussed at the meeting of the Australian Minerals Council, which consists of the Mines Ministers of the States and the Minister for National Development of the Commonwealth. It was discussed also at a meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. 
On 10th August last year, with the then Minister for National Development I met in 
Canberra with ministerial representatives appointed by the Premiers of all States to discuss this whole matter. In the communique which was issued at the end of that meeting it was stated, among other things, that the Commonwealth emphasised the desirability of removing legal uncertainties as to where sovereignty lay. It was also stated that while this was recognised by the States they all took the view that a possible series of legal cases was not a satisfactory method. One proposal put forward was that a preferable method in the long term would be to determine the question by constitutional amendment. It was suggested that this might be one of the matters to be brought before the Constitutional Review Convention. In the communique was also recorded a series of suggestions put forward by the States. Those suggestions indicated that the States strongly favoured a joint examination of other ways of dealing with the question apart from that particular legislation to be followed by a test case. 
The communique recorded 3 points which I will recall to the memory of honourable members. Firstly, the states suggested a solution of the problem of off-shore minerals by means of complementary State and Commonwealth legislation. That is the immediate problem of mining. Secondly, they suggested a resolution of legal questions surrounding control of the territorial sea and the continental shelf by means of Commonwealth-State co-operation. That, of course, did not restrict the means which might be explored. One of those could be a test case and another could be by constitutional amendment. Thirdly, the communique suggested defining the internal waters of the States and the baseline from which the territorial sea is measured by means of consultation between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The Commonwealth was, of course, in no way bound by these suggestions. But it was then apparent that it would be well worth while to confer at Prime Minister and Premier level to explore the possibility of securing agreement on the way in which this question of sovereignty was to be determined and the way in which the off-shore mining code was to be determined. On 5th September last year the then Prime Minister wrote to the Premiers suggesting a summit meeting. Over a period of time favourable replies were received from all the State Premiers. Unfortunately elections supervened before that summit meeting could be held. Now we find the present Government bringing in this Bill in virtual disregard of any interest which the States have in the matter. This is something which this House should deplore, and I suggest that the House should support the amendment which I have moved. 
Of course, there are some people who take a simple view of this matter. They thank that if this Bill is passed and a case is then taken to the High Court to decide whether the Commonwealth claims in the Bill are correct this will clear up everything. This is obviously the view of those who brought forward this Bill, but I believe that this is far from the truth. The experience in the United States of America and in Canada is certainly against &lt;that view. In the United States it was decided, as far back as 1947 by the American Supreme Court, that the federal government there had sovereignty from the low water mark. That was over a quarter of a century ago, but since then there has been a continuous series of cases and the problems involved in off-shore mining are still unresolved in America. Huge amounts of money are held in escrow still awaiting court determination of various problems which continue to arise. In Canada in 1967 the Canadian Supreme Court in litigation between the Dominion Government and British Colombia held that the Dominion Government had sovereignty out from the low water mark, yet the problems have still continued and at present are unresolved in Canada. I understand that Canada recently sent someone to Australia to see how we had managed to solve these problems in the Federal system in our earlier off-shore legislation. 
I am strictly limited as to time. The Government has placed a time limit on this debate and there are many honourable members on this side of the House who wish to speak to this Bil!. I will have to confine my remarks and will give one example of the kind of problem which this Bill produces but does not solve. It is not the only problem; there are many, but this will serve as an example. I refer to the way in which this Bill deals with inland waters. Inland waters are those waters included in bays, gulfs, the estuaries of rivers, in ports and in harbours. At the present time, and since Federation, these have been treated as within the jurisdic- tion of the States. State laws run as to the control of small boats, as to maritime control and in other ways in these inland waters. This Bill, with some exceptions I shall mention in a moment, claims that the Commonwealth has sovereignty over all internal waters - that is, all bays, gulfs, estuaries, ports and harbours. This is provided for in clause 10 of the Bill. What is the present position? What is the extent of the exceptions which are provided for in clause 14 of this Bill? 
At the time of Federation in. 1901 the extent of bays was determined according to the common law, and under the common law there were various tests. One of these tests was that using the headlands of bays as a baseline the waters could be closed off. This was according to what the human sight could see. I think days on which there was a fog were disregarded. Another test was applied. They took the territorial sea, which was then a 3-mile limit, originally based on the length of a cannon shot, and between the heads of bays, if it were not more than 6 miles, the waters were closed off and everything inside was inland waters. This was the position in 1901. Those waters, of course, were within the jurisdiction of the States just as much as if they were dry land. Since then there have been developments in the law relating to inland waters. 
In 1928-9 a codification conference was held at The Hague. Australia indicated that it was prepared to go along with a 10-mile closing line for bays instead of the former 6- mile closing line. Subsequently we adopted a 10-mile closing line and the 'States took over the inland waters with a 10-mile closing line. There were international conferences on the laws of the sea in 1958 and the closing line, of 24 miles was arrived at by agreement between the nations of the world who signed the convention, including Australia. Following that convention we adopted a 24-mile closing line for inland waters - bays, gulfs, estuaries of rivers, ports and harbours. I recall that as Attorney-General in this House on 31st October 1967 I announced the adoption of this principle by the Commonwealth Government. The. Department of National Development then prepared maps which it supplied to the States in connection with off shore oil matters showing a 24-mile closing line across bays. These maps are currently in use. The States have been administering those inland waters on that basis. 
The (first point about the Bill is that it claims that these waters are under the sovereignty of the Commonwealth Government but it then it goes on to give an exception. It states in clause 14 that in effect the States will retain those waters which were inland waters of this type on l&amp;t January 1901 and so remain at the present time. That produces a number of difficulties. The first point is that on any view it seeks to take away from the States all inland waters in the bays which they presently administer and which are outside the 1901 limit. It goes back to whatever was the position in 1901, in spite of the fact that the Commonwealth Government as recently as 1967 has declared a 24-mile base line for bays, has announced it to the States, has supplied them with maps and the States have been administering inland waters within the 24-mile rule. But worse than that. It is extremely difficult to determine now what was the position of each individual bay, gulf, estuary of a river, port or harbour in 1901. 
Not only were the common rules somewhat debatable; we also lack records of where the low water mark was in 1901. In fact, low waiter mark varies from month to month and year to year. There are no records to show what was the low water mark in many of these instances in 1901. It would be necessary to have a case, perhaps in respect of many bays., ports and estuaries, in order to try to produce evidence of the position of low water mark in 1901. A river may have changed its course so that it now enters a bay at a different point. An estuary may be entirely different from what it was in 1901. All that is Commonwealth territory, and a State, although it is quite appropriate for it to be. part of the State, has that area taken away from it by this Bill. 
There is a further difficulty. Supposing that a court decides that the States are entitled to a 3-mile limit. I understand that constant reference is made to the fact that in the case of Bonser v. La Macchia the Chief Justice and  Mr Justice  Windeyer expressed the opinion obiter that the Commonwealth had sovereignty from low water mark. Again and again people fail to refer to the fact that other justices expressed a somewhat different view. For example,  Mr Justice  Kitto took a different view. Nobody ever troubles to refer to that fact. Suppose, for the sake of argument, as a possibility that the High Court decides that the States are entitled to a 3-mile limit. Com monwealth laws will be applying from low water mark across the 3-mile limit out on to the continental shelf. I hope and expect that the High Court will hold that the continental shelf is within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. Under this Bill the Commonwealth will still have sovereignty over all the odd bits and pieces around every bay, port, harbour and river estuary in Australia. This is a ridiculous situation and I seriously suggest to the Government that it is inappropriate to make this claim in respect of inland waters prior to determination of the base line for the territorial sea and continental shelf. 
Because of the short time left to me and the desire to give other speakers an opportunity to take part in this debate I have had to confine my remarks to that one example. It is typical of the way in which this Bill would operate in disregard of State rules and to produce a ridiculous situation. The Opposition will be denied an opportunity of moving amendments because the guillotine will come down if the speakers on the list take their full time. Other honourable members are trying to get their names on to the list. We will be denied an opportunity to move amendments to remedy such defects. In fact, it will require considerable thought to draft appropriate amendments. This Bill was introduced last Thursday. Now the Government is seeking to rush it through this House with limited debate. We can say only that by the time this measure reaches the Senate it is to be hoped that there will be time for such appropriate amendments and that in the Senate, if the Government has not had second thoughts on some of these matters, such as that relating to inland waters, time will be given for debate at least of possible amendments that introduce a sensible and rational scheme into the legislation. I commend the amendment which I have moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
The Opposition supports this Bill. It is consistent with views which were expressed by the former Attorney-General in another place on 8 September 1971. As the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has said, it is eliminating first of all section 30c, which makes it an offence for a person to advocate in speech or writing the overthrow of the Constitution, and which authorises deportation. It would apply to a person who was an Australian citizen by naturalisation, that is a citizen not born in Australia. It is desired to eliminate this section from the Crimes Act. There are some consequential provisions. The other substantial amendment effected relates to section 30l which creates the power for the Attorney-General to deport people who are members of an unlawful organisation. We support the repeal of these provisions. 
The Minister in his second reading speech referred to the fact that the provisions being repealed were inserted in the Act by the Bruce-Page Government. It is a fact that they were inserted in the Crimes Act in 1926, but I understand that they were inserted with the agreement of both sides of the House at that time. I do not think even that small residue of comment should be left residing on the Bruce-Page Government, which however did introduce these provisions. Since the time when they were introduced, so far as I am aware, no Australian citizen has in fact been deported under the provisions, and consequently we are not removing from the Crimes Act anything that has been creating difficulties in practice. It is quite clear that, whatever might have been the merit of these provisions in the 1920s when they were introduced, they are inconsistent with the view which we have of Australian citizenship today. We have the view that all Australian citizens, whether bom in Australia or coming here and becoming naturalised, should be treated in an evenhanded and equal way by the law. We do not agree with the distinction which it seems in the 1920s was desired to be drawn between those who are naturalised and those who are natural born citizens. 
But, as I say, my colleague the former Attorney-General in another place on 8 September 1971 announced that he proposed to make these amendments himself but he said that as it was not immediately important, because no deportations were taking place under these provisions, he would do it at a time when there was a general amendment of the Crimes Act involving other amendments as well which he was then contemplating. As he has pointed out, quite a lot of provisions of the Crimes Act apart from this question require amendment. For example, I think that the provisions relating to search without warrant need modernising and the provisions relating to the enforcement of penalty need amendment. The sections referring to offences against the Government were drafted in language more appropriate to the nineteenth century than to this century. I think that the provisions about disclosure of confidential information or classified information of government, which have sometimes been the subject of debate, need modernising for our current requirements. 
It was hoped that there would be a general amendment of the Crimes Act of which the present amendment could be part. I suppose the reason for this piecemeal amendment of the Act, just bringing one amendment forward at this time, is the fact that a good deal of concern and even fear has been created in the minds and the hearts of the migrant population by events of recent months. We know of the raids on various migrant homes, some arrests, public statements that were made and threats of deportation. The whole migrant community in Australia was placed in a position where fears were created amongst migrants that they might be deported, and might be deported to a country which perhaps did not have the protection of citizens, particularly in the case of political offences, which would be applicable here. It is really the action of the Government itself and its Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in another place which has made it necessary, I suggest, for this Bill to be brought in at the present time, giving the matter a degree nf urgency. However that does not lead us to oppose the Bill, rather to support it. We recognise that it is necessary, in view of the climate of fear which has arisen, that these fears should be allayed amongst Australian citizens. Whether they are natural born or naturalised, they ought not to be deported for any crimes against Australian law. They should be dealt with in Australia and according to our law. For those reasons the Opposition supports the present Bill. 
The Opposition welcomes this action on the part of the Government recognising the Montreal Convention to which the previous Government was a party and which was signed by that Government last year. This Bill provides for our accession to the Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of Civil Aviation. This is the fourth significant legislative step which Australia has taken to combat this modern problem, a problem which arises from time to time by reason of hijacking of aircraft, the planting of bombs on aircraft and other crimes and interference with the facilities of air travel. Air piracy and air hijacking have become a frightening feature of air travel and, although we have been reasonably fortunate in Australia, it is the fact that the free flight of people around the world, including Australians, is liable to be interfered with at any time by hijacking or by some crime taking place on an aircraft. It is important for the nations of the world to combine to ensure the safety of ordinary innocent passengers travelling by air around the world. This is connected in some degree with the general climate of the use of the weapon of terror for political purposes in various parts of the world. Hijacking represents one feature only of this problem. 
I was in attendance at the United Nations last year representing Australia not long after the terrorist activity at Munich and some hijacking, and on behalf of Australia I then made the point that even this convention was not enough. I said that the nations of the world had to combine to take steps to see that where there was terrorist activity, where there was hijacking, there should not in any country be sanctuary for those who had taken that violent action. In the past a series of steps have been taken. There was the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963 which made the aircraft on which a crime was committed Australian territory. At that point there was a difficulty in prosecuting for crimes which took place on aircraft as they got outside Australian geographical territory, and this Act made the aircraft Australian territory so that prosecutions could take place in respect of crimes committed on those aircraft. The second step was the Civil Aviation (Offenders on International Aircraft) Act 1970 which gave effect to the Tokyo Convention in the formulation of which Australia had quite a part. It did not create offences but provided that offenders against laws could be dealt with expeditiously. It made provision for giving powers to the commanders of aircraft to deal with people who committed crimes on aircraft, and gave them authority to deliver offenders to the authority of countries in which their aircraft landed and provided for the way in which such offenders should be placed in custody or dealt with. A further Bill was introduced in 1972 and became an Act. It approved the accession of Australia to the Hague Convention. 
So there was the Tokyo Convention, the Hague Convention and finally the Montreal Convention which is acceded to in the present Bill. The Hague Convention created the offence of hijacking and provided means by which people who were accused of that offence could be dealt with. The Montreal Convention provides that certain world-wide offences on aircraft become part of the law of a country if that country is prepared to accede to the convention and to make by legislation those offences part of its law. This is what the Bill now before the House does. Clause 7 sets out the terms of the Montreal Convention and renders a person who commits offences under it liable to Australian law. The Montreal Convention was something which was entered into by the previous Government and this Bill gives effect to it. We support and welcome the action of the Government in introducing this Bill into the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Opposition supports this Bill. At present, the age at which persons may marry without the consent of their parents is 21 years. This Bill will reduce it to 18 years of age. Of course, at present, people below the age of 21 years can marry with the consent of their parents. They can, of course, marry without the consent of their parents, but under the present law. they must go to a magistrate. If they make out a case then, notwithstanding the opposition of their parents, the magistrate may give his consent and they can marry. This Bill will remove the necessity for the magistrate's consent during that period between 18 years of age and 21 years of age. 
We believe that this change is in accordance with modern trends and the greater degree of education which young people have in our present modern community. Indeed the movement towards the reduction of the age of majority has been a steady one in a number of fields. For some time people under the age of 21 could not make a binding contract but now, in some States of the Commonwealth, people below the age of 21 but above the age of 18 can contract and be bound by their contracts. Certainly, for some time in the Australian Capital Territory, people under the age of 21 have been able to borrow on mortgage for home building. At one time, people could not make a will until they were 21 years of age except in the odd case where they happened to be on military service. This now has changed and in some States, people over the age of 18 can make a will. People over the age of 18 now may go and drink in a public bar and drive a motor car. At the age of 18, a person expects that he may be called on to take up arms and defend his country or undertake commitments of service which a nation has entered into in the interests of world peace. We have recently passed in this House a Bill to permit persons to vote at the age of 18. 
It may be said that the position concerning the age of marriage is in a different category from these other provisions. However, I think the trend has been such that it is proper at this time to reduce the age at which consent is required from 21 years to 18 years of age. We have the authority of the Latey report in England to which the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  referred in the remarks which he has just made. I should like to quote from paragraph 165 of that report which states: 
We have concluded on every ground that it is not wise to demand parental consent to marriage past the age of 18. We can only end by saying that this is not because we think parents should never discourage their children's marriages but because this is not the way to do it; not because we think well of marriages made in defiance of parents but because we think the law now contributes to the defiance, not because the family is too weak to use this weapon but because it is strong enough to do without it. 
I should perhaps say, because I believe there are some in the community who will regard this Bill perhaps as loosening some family or parental influences which they consider should be maintained, that the Latey Commission gave very careful consideration to these matters. In paragraphs 104 to 106 the Commission refers to those considerations and perhaps I could make brief reference to 2 matters. The report states: 
There have been 2 solid arguments put forward for keeping the requirement of parental consent up to 21. Both have a lot to be said for them. 
The first is that this requirement of the law does stop a great many unwise marriages from taking place. However as we have already shown, we believe that when this happens (and we have no doubt it often does) it is the force of parental persuasion that does the trick, not the stick which the sanction of the law puts into the parent's hand. 
The second, and a deeply disturbing one, is that removing the requirement of parental consent would have the effect of undermining parental authority still further; and even of encouraging bad parents to wash their hands of their children at the first signs of teenage trouble. We all firmly believe in the importance of the family and the last thing we would want to do is to pull the rug from under it; but after much thought we have come to the conclusion that this argument does not stand up. Good parents do not cease to be such when the sun rises on a 21st birthday; indeed their continuing care and concern is confidently gambled upon by the government when it requires a financial contribution to a child's further and further education even up to the age of 25. 
We believe that in this field at least the law is useless as a strengthener of family ties, and indeed by the friction it causes between the generations may well help to wear them through.  1 think most honourable members have experienced this type of case in their constituencies. They have seen the family strain which occurs when there is parental opposition and children have to go before a magistrate to get consent to marry in defiance of their parent's wishes. In many cases the parents then do not attend the marriage ceremony. One often has the feeling that if this requirement of going before a magistrate had not intervened the parents ultimately would have become reconciled and attended the marriage, especially if the matters that could properly have been put before a magistrate were sufficient to justify his approving the marriage. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has made clear, the Opposition is not opposing the passage of the Bill, notwithstanding the fact that it has some misgivings about the long-term implications of the Bill and of the method adopted of getting to local government bodies moneys which they so badly need. We on this side of the House appreciate the need for more funds to be made available for local government bodies to discharge their very important duties. We appreciate the closeness of local government to those issues which affect people so much in their daily living, often more than the national matters which are dealt with in this Parliament. 
The real question in this case is: By what method should moneys be allocated to local government? What was proposed before the last election by the Prime Minister has been proposed over a considerable period of time. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave an address to the Academy of Social Sciences at the Australian National University Seminar on Inter-Governmental Relations in Canberra on Monday, 8 November 1971. In a broad way he flagged this method of dealing with the allocation of finances, which is reflected in the Bill, when he said: 
A Labor Government will ask the Grants Commission to recommend the amount of Commonwealth assistance required to remove the inequalities in servicing our developing suburbs and regions. The Commonwealth would clearly be most readily impressed and persuaded by a joint application by local and semi-government bodies in a region. 
The Bill is in accordance with that statement made back in November 1971. 
On 25 October 1972, in an address to the annual conference of the Local Government Association of New South Wales in Canberra, the Prime Minister referred again to the way in which he, if elected, was proposing to get finance to the assistance of local government bodies. In his address on that occasion he said: 
Accordingly, a Labor Government will amend the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act to authorise the Commission to inquire into and report upon applications for Commonwealth grants by any semigovernment or local government authority or group of authorities, preferably on a regional or district basis. The Commission will determine the amount of Commonwealth help found necessary for that authority or group of authorities by reasonable effort to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other authorities or groups of authorities. 
As I read this Bill, it seeks to carry out that statement. 
The Prime Minister mentioned this again in his policy speech. The Governor-General's Speech on the opening of Parliament, which is reported in the Senate Hansard at page 10, reads in part as follows: 
My Government aims to make local government a genuine partner in the Federal system. To promote financial equality between regions the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act will be amended to authorise the Commission to inquire into and report upon applications made for grants for local government purposes. Discussions will be held with the States aimed at providing local government in each State with a voice and vote in the deliberations of the Loan Council. 
I mention these references, which were made over a period of time, because I find myself having considerable objections to the method adopted in this Bill. At the same time I must say that this issue was put very fully from time to time before the Australian people, and at the last election they voted the present Labor Government into power. We in the Opposition accept and face that position. We do so in relation to this Bill as in relation to other Bills. 
I do not agree that a government necessarily has a mandate to carry out every item which has been mentioned in a policy speech or in the course of an election campaign. I believe that there is a growing misunderstanding on this point. The fact is that, under our system, electors are compelled to choose between parties. They may disagree violently with some points of policy outlined in a policy speech or mentioned in the election campaign and yet, because of other major items which appeal to them or because of something they dislike in the policy of the other party, they vote in favour of that particular party and return it to power even though they disagree with items in the policy speech. No vote is taken on individual items in the policy speech. I suggest that the theory or the assumption that there is a mandate for everything mentioned in a policy speech is a false theory or a false assertion in terms of political science or in terms of our own constitutional conventions. 
Of course we have the occasional situation in which a particular policy that is mentioned in a policy speech or made an issue in an election campaign is so much in the forefront of things, is so vital an issue and the parties are so much in conflict about it, that the party which is elected can truly be said to have a mandate to carry out that policy which it espoused during the election campaign. The particular policy that is embodied in this Bill falls somewhat short of that last category. However, it is one of a number of important issues which were put before the Australian people and I think it is fair to say that the Australian people would be entitled to expect this Government to carry out its promise when elected to power. It is a matter of precise detail when one comes to consider what is actually contained in a Bill. The function of an opposition is at all times to see that what is in a Bill, as distinct from the broad general issue which might be debated in an election campaign, is proper, and to oppose anything in the Bill to which it takes exception. 
In the Committee stage the Opposition will be moving amendments designed to correct some things which we see in the Bill with which we disagree. The Committee stage will be the proper time to do this. If the Oppotion opposed this Bill, as those who disagree with some of the principles involved in it might be tempted to do, and if it took steps which resulted in this Bill not being able to be brought into effect, local government would be deprived of those funds which are provided for by the Bill. I believe that this would be contrary to the wishes of the Australian people as evidenced by their vote at the last election, following the way in which this matter was put to them. Accordingly, the Opposition does not propose to take any course which would lead to the defeat of this Bill. 
However, having said that, I feel I should draw the attention of the House to the implications which are inherent in the method adopted in this Bill. In the distribution of State and Commonwealth powers the area of local government is one, perhaps above all others, which our founding fathers retained for the States. They thought that the States were much closer to local matters. They thought that this area was not of a national character and so it was not given to the control of the Federal Parliament. The councils themselves are created by State laws. The New South Wales Local Government Act of 1919 governs in every detail what the councils do in that State. There is no Commonwealth power to legislate in respect of that. In the past funds to enable these councils to carry out their functions have been derived partly by enabling the councils themselves to strike rates - general rates, special rates for kerbing and guttering outside private dwellings and so on - and in addition the States have provided funds for the local councils. 
The difficulty which has arisen is that, with the rapidly expanding areas particularly in the metropolitan outer areas, it has been beyond the capacity of the councils to meet the needs. The well endowed councils in areas where services have been provided over  a  great number of years and which have become static are not in so much trouble. Indeed, even the poorer councils in the old city areas, where sewerage and other services are present, are not in so much trouble. But the rapidly expanding areas have produced pressures on councils for services, for amenities such as libraries, care centres and senior citizens homes, as well as for the normal ordinary functions of government which have been beyond their capacity to serve. This has led to a very great pressure from local government for further funds. This Bill now offers to those councils a further source of funds. Under the Bill councils may come to the Commonwealth direct. They bypass the States in doing so. It is true that under this Bill they are required to submit applications, and to do so on a regional basis, to  a  Grants Commission which this Bill establishes. But the Grants Commission provides only  a  filtering process. It looks at the application. It compares the performance of the council making the application with other councils and decides whether their services are of  a  standard equal to the services in other regions similar in character. It advises the Commonwealth Minister and then the Commonwealth Minister decides upon the allocation of funds. When he decides on the allocation of funds to the council he does so on the basis of  a  section 96 grant. 
This section when originally inserted in the Commonwealth Constitution provided that for the first 10 years of Federation or until Parliament otherwise provides the Commonwealth could give financial assistance to the States on such terms and conditions as might be provided. The obvious thrust of section 96 was that the Commonwealth could come to the help of the States for the first 10 years after Federation or until Parliament otherwise provided. It was never a section designed to enable the Commonwealth to take over State responsibilities and bypass the States. Of course gradually and with the course of decision we have reached the situation where we have a Bill under which application is made by councils not to the States but direct to the Commonwealth and the grant is made, technically, in the form of a section 96 grant to the States but only on condition that it go straight to the council. So the State is a letter box or perhaps is more accurately described as a post office. The State is a letter box to pass on the cheque under section 96 to the council. This of course was never the original intention of section 96. This is a device that has been used in various ways. It has been used with the Australian Universities Commission. But the difficulty about using this procedure in a case such as this is that it could develop in the course of time into a rigid and detailed control of what the councils do. 
If the councils want to establish a child care centre, a senior citizens centre, a swimming pool or a park, who decides it? Not the council. The council does not decide it. Not the States. The States do not decide it. The Commonwealth decides it. The Commonwealth Minister, on the advice of the Grants Commission, will now decide it. This of course means that the whole control of the lower tier of government is now potentially placed under the control of the Commonwealth Government by this Bill. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out, the opportunity arises for a political application of the discretion in this field so that those regions which it might be thought politically advantageous to favour might be found getting the advantage under this Bill from the Commonwealth Government. I am not suggesting that my friend, the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who a moment ago was sitting opposite me at the table, would engage in this kind of activity, but the Bill itself provides the potential for control of regions and councils from the centre in Canberra on a political basis. To that extent I suggest it needs very careful consideration. 
The Bill as originally introduced and as at present before the House did not provide in clause 17 for consultation with the States. This itself highlighted the direct bypassing of the States in this field. I suggest that it is important to consider amendment of this area. The Leader of the Opposition has indicated that in Committee he will be introducing amendments to clauses 17 and 18 to require the Minister to consult with the States, which after all under our Federal Constitution have ultimate responsibility for this matter. 
There are different views on how power should be distributed in Australia, and what may have been the distribution of powers in 1901 may not be the ideal distribution of powers in the minds of many of us in 1973. But the way to amend this is not by indirection. The way to amend this is not by stealth. The way to amend this is not by taking away from the States responsibility for tertiary education, by administering their primary and secondary schools through a centralised schools commission, by administering their hospitals by a centralised hospitals commission, by taking over their railways or by taking over control of the territorial sea from the low water mark at the top or by taking away responsibility for local government from them at the bottom, because there will be nothing left in the States but a shell if this is done. We have rationally to look at this matter. We have to decide what is our philosophy on the distribution of powers in 1973, not by indirection and not by this kind of Bill. We have to face up to this question and decide what is the best system. 
The Prime Minister in answer to a question in this House this week has said that he is in favour of a centralised, unitary system of Government. Are we? Are the Australian people in favour of that? They have never had an opportunity of saying, and the matter ought to be put to the people so that they can say what they think. It should not be decided by indirection. I suggest very seriously to members of this House, including the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, that it is important when distributing powers in a democracy to have checks and balances. I suggest that there are dangers for all of us, including my friends opposite, in . having simply one central source of power. I do not think Australian people want it. At least they ought to be able to have a chance to say what they want. It should not be done by indirection in a Bill of this type. 
However, having said that and given that warning as to the possible implications of this Bill, I come back to the point that I believe that councils and the Australian people are entitled to expect funds as a result of the promises that were given to them by the Government which they elected. I believe that local government needs this additional finance. I know certainly it does in my own area of Parramatta, Hornsby and Ryde, and I would not be a party to holding up the possibility of their getting this finance. I do not think they will get it quite as fast under this Bill as they might expect, but at least the 
Government elected by the people ought to be given the opportunity of carrying out its promise to provide it. In these circumstances the Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bill. 

 - Mr Speaker, having spoken to the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  before his statement was made I now seek leave to to make a statement. 
 The Opposition opposes this amendment. It goes some distance towards meeting the objection which the Opposition has to approvals being given under clause 17. We think it would be better that they should be given by regulation so that the Parliament may have an opportunity of scrutinising them and even, in the odd case where it was found to be necessary, disallowing the regulation. The old clause 17, which is affected by this amendment now moved by the Government, provided that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development could give approvals under 2 sub-clauses. The first sub-clause dealt with the approved regional organisations - these were the regions - and the second sub-clause said that the Ministermay, by instrument in writing, approve a local governing body that is the only local governing body established in a region' or 'in special circumstances, approve any other local governing body as a body that shall be deemed to be an approved regional organisation for the purposes of this Act. What the Government proposes now would remove to the area of approval by regulation the latter section, the individual council in the special circumstance. It would leave in clause 17 the approval of regions and bodies representing regions as approved regional organisations. It is true, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out, that yesterday the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  referred to the question of patronage as being a possibility. At page 2520 of Hansard the Leader of the Opposition referred to it in relation to individual municipal councils. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
For instance, an approved regional authority, while it is a body which represents or acts for a group, can . . . be a single municipal authority. 1 do not question that that was what the Leader of the Opposition was referring to but the whole intent and thrust of what he was saying was that there should be removed from the Bill all possibility of political patronage in the exercise of powers relating to councils. One of the difficulties about leaving in provision for the approval of bodies representing regions, as is now proposed in this amendment, is that there may be instances where there is not one but perhaps 2 or 3 councils. It is very difficult to say that the same objection does not apply, whether or not the Leader of the Opposition has specifically mentioned that. Therefore we would prefer that the power to approve bodies representing regions as regional associations also should be the subject of regulation. The Opposition will oppose this amendment. If it is passed and the Government's new clause 17 is inserted, our alternative proposal will not come before the Committee for consideration. If the Government's amendment is defeated we will move for the deletion of clause 17 with a view to moving at a later stage for a new clause 27 which will include all these areas and make them subject to regulation. 
I think I should conclude my remarks explaining our opposition to the current amendment by saying that the stand taken by the Opposition requesting that these approvals be effected by regulation and not simply by means of ministerial approval is not intended in any way to cast any reflection upon the probity of the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I would like to make that clear. We would not wish it to be thought that we were suggesting that the present Minister would be likely to exercise the power of approval of regional  associations,  which will remain if this amendment to clause 17 is carried, for political reasons or in response to particular pressures. In fact we do not envy him the task with which he will be confronted and the pressures which will be upon him in exercising the powers if this amendment is passed. However, to us it seems wrong in principle to legislate in such a way that a result is possible under which a Minister is to be placed in this position and to place it beyond the power of Parliament to scrutinise the exercise of this particular power. 
I move the following amendment: 
In sub-clause (3), after the word 'discretion', insert the words, 'after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned'. 
Clause 18 (1) provides: 
An approved regional organisation may apply in accordance with this section for the grant ... of financial assistance to a State for the purposes of the organisation or of all or any of the local governing bodies that the organisation is representing or on behalf of which the organisation is acting. 
Clause 18 (2) provides: 
An application under sub-section (1) shall be lodged with the Minister and a copy of the application shall be lodged with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned. 
Clause 18, in its present form - that is, without the amendment - then goes on to provide that the Minister may, in his discretion, refer to the Commission - that is, the Grants Commission - for inquiry and report an application lodged with him and various other matters. The amendment which I have moved seeks to insert in sub-clause (3) words which will make that sub-clause read: 
The Minister may, in his discretion, after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned, refer to the Commission for inquiry and report - 
an application lodged . . . and other matters. I understand that this amendment will not be opposed by the Government. At page 2520 of Hansard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is reported as saying: 
The Prime Minister in introducing this Bill used these words: 
The grouping of authorities into regions and the approval of regional organisations will be carried out in full consultation with the States. 
There is no reference in the Bill to consultation with the States. Quite clearly there must be consultation. This morning during question time I drew the attention of the Prime Minister to this deficiency in the Bill and he indicated that if I could provide a proposed amendment he would consider it. 
The Hansard report then reads as follows: 
1 move: 
In sub-clause (4) (b) after the word 'Minister', insert the words, 'and to the appropriate Minister of the State concerned'. 
This amendment relates to sub-clause (4) of clause 18 which provides that where the Minister refers an application to the Grants Commission then, firstly, the Commission: 
. shall afford the Treasurer, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the appropriate Minister of the State concerned an opportunity to make submissions to it . . . 
That part is all right, but the Bill then goes on to provide in sub-clause (4)(b): 
Subject to paragraph (a), the Commission shall inquire into the application or matter in such manner as it sees fit and report to the Minister on the application or matter. 
As the clause stands, this would require the Grants Commission to report to the Minister who is the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  on the application or matter and this report would not go to the appropriate State Minister in the State concerned. 
The Opposition takes the view that, again in the spirit of this recognition of the primary responsibility under the constitution of the States for local government matters, it is proper that, having been consulted in the matter of approving regions and referring applications to the Commission, they should at least be told what has happened. If these words are not inserted, the report will be made bythe Commission and the appropriate State Minister will not be told what has happened, unless and until of course the Federal Minister of State decides either by way of tabling the report and mentioning it in the House or by making some public statement at a Press conference or otherwise, to indicate what the result of the decision has been. The Opposition believes that it is proper and will present no difficulty for the Federal Government that, having been involved in the consultations in the matter, when the result comes and the report is made, at least the appropriate State Minister should be supplied with a copy of the decision. 
 Clause  27,  if one accepts the amendments which the Committee has carried to clause  17,  at least gives effect to the balance of what we had been seeking and what was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  That is to say, in respect of particular local governing bodies and in respect of local governing bodies where there were special reasons for approving them as regional organisations, it requires the matter to be done by regulation and not otherwise. Therefore our amendment, which has been circulated and which I was proposing to move if this amendment was defeated, would not fit with the Bill as it presently stands as amended by this Committee. So in opening my remarks I would say that I will be opposing on behalf of the Opposition the new clause  27  moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  but if it is defeated I will be moving our clause  27  in a slightly amended form. The first part of our proposed clause would read: 27 (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 17, the Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with the Act. . . . ' 
This would cover the whole of the organisations and give effect to the point I was making earlier. I will not go over that ground again beyond saying this, because of certain remarks that were made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren):  The difficulty that was highlighted by the Leader of the Opposition when he made his remarks about the approval by instrument in writing of regional organisations involves a matter of principle. It is true that he particularly stressed the individual councils and the individual bodies. The Prime Minister referred to that. But quite clearly the principle he was stating involves the difficulty of having this entirely outside the scrutiny of the Parliament. This applies equally to the case where there is not only one council but also when the region has  2  councils. It is, in effect, a matter of ridiculousness in practical politics to say that if a region has  2  councils or even  3  councils the principle is different. Therefore, the whole spirit and substance of what the Leader of the Opposition was saying would require that this Parliament should have an opportunity for scrutiny, simply by requiring that it be laid down by regulation which regions are approved. 
Therefore the Opposition will be opposing the amendment put forward by the Government. If it is carried we will go on to alter the Bill in respect of some consequential definitions. But if it is not carried the Opposition will be moving and pressing a form of regulation making which will embrace the approval of all regional organisations. 
This particular amendment would be different if the Committee had taken a different course earlier. In the light of what the Committee has decided so far in relation to other clauses of the Bill, this amendment is consequential only to the definition section. For that reason the Opposition will not be requiring a division. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
I move the following amendment: 
Omit paragraph (a) of sub-clause (2), substitute the following paragraph: 
community of interests within the Division, including economic, social and regional interests;'. 
I understand that the amendment will be accepted by the Government. 
Temporarily,  Mr Speaker.  My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Foreign Affairs News Release of 10 May 1973 stating that the Minister's private secretary,  Dr Wilenski  had had an interview with  Dr Kissinger  in Washington. I quote from the release. It states:  (Dr Wilenski)  ... had had the opportunity of putting Australian attitudes on a number of foreign affairs matters at a high level to the American administration. 1 ask; Firstly, was the Australian Ambassador to the United States present at this interview? 
Secondly, does the Foreign Minister hold the view that  Dr Wilenski  is better qualified to put Australian attitudes than our professional diplomats are? Thirdly, does he envisage for  Dr Wilenski  a  Dr Kissinger  type role in foreign affairs? Fourthly, was this interview used as a means of seeking an invitation to visit Washington? Finally, does he propose to disclose further details of the interview beyond those already released to the Press on 10 May? 
This now will be a cognate debate on these 3 Bills. The first Bill is the Australian Capital Territory Representation (House of Representatives) Bill which, if passed, will provide for an additional member for the Australian Capital Territory. It makes no extra provision for the Northern Territory. The second Bill is the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill which, if passed and if held to be legally valid, will provide for 2 territorial senators for the Australian Capital Terirtory and 2 territorial senators for the Northern Territory. The third Bill, the Representation Bill, is a machinery measure designed to prevent territorial senators from being counted when calculating the number of members of the House of Representatives under section 24 of the Constitution. Of course, if the second Bill, which provides for senators, is not passed the third Bill becomes unnecessary. 
I deal, firstly, with the Australian Capital Territory Representation (House of Representatives) Bill which provides for an additional member for the Australian Capital Territory. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. Clause 5 provides that the representation of the Territory in the House of Representatives shall be by 2 elected members. Clause 8 provides the way in which the Distribution Committee will be appointed and states that it shall consist of the Chief Electoral Officer, the Surveyor-General and another member. Clause 10 provides for the division of the Territory into 2 electoral divisions and provides also that in making that division the Distribution Committee shall give consideration to certain guidelines and to a quota from which the Committee shall not depart to a greater extent than one-tenth more or onetenth less. I shall come back to clause 10 at a later stage because it raises a slight difficulty in that it differs from those guidelines which apply to electorates generally and the Opposition believes that, so far as is practicable, there should be consistency between the guidelines which apply in the Australian Capital Territory and those which apply in other divisions throughout the Commonwealth of Australia. In clause 17 there is provision for filling casual vacancies. Clause 20 contains the general provision that at the time of each general election of members of the House of Representatives an election of members for the Territory is to be held. 
We on this side of the House already have agreed in principle to representation of the people of the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives. We have agreed to this in relation to the existing member, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  who is sitting in the House. We believe that the people of the Territory are entitled to have their voice heard in the House of Representatives. It was my Party which in 1959 widened the voting power of the member for the Territory and in 1966 introduced legislation which ensured that he had the right to vote on any matter coming before the House. In 1966 the number of electors enrolled in the Australian Capital Territory was 48,127, which the then Government con sidered justified his being a full member. Today there are 85,282 electors. If they are divided into 2 electorates, each of them will consist of 42,000 to 43,000 electors. This is rather small by Australian standards; but, as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the Territory has a rapidly growing population and it is estimated that by December 1975 enrolments will exceed 120,000. So, if the present Parliaments runs its course until that time, each division will have an enrolment of the order of 60,000. In these circumstances the Opposition believes that the Bill will give fair representation to the Territory. 
The Minister in his second reading speech made much of the argument that the pressures upon the local member are very great because the Australian Capital Territory has no mayor, no local council and no State politicians to look after the people. However, let me assure the Minister for the Capital Territory that, if a mayor or a local council or a local State member were in the Australian Capital Territory and they happened to be. of a different political persuasion from the Minister, it could prove to be a mixed blessing and he would find that he was subjected to additional pressures of a different kind about which, it seems, he has not even heard. It reaches its culmination when the local mayor or member ends by running for election against him. However, the present member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  does not appreciate how well off he is. The people of Canberra, it must be remembered, have a local advisory council, a National Capital Development Commission and a joint standing committee of the Federal Parliament, all concerned with their interests and a high proportion of the public servants who reside in the Australian Capital Territory have the ear of Ministers controlling policy and the expenditure of money. 
I can assure the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory that most of the people of Australia would not easily be persuaded that the paucity of their representation in the Parliament has led to the Australian Capital Territory being a deprived area compared with the rest of Australia. Nevertheless, we do believe that it is right that the increase in population should in the circumstances at present existing, carry the right to an additional representative. We take this view as a matter of principle. There may be some who will say that, notwithstanding the fact that my Party has put up first class candidates for the Territory, the scale of their rejection by the Territory means that we are presenting the Labor Government with an additional seat. As to whether that should affect our attitude or not, 1 make no comment. Perhaps I may be permitted to add that the Territory is a particularly knowledgeable and well educated electorate and contains those who are public servants and work with my friends and colleagues who now occupy the Government benches. I am sure they will come to know and appreciate them as well as we know and appreciate them and that the electorate is likely to see even more clearly in the future the fine quality of our candidates. 
I turn now to the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill which provides for 2 senators in the Australian Capital Territory and 2 senators in the Northern Territory. This Bill raises quite different considerations. It raises questions of principle, of great political and legal complexity and involves far reaching consequences. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  was not exaggerating when he said in his second reading speech that this Bill, if passed, would be an historic Bill. It certainly would be. It would not simply provide representatives of the Territory in the Senate, as section 122 of the Constitution contemplates; it would also provide territorial senators who, by reason of the powers conferred on them by this Bill, would be taken into account in constituting a quorum in the Senate and in voting as to whether a resolution was carried by a majority of votes in the Senate. In this respect, that substantially affects Part II of the Constitution which constitutes the Senate of the Parliament. 
Our Constitution is not merely an Act of Parliament - a basic law. It is also a compact between the Commonwealth and the States. It is a compact in which legislative powers are distributed between the Commonwealth and the States and in this compact the Senate is established as the States' House. Each State, regardless of size and population, has an equal number of senators. At present, of course, they have 10 each. The Constitution compact itself provides in section 128 for the means by which that compact is to be changed and it is part of the compact that alterations must have the approval not only of the Parliament and later of a majority of the people but also of a majority of the people in a majority of the States. 
It is a nice legal question whether the power given by section 122 of the Constitution to give representation to Territories will allow of the appointment of a person who actually becomes a voting senator and one who is counted in making a quorum. What is said in section 122 is that representation may be allowed to the extent and on the terms the Parliament thinks fit. Was this intended to refer rather to the extent of representation - for example, the number of representatives - and the terms of representation in the sense in which one refers to the manner of their appointment or election or is it without express mention, a way of altering earlier sections in Part II of the Constitution? I think particularly of sections 22 and 23, if not 24. In fact, if the present Bill is valid, it would rest within the power of this Parliament not only to allow separate Senate representation for the various islands such as Norfolk Island, Christmas Island and Cocos (Keeling) Island - maybe we would not do that, but maybe we could - but it would also permit us to provide that the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory were entitled to have 3 senators or 5 senators or 10 senators each, according to what was considered at the time to be a fair representation according to the position of the Territory. It might be thought that they ought to be put on an equal footing with the States and be given 10 each or an odd number which, of course, would alter the balance of power in the Senate. 
There is of course no constitutional bar to a change in the method of election to the Senate. A government which gained control of the Senate could, as has been done before, change the method of electing senators. It could change it from the present system of proportional representation to some other system. But even while the system of proportional representation remains in force as the way of voting for the Senate, this Bill could have the effect of passing the determination of the balance of power in the Senate to the Territories. One feature of this Bill, as I said, is that while Territory senators are to be counted for forming a quorum and while they have a vote, so that they are in this sense full senators, they are still to have a term which coincides not with that of other senators - 6 years  - but a term which coincides with that of members of the lower House. They are to run for election always at elections held for the House of Representatives and clearly only on House of Representatives issues. I am not opposed in principle to the alteration of the terms for which senators are elected. I would not oppose a proposal such as was put forward in the report of the Joint Standing Committee on the Constitution in 1959 to bring the Senate elections into line with the House of Representatives elections by making senators have, say, 2 consecutive Representatives terms as their term of office. There are considerable difficulties in bringing such a proposal into effect because of the phasing out of senators with fixed terms who retire at intervals and the proposals put forward in the Committee report of 1959 in fact is unworkable. However, while I was Attorney-General, I sought to devise a scheme by which this could be done and I presented a paper in which, with some variation of what had been proposed in 1959 by the Committee, a scheme was propounded which would make it possible for senators to be elected for about 6 years - 2 successive House of Representatives terms - still being elected in succession, overlapping each other, and so that always, the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives would be synchronised. 
But what has happened with this Bill is not that the terms of senators are going to be altered but only that the terms of territorial senators are going to correspond with those of the House of Representatives. They are going to hold office for only 3 years or less, as do members of the House of Representatives. Their election will be at a House of Representatives election in which the issues are different. As I have said, they could control the balance of power. This is not the right way to give representation in the Senate to the Territories. If this Bill is passed and the Government gains control of both Houses of this Parliament there will be nothing to prevent the Government from increasing the number of what might be called second class or short term senators. They hold office while the lower House continues and their number could be increased simply by passing a law through both Houses. 
This presents special problems. Taking the last 3 House of Representatives election figures for the Australian Capital Territory as a basis it is clear that, on one occasion cer tainly and on the last 2 occasions probably, on distribution of preferences they would have produced 2 Senate representatives from one side of the House. At present there is no representation of the Territories in the Senate. It is suggested that this method of appointing 2 senators for the short term coming after the House of Representatives election and having 2 senators possibly carrying the balance of power in the States chamber should not be put into effect before the States have had an opportunity, as the Constitution really contemplates, of passing their opinion on the matter. 
At present the Australian Capital Territory has 85,282 electors; the Northern Territory has 31,894 electors. It is impossible to suggest that these small numbers of electors are such that it is a matter of urgency that each set of people should have representation of 2 senators. Many would consider that 2 senators for the Northern Territory, for nearly 32,000 people, or one senator for between 15,000 and 16,000 people, is excessive. It is clearly a matter which is not urgent and should be much more carefully considered. It is a matter in which the States as parties to the federal compact have a vital interest. A constitutional conference of the Commonwealth and the States is fixed for September next. Clearly this matter should be deferred and brought before that conference. I believe that it would be ridiculous to suggest that this Bill is so urgent that it must go through this Parliament before September. If it is pressed, it can lead one only to suspect that it is part of the plan which can now be seen to be emerging in such Bills as the Grants Commission Bill and the earlier Electoral Bill to take rights and powers away from the States, often by indirect means, and to introduce measures designed to alter the electoral system and to secure maintenance of the present Government in office for an indefinite period. The Opposition will oppose this Bill. 
I come now to the third of the 3 Bills - the Representation Bill. I repeat that if the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill is defeated, this Bill becomes unnecessary. However, I believe I should make some remarks about it because it presents a strange problem. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said in his second reading speech: 
The Government's legal advice is that section 24 of the Constitution does not have application in relation to senators who may, be provided for a territory under the provisions of section 122 of the Constitution. In other words, the requirement contained in section 24 for the number of members of the House of Representatives to be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators does not relate to territory members or senators provided under section 122 of the Constitution. Furthermore, 'the people of the Commonwealth' in the context of section 24 aTe the people of the States. 
In other words, he thinks that the people of the Territories are not people of the Commonwealth. Leaving on one side whether the people of the Australian Capital Territory would be rather surprised to find that they were not people of the Commonwealth, the question arises as to the true character of these senators. Section 24 of the Constitution relates to the number of members of the House of Representatives. It states:  - and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of the senators. 
It depends what the word 'senators' means in the Constitution, whether it means the men who will be appointed under this legislation will be senators or not. Nothing which can be put in an Act of this Parliament will change the wording of the Constitution. The Constitution can be changed only by amending it. The question under the Constitution is: Are they senators or not? Section 22 of the Constitution provides: 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides, the presence of at least one-third of the whole number of the senators shall be necessary to constitute a meeting of the Senate for the exercise of its powers. 
It provides that one-third of the senators present shall constitute a quorum. This Bill provides that territorial senators are to be senators for the purposes of section 22 of the Constitution but the words do not vary in the Constitution. They remain the same. If a senator according to section 22 can constitute a quorum because be is a senator within the meaning of the Constitution he remains a senator under section 23 or section 24. The same word does not change its meaning from section to section. Section 23 of the Constitution provides, in part: 
Questions arising in the Senate shall be determined by a majority of votes, and each senator shall have one vote. 
Who are the senators? The Constitution has a meaning and it does not change. Does it include territorial senators? If not, this Bill cannot make it do so. If it does, and they  aTe  senators, they can vote and be counted in the majority. Either they are senators for the purpose of a quorum and senators for the purpose of voting in the majority - in which case they must be senators for the purpose of section 24 of the Constitution - or they are not senators for the purpose of any section. The strange thing is that the machinery for setting the quota for the House of Representatives - which is covered by this Bill - carries out the provisions of this Bill. 
This Bill provides that in fixing the quota for the House of Representatives Bill the territorial senators are to be disregarded. But unfortunately, if they are senators, if they can vote and can be part of a quorum, you cannot by excluding them from the machinery make nonsense of the Constitution. The Constitution can be changed only by amending it. I flag this problem for the Minister. I have read that he has had legal advice, and I hesitate. I do no more than raise the problem. I am not arguing because I do not like to differ with opinions which have not been made available to me. The Minister has not given us the benefit of the written advice - I presume that it is written - which is available to him and has led him to think that they can be senators for one section of the Constitution and not for another. 
I will be most interested to see the opinion. This is a problem which confronts us in this House in relation to the Representation Bill. Taking the Bills together, as I said before, my Party is very conscious of the need for adequate representation of both Territories in the House. It has taken forward steps in the past to make this representation effective. It has widened the voting power of the members for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives. It is conscious of that and it will not oppose the addition of a member of the House of Representatives from the Australian Capital Territory. We will agree to having one member added and will take our chances on what the answer of the electorate will be. But as a matter of principle we object to the creation of this curious animal, the territorial senator, who is a senator for the purposes of a quorum, a senator for the purposes of voting but not a senator for the purpose of determining the quota for the House of Representatives. We oppose that Bill and the third Bill. 
I move the following amendment: 
In sub-clause (2), omit the words 'one-tenth more or one-tenth less', substitute the words 'one-fifth more or one-fifth less'. 
In explanation, perhaps I should say that the 2 amendments which have been put forward will bring the guidelines and directions to be given by the legislation to the distribution commissioners into conformity with the guidelines and directions which apply in respect of every other electorate in Australia. The Opposition does not think that there should be a change in substance in the Territory or that in some way it should be treated differently from other electorates by the dis tribution commissioners. That was the purpose of the first amendment I moved. 
The second amendment relates to the margin. This has been a matter of debate and I will not make a long speech about the margin to be allowed in electorates. The amendment is designed to bring this margin into conformity, as a matter of consistency, with the permissible margin the commissioners have in relation to every other electorate in Australia. That is not to say that the commissioners will use the margin. They do not use it unless they need to. It is quite possible that, if the population of the Australian Capital Territory remains static - which is unlikely - or grows very rapidly in the 2 divisions equally, no use of this margin will be required. But if, for example, with the new suburbs of Tuggeranong in the south it is seen by the commissioners on the trends of population that there will be a very large increase in the southern division, making it very much larger than the other division in two or three years time, they will require a tolerance when they fix the 2 divisions so that with the passage of time the position will be brought closer to one vote one value. 
Honourable members will recall that in the United States of America, where it was held that the constitution required one vote one value, it has been conceded that 10 per cent is not necessarily enough to achieve it. The commissioners may need more than 10 per cent to achieve one vote one value at the time of an election, depending on the capacity of growth. In fact, on the construction of the constitution in America, 15 per cent and more is permitted. But that is not to say that this would be used. It would be a matter for the commissioners to do what was proper, taking the trends into account. The Opposition thinks that, having that in mind and having in mind the need for consistency and not to make a special case of the Australian Capital Territory, this amendment should be made to the Bill. 
 The Acts Interpretation Bill seeks to make a formal amendment to the principal Act because  of  a change in the description of magistrates in Tasmania. It is a machinery type  of  provision and the Opposition does not object to it. The Bill also seeks to change the name of the Commonwealth  of  Australia Gazette' to the 'Australian Government Gazette'. The Opposition also does not object to that. That change will require some consequential amendments. Indeed, the Evidence Bill - the other Bill which is being debated cognately - seeks to add to the principal Act a provision for proof on production of the Australian Government Gazette'. The Opposition thinks that this consequential amendment is necessary. The only other thing I wish to do in dealing with this matter is inquire of the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  whether he is yet able to tell us when the Government will introduce in the Parliament legislation relating to the law of evidence of the Australian Capital Territory, which may prove to be a model or a first prototype for a general evidence Act for the Commonwealth. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The first concern that I wish to express, in debating the statement on foreign policy made last Thursday by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  is that far too large a proportion of it was couched in vague generalities. The Prime Minister spoke of his intention of developing more constructive, flexible and progressive approaches. He says that an approach to foreign policy which is solely an extension of defence policy is bad and he will avoid that. The fact that this has never been anyone's approach in the past does not seem to trouble him. He says that the Government's policy rests on the belief that Australia is well placed to make a serious contribution to the preservation of peace and the promotion of the welfare of our neighbours while at the same time and by the same path promoting her own interests and security. There are pages of this stuff. It is like saying that our policy is to make everybody healthy, wealthy and wise. One could hardly disagree with the sentiment but it is a sentiment, not a policy. 
In a foreign policy statement in this House honourable members are entitled to hear specific policies and courses of action which the Government has followed and intends to follow. It is the right of the Australian people to hear this in a major foreign policy statement. We are entitled to be told the objectives and the means to be adopted to attain those objectives in our relations with other countries. This has been the practice in the past. I regret to say that this statement falls far short in this respect. These particular sections of it could have been written by any recent, competent university graduate who had studied political science but who had had no experience whatever of foreign policy. On a few occasions the Prime Minister condescended to give us some detail. One such occasion was in his reference to the recognition of the People's Republic of China. This is a step with which most Australians agree. But a large body of Australians is in disagreement with the way in which the Labor Government has treated our longstanding friend and valued trading partner, Taiwan. 
Many Australians are disturbed at the concern, approaching dismay, which has been stirred in many of the capitals of South East Asia. In Bangkok, Singapore, Djakarta and to a lesser extent perhaps in Kuala Lumpur and Manila there has arisen a questioning and an uncertainty about Australia's future intentions. The reasons for this concern include not only the headlong nature of the rush to reach Peking but also the recognition of Hanoi while the ink on the agreement for a cease-fire was hardly dry. It includes also the invitation to the Vietcong to visit Australia and their entertainment here by senior members of the Government. They are, after all, a body dedicated to the overthrow of a friendly government of a country with which we have diplomatic relations and beside whose people our men have recently been fighting. The eagerness to carry Australia into the so-called Third World, so often expressed if somewhat moderated in the Prime Minister's statement, has added to the uncertainty of our neighbours about Australia. 
The Prime Minister gave less than due credit to the progress which the previous Government had initiated and advanced towards normalisation of relations with China and the extent to which the previous Government had factually recognised China in its dealings. Trade was substantial. Last year we had substantial orders for sugar, steel, wheat and other products. We had an order for $50m for wheat. The movement of persons was free  - at all events from our end. Perhaps  Mr Francis  James might have some reservations. But Australia and the People's Republic of China both had embassies in capitals such as Paris, Cairo and Belgrade. We both had missions at United Nations. In New York in October last year I had a useful talk with the leader of the Chinese Mission to the United Nations who was then serving his term as  Chairman  of the Security Council. China subsequently supported us in our election to the Security Council. I believe that had the Liberal-Country Party been returned to government we would have recognised the People's Republic of China in a relatively short time - perhaps within a year. But we had not given away our negotiating position in advance, as the Prime Minister did during his visit to Peking. 
The Prime Minister has said in this House that the formula he secured with China was the same as the Canadian formula. This is not so. Canada simply noted China's position regarding Taiwan; Australia was required to acknowledge it. There is more than a semantic difference between noting a claim and acknowledging it. We would have negotiated better terms regarding Taiwan, as Japan did, and we would have acted in consultation with our South East Asian neighbours, with whom we had been discussing the matter for some time. The blow to our trade with Taiwan has been substantial. There are difficulties in obtaining visas, difficulties in trading, and trade has been reduced. Any increase in our trade with the People's Republic of China will, in turn, have to be substantial if it is even to make good the ground which has been lost. As I have said, I believe that most Australians consider that the formal recognition of the People's Republic of China was right. But most Australians also believe that the Labor Government has treated our friend and trading partner - Taiwan - in a shabby fashion. The approach of the previous Government was cautious but at least it had integrity and consistency. There is an air of selfcongratulation and exaggeration in the Prime Minister's remarks on this subject. 
One policy presented with a flourish and some air of novelty is what the Prime Minister describes as a 'resources policy'. It is, of course, true that a country must make a careful and continuing assessment of its natural resources and its own needs now and for the future. Also it must assess the relationship of its resources to those of other countries. To a considerable extent this work had been done under the previous Government. A draft White Paper had been prepared. It was not finalised or laid upon the table of this House for a number of reasons which need not be expounded here. This is an extremely complex field where projections of the extent and significance of resources for any length of time ahead are constantly falsified by fresh discoveries and by advances in technology. The previous Government had also made particular studies in regard to resources and resources policy. For example, the study of resources was one of the subjects which occupied the attention of the joint AustraliaJapan Ministerial Committee which met in Canberra last year. The then Minister for National Development joined the  Deputy  Prime Minister and myself in these discussions with the 5 Japanese Ministers who visited Australia. As was pointed out in the communique, a joint study by officials of both countries in relation to resources policy was decided upon. 
But apart from his overlooking of the historical facts insofar as they might be favourable to the previous Government - after all, I suppose this is politics - the Prime Minister advanced as a new idea the use of natural resources as a weapon of international political influence. Apparently we are in for a period of resources diplomacy. I read a suggestion in the Press this morning that the successful renegotiation of iron ore contracts with the Japanese, to which the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  contributed, is an illustration of resources diplomacy. Of course, this is nonsense. This re-negotiation was purely a commercial exercise, as the Minister for Minerals and Energy himself has been at pains to point out. The Minister also stated flatly that the transaction with the Japanese was not an exercise in resources diplomacy. I congratulate the Minister on the success of his contribution to the negotiations and also on his frankness. A true example of resources diplomacy would rather be the action of the People's Republic of China in assigning political reasons for its refusal to purchase wheat from Australia during 1971. This was resources diplomacy operating in reverse. It was done to bring political pressure on Australia at a time when China was seeking admission to the United Nations. 
The deliberate use of the economic weapon in iinternational politics can be a hazardous exercise. Of course, our growing economic strength and standing in international affairs under the previous Government contributed to the importance of our voice in international affairs. We were invited to join the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. We became a member of the Committee of Twenty dealing with international monetary policy, and so on. But the proposal to mix economics with international politics is a different proposition. After all, the world is far from short of many of the minerals of which we have a supply. Japan, for example, regards us as an attractive source and supplier of its iron ore requirements and it does so for 3 reasons. First, our ore is of high quality. Secondly, the distance between us is relatively short. Thirdly, we have or at least until now had, been regarded as a politically stable country. If the offering or withholding of iron ore is to be dictated on political and not on economic grounds the third element which has contributed to our position favourably - that is, confidence in our political responsibility - will disappear. We will cease to be an attractive or reliable source and prudence will then inevitably dictate that Japan increase its endeavours to find other sources of supply. There are many possible suppliers. Japan might look more to Brazil, to India, to Russia, to China. One result may be that by mixing politics with economics we finish up damaging our industries, discouraging investment of capital and effort, putting men out of work and slowing down our development. Perhaps the Prime Minister does not really mean us to use resources diplomacy in any practical way. Perhaps it is just a matter of giving a new trendy, high sounding name to what we already do and, in effect, is merely the expression of a hope that he personally can do it a little better. 
I come now to some of the particular matters referred to by the Prime Minister in his statement. The first of these is his series of references to the United States. One can only confess to listening to him with a growing feeling of disbelief that what he said truly represented his own views, let alone the views of the Australian Labor Party. Certainly his remarks ran counter to known and declared Labor policy and were the opposite of many previous statements. The Prime Minister has been a bitter critic of previous Prime Ministers who have praised American Presidents. Now, is his statement at least, if not elsewhere, he almost leads the field. Why? Is he sincere or is he opportunist? Certainly his Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  his Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and his Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  have taken quite a different view, and have not hesitated to express it in the most insulting terms. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has also offered a laboured insult to America, saying only 3 things are certain - death, taxes and the devaluation of the American dollar. The Prime Minister's own real real views were revealed in the answers to questions this week in the House. First I asked him in this House about  Dr Wilenski's  meeting with  Dr Kissenger.  He simply could not resist the temptation to intrude into his reply a slighting reference to  Mr Haldeman  and  Mr Ehrlichman.  Again, yesterday in answer to a question in the House he made remarks advising that the  President  would not be in such a parlous condition, as he put it, if only he held Press conferences in Washington like the Australian Prime Minister holds in Australia. These remarks can only be interpreted as a gratuitous insult to the  President  and Administration of the United States. 
In his statement the Prime Minister spoke of the United States as 'our great ally'. His practice in the past has been to ridicule 
Liberal-Country Party Ministers who used such phrases. I do not think there is a member sitting in the House, excluding the new members, who will not recall attempts made to turn such phrases as 'our great and powerful friend* into terms of ridicule and contempt. Why has the Prime Minister changed? Is he sincere? Has he suddenly left his comrades? Then he spoke of ANZUS. He said: 
The maintenance of our alliance with the United States under ANZUS remains most important for our security. 
It could be a Liberal Minister speaking. Every member of this House knows it is not Labor policy. Why did he say it? Every member knows that the Australian Labor Party changed its policy on ANZUS at its conference in Launceston. Prior to that Conference it was stated in the Labor Party platform that ANZUS was crucial. At that conference this reference was removed from the platform. At that Conference bitter criticism was made of ANZUS because it was a military alliance with the United States. Following a plea by the Prime Minister to the Conference that he did not want an intolerable burden placed upon him to carry into an election, a rather bland resolution was passed. A statement was left in the platform about making ANZUS an instrument for justice and peace and political, social and economic advancement in the Pacific area. That is the actual policy of the Labor Government. According to Labor's policy at the present time ANZUS, as we know it, is to be converted into a kind of human rights convention. The military heart is to be surgically removed. 

 Mr Bill Hartley, a member of the ALP Federal Executive, was so moved by the Prime Minister's statement in this House regarding the maintenance of ANZUS that he quickly moved to correct any wrong impression which may have been created by the Prime Minister. He was interviewed on Channel 9's current affairs program 'Federal File' last weekend. The commentator introduced  Mr Hartley  after referring to the forthcoming ALP Conference in July, saying: 
Socialist Left spokesman Bill Hartley says the socialist Left now has the numbers to start breaking our American Alliance. 

 Mr Bill Hartley during the interview said: 
I think the Socialist Left will eventually be success ful In getting a non-aligned policy and that would, of course, mean the end of ANZUS. 
I recall a speech given to the AustralianAmerican Association last year by the then Labor spokesman for Foreign Affairs, now the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison),  who is sitting at the table. He will recall that in that speech he bitterly attacked ANZUS.  His  speech was completely the opposite of one which I made at that time in Sydney arguing the very proposition now put by the Prime Minister that ANZUS should be maintained. Take the question of United States bases in Australia. For years, the Prime Minister and his Party have been bitter critics of these bases. Now he refers to them in his statement in terms which broadly correspond with the policy of the previous LiberalCountry Party Government, except for some slight reservations about the North-West Cape signals station. One almost wonders whether the Prime Minister may not be feeling so insecure against the pressure of the left wing of his Party that he is feeling his way towards the possibility of a national coalition in case some crisis should occur within his own Party. Only time will tell. 
Another feature of the Government's policy is its eagerness to seek for Australia observer status at the next non-aligned conference in Algiers later this year under the sponsorship of Yugoslavia. There have been 3 non-aligned heads of state and government conferences. The first was in Belgrade in September 1961, then at Cairo in October 1964 and the next at Lusaka in Zambia in 1970. There was also a conference of Foreign Ministers of nonaligned countries in Georgetown, Guyana, in August 1972. 
Yugoslavia, which had its own reasons arising from the situation in Europe, was one of the main sponsors of the first conference, to which it was host in Belgrade. It has continued to be one of the moving forces and the conference in Zambia probably could not have taken place without its active support. Apart from the question which inevitably arises in view of the recent difficulties with Yugoslavia over the incident of the execution of 3 Australian citizens in that country, about having that country as our sponsor, 2 other questions arise. The first is whether there is not an irreconcilable inconsistency between our attendance at such a conference as an observer on the one hand and on the other hand our maintenance of ANZUS and the Five Power Defence Arrangements and the continuance of American bases in Australia, including the North West Cape signal station. The Prime Minister has sought to gloss over this inconsistency. But even  Mr Bill  Hartley, as he made clear on his weekend television interview, could spot the inconsistency at once. 
The attempt by the Prime Minister to gain observer status at the non-aligned conference suggests that  Mr Hartley's  assessment of the general direction in which Australia's foreign policy is moving and will continue to move may be a more frank and realistic assessment on this particular issue. The second question relates to our relations with our northern neighbours. The Prime Minister's actions and statements again evidences his lack of understanding or concern for the sensitivities of those countries. The non-aligned conference has shown little regard for the interests of South East Asian countries. It will be remembered that the delegates of Malaysia, Indonesia and Laos walked out of the Georgetown Conference of August 1972. Singapore, whilst raising objections, did not walk out. These considerations suggest that before conducting this exercise with his guest  Mr Bijedec,  the Prime Minister might have been well advised to have conulted at least with Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia. If he did so, he has made no mention of it. 
The Prime Minister in his statement has gone a little soft on his plan for a greater Asian regional association. He said in his statement:   . it will be a slow and delicate growth. 
At the Summer School of The Australian Institute of Political Science held in January of this year the Prime Minister put this idea forward with some panache. The association was to include the Peoples Republic of China. He announced that he would consult with Indonesia and Japan. The Prime Minister appeared to be about to enter upon the scene and solve the outstanding problems of the region. Others have put forward similar schemes regarding regional associations and areas of neutrality in Asia - not least Soviet Russia and India. Even in my speech to the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of Australia in 1971, I stressed the importance of regional associations and cooperation in this area. But the Prime Minister's way of handling his plan has reflected this same lack of understanding of Asian thinking and Asian sensitivities, which is disturbing when found in an Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
In mentioning that he would consult with Indonesia and Japan he failed to take account of India's views regarding its role in Asia, or, indeed, of the fact that it is not so long since India was defending itself against troops of the People's Republic of China. 
When visiting Indonesia to discuss his plan he followed his usual practice of first announcing his views through the Press and he failed to take account of the remembrance which Indonesians have of Peking's relationship to the bloody events of 1965 in their country. The Indonesians lacked enthusiasm for his methods or his plan and the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Adam  Malik was stirred to administer a mild public rebuke. With India the previous government had established a good and confident relationship. Its actions following the IndiaPakistan War in organising recognition of the new State of Bangladesh, its ready and effective help during the time that the refugees presented such a problem for India and its economy, and the cordial talks which I had with  Mrs Ghandi  and with the Indian Foreign Minister,  Mr Swaran  Singh, during my visit as Foreign Minister to New Delhi last year, all contributed to the strength of this relationship. 
I only hope that when the Prime Minister visits New Delhi early in June he will be able to repair some of the damage that has been done. It is no answer for the Prime Minister to say, as he did in response recently to a question about this matter in this House, that he has received cordial communication from  Mrs Ghandi.  This is customary with incoming Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers. Convention would require no less. It is irrelevant to the matter I have raised. With Malaysia and Singapore too, with whom the previous government had established a close understanding and relationship, especially by reason of our entry into the Five Power Arrangements, our relationship has now become clouded. The backing and filling of the Labor Government and some of its Ministers over the Five Power Arrangements and the Prime Minister's extraordinary statement that it was necessary to keep 600-odd troops in Singapore in order to conceal the presence of an Australian spy unit there, which he thereby publicly revealed, has made Australia look ridiculous and has reduced our reputation and standing in those 2 countries. 

 His gratuitous advice to Thailand regarding ridding themselves of the presence of American armed forces in that country has caused resentment there. Even in the case of PapuaNew Guinea, the sound relationship established by the previous Government, valuably contributed to by the previous Minister for External Territories,  Mr Andrew  Peacock, has been shaken by the marked insensitivity shown in their dealings with the Territory by the present Minister for External Territories,  Mr Morrison,  and the Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones. The Minister for External Territories seems more in haste to obtain Australian independence from Papua New Guinea than he is in helping the Territory in a responsible way to attain its own independence. However, since the Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  has been rude to him, the Minister for Shipping and Transport seems to have repaired some of the damage done by his ham-fisted method of dealing with the question of Papua New Guinea's airline. The risk is that the way the present Government is handling the question of Papua-New Guinea may place strains upon the Territory's Ministers, including the Chief Minister, which may prove almost too much for them to bear. 
No-one should underrate the continuing importance to Australia of a strong, friendly and united Papua New Guinea. All this doctrinaire talk of getting rid of colonialism is, in present circumstances, so much nonsense. New Guinea is not a colony. It was a mandated territory under the League of Nations; it is now trust territory under the United Nations. We must discharge our trust in a proper way. The Government is developing a habit of reminding us that we live in a multi-polar world. The Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  referred to this yesterday in his defence statement. I would not disagree with that description, although the balance of power in our region is not easy to assess because the poles are of different orders of magnitude and of interest. But the conclusions which the Government draws from this new multi-polarity and the reduction of tension which has followed from the visits of the  President  of the United States to Peking and Moscow are dangerously simplistic. The conclusion that we may now relax is quite unproven. Indeed, an alternative view is that the new multi-polar conditions contain the seeds of new possible conflicts of interest; that the new balance is precarious; and, that the causes of tension have not yet been removed. Whichever view proves to be correct, one thing is clear. In the present situation we need to be extremely careful.  Sir, I  believe and certainly I hope that the period of the Cold War is now behind us. All the peoples of the world must be glad, as we are, that the period of confrontation has been superseded by a period of negotiation. Detente is wonderful. 
But if I may adapt some words from an article in the 'Economist' in May last year, about the time of  President  Nixon's visit to Moscow, there is at present insufficient evidence for us to conclude finally that the ideological war of the twentieth century is ready to follow the wars on religion into history just yet. And the position is complicated. In a worried world there is a seductive attraction in the belief held by some that Marxism might have something to offer, if only it could get over the totalitarian organisational concept of Leninism and the aberrations of Stalinism. In our situation I believe that we have to make every effort to establish international contact and international accord. May I remind the House that while I was Foreign Minister we substantially improved our relations with Soviet Russia - and I recall a most useful conversation with  Mr Gromyko,  the Foreign Minister of that country. We established diplomatic relations with the communist States of Romania, Czechoslovakia, Poland and the Mongolian People's Republic. We supported a resolution in the United Nations General Assembly to admit the People's Republic of China though, as is known, we opposed the simultaneous expulsion of our friend Taiwan. I believe we must press forward with our efforts to improve international contact and international accord. This direction of policy in the Prime Minister's statement is in line with our own. But in doing so we must never allow our foreign policy to be dictated simply by a priori assumption or rigid ideological convictions whichever party is in power in Australia. We must look at the realities and remember that those who will not learn from history may be condemned to repeat it. 
I pass now to a different topic. The Minister for Defence in his statement yesterday referred to the strategic assessment that no direct threat to Australia was seen as being likely for the next 10 years.  Sir, this  proposition was first advanced a couple of years ago, yet those who mention it continually move the period of 10 years forward. The proposition when first advanced referred, as I understood it then and as I understand it now, to the threat of direct intrusion upon Australian soil. Some people loosely tend to take it as referring to threats of any kind. I believe there is much sense in the comment made, I believe by  Dr Millar,  that it is not threats but situations from which threats may arise at which Australia should be looking. History shows that the threats to Australia which have arisen in recent years have not been clearly seen 10 years in advance but have developed inside that time scale. 
As to the importance of looking at situations rather than looking at threats let me mention just 2 illustrations. If the recent Moslem uprising which occurred in the country to the north of us had gained Moslem support in the 2 other countries from which it was sought, this would have involved implications for Australia. Again, if Papua New Guinea after independence became fragmented and if, for example, Bougainville separated and approaches to Bougainville were made by some great power for the concession of a naval base in return for aid, this again could have implications for Australia. These are situations, not threats. But they are situations which do not involve any 10 year time scale, and it would be wrong to ignore them. The lesson is that this is not the time for us to relax into an ideological or theoretical dreamtime in foreign affairs or defence. We should be cautious, prudent and far sighted. Above all, we should look the facts squarely in the face. 
I realise the pressures upon the Minister for External Territories, who is seated at the table, and upon the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has to carry heavy burdens for the Australian people at the present time, as does anyone who occupies the office of Prime Minister. But his statement does nothing to allay the fears of those who believe that the burden of the 2 portfolios - that of the Minister for Foreign Affairs as well as that of Prime Minister - are too much for one man. Indeed, the very elements of knowledge, enthusiasm and confidence - some would say over-confidence - which induced him to take upon himself these 2 burdens themselves carry the seeds of danger.  Sir, we  should never be content to see Australian foreign affairs in the hands of anyone who by reason of his position as Prime Minister is inevitably under pressure - beyond that on any other Ministerto be concerned with rhetoric for domestic consumption and with domestic public relations or subject to excessive temptation to cut a figure on the world stage. Foreign policy at the present time is too important to us for this. It demands a full-time, quiet and prudent consideration of the complex, deep and abiding interests and responsibilities of Australia in our relations with the other countries of the world. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morrison)  adjourned. 
en asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Joint Australia/Japan Ministerial Committee which held its first meeting in Canberra on 12, and 13 October 1972, when and where is it expected that the next meeting of this Committee will take place, and what steps have been taken to arrange it. 
en asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government accept the principle of universality in relation to the United Nations. 
Will the Government support the applications for membership by: 
the Governments of East and West Germany; 
the Governments of North and South Vietnam; and 
the Governments of North and South Korea. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Japanese-speaking persons are at present on the diplomatic staff of the Australian Embassy in Tokyo. 
How many, Japanese-speaking members of staff are in the Department in Canberra. 
What positions do they occupy. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Chinese-speaking persons are at present on the diplomatic staff of the Australian Embassy in Peking. 
How many Chinese-speaking members of staff are in the Department in Canberra. 
What positions do they occupy. 
en asked  the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon  notice: 
Has Indonesia yet opened a Consulate in Port Moresby? 
Has the Australian Government taken any steps to assist in bringing this about? 
If so, what steps have been taken? 
en asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to establish an Overseas Property Section with the necessary architects, valuers and other experts to supervise the purchase, lease, decoration, repair and maintenance of Australian Embassies, residences and other property overseas. 
If so, what steps have been taken to establish such a section. 
en asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in seeking to arrange attendance by Australia at the next Conference of Non-aligned Nations in Algiers. 
Is he still seeking sponsorship by Yugoslavia; if so, what success is he having in bis endeavours. 
en asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Are there opportunities at present for foreign policy initiatives directed at reducing tension in the Middle East. 
As Australia is now a member of the Security Council of the United Nations, does the Government propose any initiative relating to the situation in the Middle East 
en asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Government have consultations with the governments of any of our South East Asian or 
Pacific neighbours prior to its recognition of (a) the People's 'Republic of China and (b) the Democratic Republic of Vietnam? 
If so, when and with which governments were such consultations held? 
Yes. Last evening, in the course of debate, I advised the Parliament that a Press statement had been issued in Canberra on 11 June 1970 by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and  Senator Lawrie.  That Press statement said- 
Country Party seeks new telephone policy. Two Country Party parliamentarians have asked the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  to introduce a new policy. 
Of course, the new policy had been approved by Cabinet 9 days before. It is a remarkable coincidence that before the Budget session, when Parliament was not meeting, 2 members came to Canberra and issued such an accurate Press statement in the course of which they clearly indicated that they had had discussions with the Postmaster-General. I assume that they spoke about everything except the country lines policy. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
