
 -Mr Deputy Speaker, thank you very much for those courtesies. Like other members who have spoken before me today and yesterday, I would like you to convey my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  on his election to such a high office and also my congratulations to the  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  Of course, I want to thank the House for its courtesy in allowing me to speak now. 
It would be wrong of me, in making my first speech, not to pay tribute to the former member for Barton. Although we are opposed politically, let me say that the former member for Barton,  Mr Reynolds,  served the people of Barton well. He has been devoted to them and also has contributed well to this Parliament, particularly in the field of education. I realise that he came here under completely different circumstances from those under which I came here only the day before yesterday. He came here when the economy was healthy and when everything was rosy. On having a glance at his maiden speech I noticed that it was unnecessary for him to talk on matters of the economy. We did not have any of those problems then. We did not have the problems that are outlined in the Governor-General's Speech. 
I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the people of the electorate of Barton. They were the ones who put me here. I promised to serve them well and faithfully. I sincerely hope that they will see fit to allow me to serve in this Parliament for longer than a 3-year term. On checking I ascertained that the electorate of Barton, which is in the southern subsurbs of Sydney, is a relatively old electorate. It came into being in 1922, although at the time of its original incorporation it embodied much of the area that is now included in the Federal seat of St George, and I noticed that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  also made his maiden speech today. He made it as the representative of territory that was originally part of the electorate of Barton. 
It is very interesting to look back through the early records concerning the electorate of Barton. Although in 1922 the electorate of Barton covered twice the area that it covers today, it had only 45 000 voters. Today, with a seat half the size, there are 65 000 voters. That is significant. It indicates the growth that has taken place in the area. The electorate of Barton is an area that is now completely developed. It is almost entirely residential and it is the home of many fine families. Like the electorate of St George, it is an area whose inhabitants, although certainly not old, tend to have an average age of a little above the Australian average. Therefore one thing that is important in the electorate of Barton is education, particularly high school and university education. Because of the slightly higher average age, it is also an important area for pensioners and senior citizens. 
As the representative of Barton I am very much aware of the needs of the senior people in our area. I know that we have clearly stated in our policies, in the Governor-General's Speech, that we propose automatic increases in pensions. I hope that this will give the pensioners a far better deal than they have had over the last few years. I recall of course the promises of the Opposition that it would maintain pensions at a certain percentage of average weekly earnings. But due to the inflation caused by its reckless policies the average weekly wage went up at such a rate that it was absolutely impossible to raise pensions to their promised levels. 
I return to Barton. One of the unique attractions in the area is that my seat is bordered on the eastern side by Botany Bay. I think honourable members realise the importance of this, of Botany Bay being the birthplace of our nation. It is a truly beautiful area and we must strive, even with the development that is planned there, to make sure that Botany Bay remains a truly beautiful area and something that we as a nation can look upon and say with pride: 'That is the birthplace of our nation'. I know that members of the Opposition will not mind me mentioning that the seat is also famous because it was held by the Australian Labor Party's leader, the late  Dr Evatt,  from 1940 to 1958. Certainly that has helped to add fame to the seat. He was a prominent figure and 18 years is a long time to hold a seat. 
It is obvious from the address presented by the Governor-General that the first duties of this Parliament will revolve around arresting inflation, reducing unemployment and generally creating a healthy economy. I must confess that it was rather pleasant to hear the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  at least talk about the economy. Few people in the Opposition have done so. They tend to side-step the issue and talk about some supposed constitutional crisis that is now in the past. I feel that the success of the policies that we have laid down in the Governor-General's Speech will restore a healthy economy. The main problem is inflation. It is strange that we had such a rapid rise in inflation when the present Opposition was in Government. The Party that claims to be the friend of the poor is the Party that through inflation has widened the gap and disadvantaged the poor so much. 
This Government will not tolerate inflation. I am pleased to see that in the GovernorGeneral's Speech we pledge to bring inflation under control. I know that in doing this already some minor cost cutting has been carried out by the Government, but in the long run these cost cuttings, these economies that I know hurt a few people, are to the benefit of all of Australia. Although those measures hurt a few people Australians have to think a Little about our selfishness. No longer can we pursue our selfish idealsall our wants, our needs and desires. Sometimes we have to say no. When a polite no is said, it is to the benefit of Australia as a whole. 
One of the more immediate jobs is to reduce unemployment. When we act to restore the economy, inflation and unemployment go hand in hand. I think that unemployment is one of the problems that we can rectify quickly. Inflation will take a little longer. Many honourable members present today have many people unemployed in their electorates. The electorate of Barton is no exception; we have many people who are unemployed. Since becoming a member of the Parliament, good people have come into my electorate office daily with stories of hardships. It is not their fault. It is the fault of the policies of the former Government. We have to help these people. We must help them. But rather than giving them handouts, we must help them by formulating policies which will give them jobs, because jobs are far better than handouts. 
Let us look at what unemployment does to people. I ask honourable members to consider the tremendous psychological effects that it has on individuals and on their families. Some honourable members would have noticed that coupled with increasing unemployment there is a tremendously increasing divorce rate. This is one of the many psychological effects of unemployment. It breaks up marriages. It is something that we certainly must do without. Also, unemployment takes the taxpayers' money. We have to pay out the money of all the good working Australian people to provide benefits for the unemployed. It costs the Australian taxpayer money to do this. It also is costing the Australian taxpayers money in that the Government is not receiving taxes from the wages all of those people who could be working. So unemployment is a pretty disastrous thing. Unemployment also means that around Australia we have factories and machinery with idle capacity. We could be producing more goods for our nation and more goods for our export market. 
I do not think that there is need for me to elaborate on the seriousness of this current situation. It is due to poor monetary planning. It is due to waste caused by spendthrift policies. It is due to irresponsibility in tariff policies and it is due to a lack of confidence throughout the business sector, the private sector in Australia. Honourable members know the result of this story. The level of unemployment has grown from 100 000 to 350 000 people. I think that another important thing to recognise is the changing pattern of unemployment. We have rapid developments in education in Australia for our young people. I certainly support rapid developments in education and the right of every Australian to be educated to a high standard. However, we have a problem. The production of educated people at the moment appears to be out of step with the job availability. If I were allowed one luxury, as was suggested by another honourable member in his maiden speech, it would be that somewhere in the future a study should be made of the future needs of industry and the future requirements of government to assess job availability perhaps over a 10-year period. At least, our university courses should be tapered so that when the students and the doctors and the degreed people whom our universities produce have completed their courses they can be rewarded with a job. We should not have the situation that we have today, and which exists in other advanced countries in the world, of people with Arts degrees not being able to get work at $130 to $140 a week. Yet there are other jobs, manual jobs, available- they have been available in many cases all the way through the last few years- for unskilled workers, with wages in excess of $200 available a week and no one to take them. This is a sorry state. What a reward for someone doing 3, 4 or 5 years university study. He gets his degree and is rewarded by not being able to get a job. 
I refer back to the economy. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  mentioned the investment allowance in his speech. The investment allowance that has been instituted by our Government is something that will quickly help to get our economy moving. The investment allowance is designed to entice businesses to buy machinery; in other words, to involve themselves in what is called capital expenditure. This move will help improve the unemployment situation because the companies that 3 to 4 years ago were manufacturing machinery are the companies that have had to put off staff. That is the field where a big percentage of our unemployment is. So in answer to the honourable member for Adelaide, I am confident that our Government can get the economy going quickly. The new 40 per cent investment allowance will certainly go a long way towards that. I should like to elaborate on that point, but time will not permit. 
I should like to talk briefly about overseas investment. If, as the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  said, 'profit' is a filthy word, 'overseas investment' are filthy words too. Overseas investment was destroyed by the previous Government. I am not one to stand here and want Australians not to own their country. I am not one to advocate that, but in Australia we do not have the internal financial ability to develop and own all of our country. When an overseas company- I am not referring to nationally essential industry- wants to invest money in Australia, it is not buying part of Australia. Australia is still ours, but the company is renting part of it. Whatever the company buys is still subject to all the laws of our land. They are subject to the laws of local government, State governments and Federal governments. They provide employment; they pay taxes, including sales tax on the goods produced. When an overseas company comes here it is like someone offering us a partnership and we get 70 per cent of the profits. I am afraid my time has expired. I thank the House for listening to me. I appreciate being here and would like to thank the people of Barton for electing me to this position. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation. Has the Department of Repatriation, as part of the Government's cutbacks in spending, closed any of its institutions? If so, which institutions are involved and what arrangements have been made for the welfare of the patients and staff at those institutions? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Having had past experience as Leader of the Opposition, in which position the Prime Minister is unlikely to serve again, will he say whether he would have been able to find the time to engage in a social breakfast with people he had not met before and for no apparent reason, just 3 days before a Federal election? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise to speak in support of the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill and the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill because of the continuing condemnation of the rural sector by those sitting opposite. I want to assure the House and the people of Australia that the people who live in the various metropolitan areas of the cities around Australia are united with the people who live and work in the country and rural areas. But continually the members in the Opposition seem to want to drive a wedge between the 2 peoples. They do not fully understand the plight of the rural people and it is certainly evident in this House. 
It reminds me of a statement once made by an eminent  speaker,  who said: 'If no changes are forthcoming things will remain exactly as they are'. The way things are going on the benches opposite, if the honourable members over there continue to talk about constitutional crises, if they continue to talk about violence which they bring up regularly, and if they continue to knock the farmer, I am afraid they certainly will stay exactly as they are, which is with very small numbers sitting over there on the Opposition benches. They are in tatters. They are in disarray and they are straining very hard to find what to knock next. They will not find anything concerning the present Government. It is difficult of course to sit here and listen to the same thing. It gets quite monotonous. How disappointed the 40-odd per cent of the Australian people must be who voted for the Labor Party. How they must feel. 
Many members will be able to cast their mind back just a few years ago- I think 2 short yearswhen the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made that staggering statement that farmers must wait on next year's crop before they can buy their yachts. Yet only a short time after that remarkable statement, farmers have been walking off their properties to find work in the dues as labourers, unskilled factory workers, and to work at any job they can get to support their families and to help to maintain and service the debts that have been built up on their farms. It is a ridiculous situation. We had people on farms who supposedly were worth many thousands of dollars and now to use a term that is common amongst Australians, they are walking around with the seat out of their pants. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who spoke before me in this debate mentioned a couple of books that he had with him. I forget their titles but it might be an idea to commend the reading of those books to the new shadow Minister for Agriculture in the Opposition. I believe he was appointed today. It might be a good idea for him to duck down to the Parliamentary Library and start to read those books. To return to the superphosphate bounty, we are talking about approximately $30m. I select that figure as the yearly average of what the bounty has cost the Government since 1963. In 1963 the bounty cost the governments 18.8m. By 1973, 10 years later, it had built up gradually to hit a peak of $67m. In 1974 it fell back to $23.9m. I admit that to some people that figure may sound rather large, but let us take it in context. 
Let us consider that figure as a percentage of the value of our 1974-75 crop which was $2,265m. The money that has been expended on the bounty represents about 1 per cent of the value of that crop. The expenditure of that 1 per cent does not benefit only the rich, as the Opposition continually states. There are many hundreds of poor farmers for every rich farmer and there are thousands of people living in rural areas and working on farms whose wages are dependent on the farms continuing to operate. Without this bounty the unemployment in the rural sector would increase. It would continue to cause people to move to the metropolitan areas and we would have rising unemployment there. 
Let us consider the value of the bounty to Australia. Let us consider the things it achieves, apart from the suggestion from the Opposition that it puts money in the pockets of the rich. As the honourable member for Macarthur and other honourable members have said before me, much of Australia's arable land is unsuitable for primary production unless it is assisted with aids like superphosphate. Superphosphate greatly increases the productive area of land in Australia and that puts money into all pockets throughout the Australian community. If members of the Opposition do not believe what I say, let them think for one minute of what would happen if by some stroke of bad luck farmers stopped producing. It would be the people in the cities and the metropolitan areas who would be hurt first. They would not have their cereals for breakfast; they would not have their bread to eat. So we are considering a most important sector of the community. As I have said before, making sure that our farmers operate to their maximum extent plays a great part in creating employment in rural areas and plays a great part in our decentralisation policies. People are not going to move out of the metropolitan areas if there is no work for them to go to. 
What about the value of our farm products as an export earner for Australia? Do members of the Opposition not think that everyone benefits from that? Of course they do. Our farm products contribute a staggering amount of money towards our export revenue and without this income Australia's economy on an international basis would not be of the standing that it is today. I might add also that assistance such as the superphosphate bounty contributes greatly towards keeping domestic prices of wheat and other grains to a low level. It ensures that we do not pay too much for our packets of cereal which we eat of a morning and that we do not pay too much for our loaves of bread. 
I was looking today at a report of the study carried out by the Industries Assistance Commission into the superphosphate bounty. The study was originated on 29 January last year when the present Opposition was in government. The Whitlam Government instituted the IAC inquiry to report on the superphosphate bounty. The report had to be tabled by 3 1 July last year, and it was. The Industries Assistance Commission recommended that the continuation of the consumption of phosphate fertilisers be assisted by restoration of the bounty previously payable. Yet, like Opposition members do in so many cases when they do not agree with a report they find an excuse not to take any notice of it. It is a bit like playing cricket: When you are given out and you do not want to go, you take your bat and ball and go home. That is the way the Opposition has treated the recommendation. 
The honourable member for Blaxland might be asleep. We know his ability in agriculture. 
I know that the honourable member is a real ripper. That is why his Party changes front bench members around all the time and why it keeps on having new shadow Ministers for Agriculture. The shadow Ministers have to swap around to learn a bit. I did want to rise as a person representing a metropolitan seat. As I said before, I think the only amount of superphosphate that the people of Barton use is the odd handful they throw on the lawn. But I felt that the opportunity could not pass by without bringing forward the fact that the people of Australia are united. The people in the metro.politan areas of the city are Australians, along with our fellow farmers from the rural areas. 
Can the Prime Minister say whether he intends to take part in the New South Wales election campaign? Have there been any events in recent days which have caused him to reconsider his attitude on this matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the conflicting approaches adopted by the companies offices of New South Wales, Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory regarding the treatment of tax effect accounting and related matters in company accounts? If so, does he, as the Minister responsible for the Companies Ordinance in the Australian Capital Territory, propose to take any action? 
Is the Attorney-General aware that some wives who are separated from their husbands and who have had orders made for their maintenance, are having difficulty in collecting that maintenance? Has the AttorneyGeneral examined the extent of this problem? Will he take steps to see that orders made under the Family Law Act are complied with? 
It is quite exciting to follow the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in this debate because of some of the statements he made about the Bills now before the House. Often I sit here and wonder about some of the magnificent statements made by members of the Opposition. I wonder what they really know about economics and what they know about managing money. I sat here and listened intently to the honourable member, who spoke mainly about Medibank and the disadvantages of the Medibank package brought down last week by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Although I concentrate as hard as I can, I can not see anything wrong with the scheme. In fact, I can only see that it is a scheme that is of tremendous advantage to all Australians and that it costs less. 
I would like to get back to all the Bills that are listed for debate at this time. There are a number of them and there has been some suggestions that they should be debated separately. I disagree with that proposition because most of the Bills stem from the statement made last week by the Treasurer. I agree with the opening remarks of the Treasurer when he said: 
This statement is a further major step in the implementation of the Government's economic policy; it represents the culmination of S months work which began on 14 December 1975. 
This Govenment has gone a long way towards rectifying all the ills created by the former Labor Government. We still have a long way to go and a lot of hard work to do before all those ills can be rectified. As I said before, when honourable members opposite talk about economic matters generally, they talk about plant that lies idle round Australia. They look at the bare simplicity of things. When plant lies idle and there is no domestic demand they ask: 'What can we do to stimulate investment?' Sometimes I have sat here and wondered whether they have ever heard of the word 'export' or the word 'efficiency'. Those are the fields in which considerable improvements can be made. Those are the fields in which we have plenty of room to move. Only late last week the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said that recovery must be consumer led. We agree that recovery must involve consumer recovery but it does not necessarily have to be consumer led. Statements similar to this have been made on many occasions by members of the Opposition. They do not seem to realise that by influencing people to invest and by influencing people to get involved in capital expenditure, it follows that consumer recovery will result therefrom. 
That is what the honourable member does not understand. It is all right to the honourable member to invest in things that he understands, but he does not see why one should invest in things that he does not understand. The shadow Treasurer does not understand what I am talking about; he only understands the basic simplicity of economics. He as not heard of the word 'export'. He has not found out that if we cannot sell goods locally, other markets are still left open. We have made the statement that our recovery will be investment led; never at any time did we say that consumer recovery would not result. We are seeing a consumer recovery coming now as a result of our policies for an investment led recovery. 
The shadow Treasurer, who has just left the chamber, also said: 'the investment allowance is just a gratuitous handout'. The honourable member for Oxley referred to it as an enormous bonanza. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  referred to it as a 'naked subsidy'. I do not quite know what he means by a 'naked subsidy'. But our economic recoveries are starting to work. I should like to talk about some of the details contained in the statement of the Treasurer last week and the generosity of them. We have talked a little about Medibank. The Opposition seems to measure the effectiveness of everything by how much money is spent. If we continue to measure things by the amount of money spent, all we do is breed inefficiency. Our Government tends to give the Australian people more value. We tend to cut out the waste and the duplication and we tend to give the Australian people better value for their money because it is their money. As I said before, Medibank offers the choice of many different arrangements to the people. At the same time it saves the country money. The people are achieving more than they achieved before and it is costing us less. If that is not efficiency, I do not know what it is. 
I refer now to child endowment. I notice that honourable members from the other side of the House have not criticised this generosity to any great extent because they cannot find anything to criticise. It is a most generous move on behalf of the Government to increase child endowment to the extent it has. If there is anything that Australia needs it is to make sure that our young families are provided for because these are our future and this is the area in which we should be working. 
Personal tax indexation was another step in the right direction. We all know that with the erosion of wages over the last few years through massive inflation incentive has been taken away from people to work and to earn money because all it does is to create increased taxes that go into government hands. Today many people are not willing to work longer hours or overtime to earn more money because taxation erodes it away. When the country gets to a situation like that, and incentive is taken away, we are in real trouble. Our package to restore personal tax indexation will gradually restore the incentive to the people- to the workers. It will give ample reward to the people who want to work. I might add that the statement by the Treasurer the other night certainly was not a Budget. We shall see the Budget in August. But the statement certainly was an incentive to give people confidence at the present time. 
I should like to come to part of the economic deal which is the investment allowance. The investment allowance which is before the Parliament at the moment provides incentive to make businesses invest in capital equipment and to encourage investment generally. That is the thing which the honourable gentlemen on the other side cannot understand. I should like to spend some time on this matter because I think it is a most generous and important part of our economic policy. I think that in many instances members of the public do not realise the true advantage and generosity of this allowance. The investment allowance is designed to encourage people to put forward their plans for capital expenditure. I agree with previous speakers that an investment allowance will not necessarily encourage additional expenditure, but it certainly will encourage people to bring forward their plans for investment. This is exactly what we want because at the moment plant around Australia has idle capacity. This was not the case prior to the Labor Government coming to office. What we want to do is to take up this idle capacity quickly by encouraging people through the investment allowance to bring their orders forward. 
Let me explain briefly how and why we are so intent on encouraging investment in this area, how it will flow on to consumer recovery, and how it will benefit Australia generally. At the moment we have high unemployment in Australia. There are over 300 000 people out of work. If we look closely at where that unemployment came from, we find that it came from the industries that were formerly manufacturing what we refer to as 'capital items.' Unemployment came from the heavy engineering industry. When the downturn came in the economy and people lost confidence in the previous Government, businesses and organisations generally stopped ordering this major equipment. A lot of people call it 'putting their tails between their legs'. That is where the unemployment came from. Today we have the staggering number of over 300 000 people out of work. It is costing the country $500m a year in payment of social service benefits to those unfortunate people. If through the investment allowance, we can encourage orders to come back to those companies which lost them so that they can once again gear up their production, they will draw their work force from the 300 000-odd people who are out of work. 
The investment allowance will do a number of things. First of all it will gradually reduce the tremendous expense to the Government of this $500m a year in unemployment benefits. The Government will be greatly advantaged by that situation. Secondly, it will provide wages to those people who were formerly trying to exist on dole payments and out of those wages those people will contribute their fair share of taxation towards the cost of government. Not only will we save in unemployment benefit payments but also the country will gain handsomely from the tax that is collected from those people. So, instead of a saving of $500m in unemployment benefit, the advantage to the country might be something like $ 1,000m because we will also be getting the tax that is collected. 
Let us talk about the other advantages that will flow on and that will allow us, as a government, to be generous in relation to social welfare, as we have shown in the statement made by the Treasurer the other night, and that will help the Government to be most generous in relation to social welfare in the Budget next August and in subsequent years. I think many people do not realise- certainly many people on the Opposition benches do not realise- that the money we provide for spending on education, health and so on has to come from somewhere and the only area from which a government gets money is from taxation- the taxation that it takes out of people's wages and the taxation that comes from company profits. 
The best way in which to have more money to spend on health, pensions and so on is to give confidence to the private sector, to encourage the private sector- not because we as a government want the private sector to get rich and make profits, which is only secondary, but because we want the private sector to make profits so that we as a government can obtain increased revenue. The Government is going to get the increased revenue not by overtaxing people; it is going to get the increased revenue by making the private sector more profitable. Once this increased revenue  comes  about and, as I have just been reminded, a reduction in unemployment takes place there will be more money for education, health and all the other things for which a government is depended upon to help those people most in need. That is exactly what the Government is doing. The Government is a big filter that takes in taxation at one end and filters it through to the needy. That is exactly what our policies are designed to do. That is exactly what the Government intends to do. 
I wish now to give in a few explanatory figures to the House. Some honourable members feel that no economic recovery is in sight, but I can assure the House that a study of the latest statistics that have been produced indicate that economic recovery is now on the way. Let us look at the latest figures, namely, those for the March quarter. They indicate that the value of retail sales in March increased by $61m. These economic statistics are the official figures of the Department of the Treasury. That represents a 3.9 increase. The increase in February over the same period last month was only $ 14.1m. In January of this year there was an actual decline of $4.8m over January of last year. 
So, taking the 3 months of January, February and March into account, we had a disastrous January when the figures actually fell behind those for January of last year, but in February we gained a little bit, being $ 14.1m ahead in retail sales, and in March we were ahead by $6 lm over last year. Increased retail sales have come about through consumer spending. It is absolute rubbish for honourable members on the other side of the House to say that our policies do not affect consumer spending because they certainly do. Those figures prove it. Compared with the position in 1975, we were 2.9 per cent in front over the whole quarter and that has even taken into account the disastrous January figures. 
I turn now to another important indicator which certainly influences our economy greatly and which is a great indication of how we are going, namely, the registration of new passenger vehicles. The registration of new passenger vehicles increased strongly in March to a level higher that the average monthly level recorded in 1975. In seasonally adjusted terms, which is perhaps the fairest way in which to put such figures, the registrations for the March quarter of 1976 were up 14.7 per cent on the registrations for the March quarter of 1 975. That is a quite significant increase. So a whole lot of rubbish is being spoken by honourable members opposite when they say that the policies of the Government are not working. They are working. They will not only influence investment spending and capital spending but also greatly influence and help consumer spending. 
It is the Government's policy to increase the profitability of the private sector, but it is not doing so at the expense of the public sector because the public sector is dependent upon increases coming from the private sector as the public sector's wages come from the taxation that is generated by the private sector. But we will increase the profitability of the private sector. We will gain additional revenue without having to overtax the people and the additional revenue that we gain will go out to the people in the form of increased social welfare payments, increased pensions, better health services and better education. In 3 years' time when we come to be judged again by the people they will judge us on those matters. 
I will be here. The people will judge us on those matters and we will be back in office with- I know it is hard to imagine it- a larger majority than we have now. 
Has the Treasurer seen a statement made by the Labor Party spokesman on economic affairs that the investment allowance should be abolished? Can he give the House any indication of the recent level of investment spending by business? 
The Treasurer will be aware of the general favourable response to the Government's decision not to increase indirect taxes this year. Can he give the House a comparison of the effects of the Government's decision in respect of indirect taxes in this Budget with those of other recent Budgets? 
-It gives me much pleasure to support the Government on Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). I must confess that I am extremely disappointed that more Opposition members have not preceded me in this debate. 
Yes, they have run out, and the Opposition is just not there. This Budget has been well received by the Australian public. There is not the slightest doubt about that. Press reports indicate that the Australian people in all communities and in all walks of life have accepted this Budget as being a good and responsible Budget. The Budget is one that maximises the benefits to the people while at the same time, through more efficient management in the government departments, it is able to reduce income tax rates and to hold those taxes that usually rise year after year with regular monotony. I refer to those items on which duties are usually increased in a Budget, such as beer, cigarettes and wine. There was speculation in the Press about such items prior to the Budget. I think it was a disappointment to our friends on the Opposition benches that we did not conform to the usual practice of increasing duties on those items, as is regularly done. 
The Budget is a brave one- brave because the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has realised the need to continue with a reduced but still sizeable deficit. We all know of the steady increase in deficit during the 3 years of Labor rule. I am so pleased that our Treasurer, in his Budget, has seen fit and seen the necessity to carry on with at least some deficit. To try to wipe out a deficit of almost $5,000m in one year would be disastrous to the economy. Too much damage has been done. Our task in the future is to make sure that we gradually reduce that deficit to get the Australian economy back on a sound footing without hurting the Australian people. I am pleased to see that this year the Treasurer has budgeted for a deficit of $2, 600m. That is a very big improvement on last year's deficit of almost $3,600m and a deficit that was heading towards $5,000m had we not won the election on 13 December and saved Australia from a very desperate situation. 
I should also like to congratulate both the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer on their excellent Budget security. A member of the Opposition talked about Budget leaks in connection with this year's Budget. In reality there were no Budget leaks, and any claim that information had been leaked was completely false. This Budget has involved one of the best security exercises in many years, far better, considering especially the leaks from the previous Labor Government Budgets last year and the year before. Only last Tuesday, the Leader of the Opposition (Mr E. G. Whitlam) talked about the 'well informed Press speculation', to use his term. All I can say is that these leaks just did not exist. 
I know that members of the Opposition have had some difficulty in comprehending the figures in the Budget because it is rather lengthy and a little bit thick for them to read. It is very difficult for them to digest. 
I do not think they can. I think their past performance has proved that they just do not understand the economy. But most Government supporters are able to go through these figures and size up all the advantages to the Australian people. Regardless of what is said by members of the Opposition, built into the Budget is our intention to bring inflation in Australia down to a single digit figure- 9 per cent- in 12 months time. That is a lot better than the inflation level when we came to power. It is a long way towards making life more bearable for the average Australian person, and in fact for all Australian people. 
Along with the downturn in inflation which we expect and which will eventuate, we have automatically reduced interest rates. This reduction will allow young Australian people to obtain loans at interest rates they can afford to repay to buy houses. It will also increase investment because as anyone who understands any basic facts about the economy will know, if we are to get investment going returns marginally will have to exceed the inflation rate. Nobody is going to invest money at a 10 per cent return when inflation is running at 14 per cent or IS per cent. In such circumstances one only goes backwards each year. I do not think anyone with any sense would do that. So when we get our inflation rate down to 9 per cent there will be a very large amount of investment. 
I think many honourable members have covered the effects of a high rate of inflation. We have already seen what happens- massive unemployment and hardship for many people. We disadvantage those people who are on fixed incomes and pensions. In fact very few people escape from being casualties of high inflation. I do not want to repeat the history of unemployment in Australia over the last 3 years. I am sure that this has been adequately covered by many of my colleagues. I do not wish our cries about this subject to be repeated with the monotonous regularity that the Opposition displays with respect to its dismissal last November by the Governor-General. 
The Budget is based on a  Vi  per cent fall in Australia's unemployment. Unemployment is running at a little under 5 per cent at present. In 12 months it will be down  Vi  per cent. That 1  ¥i  per cent fall will be achieved after accommodating the 200 000 school leavers who will come onto the employment market at the end of this year. I am pleased to say that according to the statistics in the back of the Budget document, in almost every case expenditure has been increased. However, expenditure has not been increased in the unemployment area. This is not because we are going to pay the unemployed less but because we intend to have fewer unemployed. As a result there will be a saving of about $40m. I might add that there is strong evidence now that indicates that this fall in unemployment will eventuate. Recent statistics on the average overtime per employee worked indicate that average overtime has gone from 1.8 man hours per week to 2.5 man hours per week. 
What is happening in industry today is that before more staff are put on employers are taking full advantage of their present staff and are building up the overtime rate worked by employees. When the overtime reaches a certain level obviously the next step is to put on more employees. I might also add that the average rate of overtime at the height of the boom period when the Liberal-Country Party was in power in 1972 was 4 man hours per employee per week. So we are approaching the stage where overtime will reach its maximum level and the next step will be for manufacturing industry and industry in general to put on more employees. 
I am pleased to tell the people of Australia that this Budget will assist many people in my Sydney electorate of Barton as it will the majority of the Australian people. The Budget helps children, students, mothers, wage earners, pensioners, owners and operators of small businesses and private companies, local councils and shires, and all State governments, regardless of their political philosophies. I am both mystified and amused by the comment made by the Leader of the Opposition in his Budget speech when he said: 
Big business comes first in the Fraser Government- the people come last 
I can assure the people of Australia- many of them are listening to the broadcast of these proceedings this evening- that they come first. All the Australian people come first with this Government. We wish to help, and we realise our responsibility to help, all people and all pans of the Australian community. I should like to deal with some of the outstanding items of the Budget. I think the item that has received the most generous comment is that relating to social welfare. Total expenditure on social welfare is $6, 187m- almost 25 per cent of the total Budget outlay, and a 23.5 per cent increase on last year's budgetary item. The increase alone is greater than the total allocation for social welfare just a few short years ago. In fact the amount allocated for social welfare in this Budget makes the amount allocated for it only 5 years ago look like petty cash. It will be the policy of this Government, as the economy improves and as more funds become available, to channel much of these funds into this worthwhile field. 
I have heard previous speakers, including the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  mention that pensions have risen to $43.50 a week for single pensioners and $72.50 a week for married couples. This will cost the Australian people or this Government an additional $370m. Whether considered against the basic wage, the minimum wage or the average wage, age pensions have never been as high as they are under this Budget. That is not the end. This Government intends to increase pension rates further, when the country can afford it. We have also honoured our promise to adjust pensions automatically according to the consumer price index. We have removed the property means test associated with pensions which was unfair to many pensioners. We have increased war pensions and service pensions at a cost of an additional $82m. We have increased invalid pensions at a cost of an additional $88m. We have increased the handicapped children's allowance by 50 per cent and the children's benefit by 43 percent. 
Other speakers have mentioned the very generous new family allowances, because they deserve to be mentioned. As the Budget shows, before young families and people in need benefited under the generosity of our Government, family allowances were very small and under the inflation that exists today did not do very much. Now, under the new rates a family with one child gets $3.50 a week; before it got 50c. For a family with 2 children the allowance is $8.50 a week; before it was $ 1.50. That is a massive increase of hundreds of per cent. The allowances increase according to the number of children in the family. There are many 4 children families which receive $20.50 a week. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  has 7 children. I would hate to work out how much he gets in family allowances. He probably would not be able to carry it home. We can all have our little fun about child allowances but they hit home in the right place. 
How many children does the honourable member have? These allowances hit home in the right place. If there are people who need help in Australia they are the mothers and young families. To think that the Leader of the Opposition said that we do not care about people! The total cost of these new family allowances will be $ 1,000m this year, and next year it will be more. Another thing I should like to mention is a small item but I think a most important item in the Budget. It certainly helps the people in my electorate of Barton. I refer to the $4m allocated for construction of additional senior citizen centres. I have had the pleasure of visiting many senior citizen centres in my electorate. We have them at Mortdale, Oatley, Allawah, Ramsgate, Brighton-Le-Sands and Kogarah. I know the pleasure that these centres bring to elderly people and the comradeship that is developed there. I realise the importance of such centres to the community. We have allocated $4m for further construction of these centres. That is money that is well worth spending and which will bring a lot of pleasure to aged people. 
Let us look at education because people continually claim that we do not allocate enough money for education. We have been most generous. As with social welfare, we have generously recognised the continuing need for a high priority for education expenditure. Both funds provided to the States to meet their obligations for educating our children and funds provided to colleges and universities to ensure increasing facilities for our young men and women, tike the allocations for social welfare, make allocations a few years ago seem like petty cash. We have been most generous in this field. Let us look at health. Only a few years ago we spent $300m a year on health. This year we will spend $3000m. I might add that we are honouring our promises to maintain Medibank. We are not only maintaining it but are also improving it. We are giving the people a wider choice. We are ensuring that everybody has the opportunity of free health services and that people have a far greater choice now than they had before. 
I should like to spend a little time on the new housing voucher system, something that has been introduced into the Budget for the first time. I know only a small allocation of $75,000 has been made but it is the forerunner of something that will be tremendously important to the people of Australia. A recent survey revealed that money for housing that is channelled through the States is not reaching families most in need. This study disclosed that in Australia 144 000 families are in need. Of these, 123 000 are not receiving help from the States. As I said, $75,000 has been set aside in the Budget to set up a pilot workable system which will eventually provide rent assistance for families in need. This will allow families some personal choice in selecting premises in which to live. I think that is tremendously important. This pilot scheme will go a long way towards alleviating many hardships in the future. Many people for some reason or other have not been able to purchase their own homes; they have had to rely on rented premises. Of course, with inflation rents are now completely beyond their reach. 
What about personal tax indexation? I do not think enough noise has been made about that. It has cost us $ 1000m a year to alter the tax scale. Once again, at page 1 10 of the Budget Papers we find that not only is the tax scale being indexed and altered to overcome the need for people who get rises in pay to pay exceptionally high taxes, but also that the deduction of $540 which existed last year and other deductions have been increased. The $540 general deduction has been increased to $610. Whereas under the previous tax scale people were obliged to pay tax at the rate of 20 cents in the dollar for earnings of up to $2000 now as a result of indexation they will have to pay a rate of 20 cents in the dollar for up to $2260. The whole scale has been revised to the extent of 13 per cent. That certainly will help a lot of people and will stop the spiralling of government tax collections year after year. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and 
Community Development. I refer to an article in today's  Australian Financial Review  written by the Minister for Planning in the South Australian Parliament. It details raw land costs supposedly inaccurately stated by the Minister. The writer also suggests that the Minister's inaccuracies prompted an article by a Christopher Jay which is also claimed to be inaccurate. I ask the Ministen Did he mislead Parliament as suggested in the article? Will he inform the House whether the article by Christopher Jay is correct? 

 -Mr Chairman, it gives me great pleasure to support Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) and the estimates for the Department of Health and Department of Social Services. In this Budget the Government has proved most generous to the people who are most in need. I do not think we could choose any better field than that of health and social welfare in which to put so much money. Each of these areas, of course, takes a massive amount of money out of the total Budget outlay. The health appropriation works out at just on 12 per cent of the total Budget outlay; social welfare expenditure represents a massive 23.5 per cent of the total Budget outlay. It is rather interesting to look through the Budget documents and realise the generosity of this Government. We all know, of course, of the new Medibank program which is being introduced by this Government. It is a new program that gives the public of Australia a great amount of choice. But a further look at the Budget documents reveals the generosity of the Government. For instance, the World Health Organisation is being allocated $1,700,000, medical research is to be allocated $9,100,000 and the Royal Flying Doctor Service will get $2m. One sees throughout the Budget papers examples of the Government's generosity. 
I would like to make one important point with regard to Medibank. This point was made by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  during question time this morning. I notice that the Minister is sitting at the table at the moment. It is most important to point out that the modifications to 
Medibank which are being introduced by this Government clearly favour those people most in need. Considering the 3 main options now available to the Australian public, as I said, those people most in need are favoured when a comparison is made of the estimated cost of health care and the levy paid. Those Australians who pay the basic  2Vi  per cent levy will contribute only an estimated 18 per cent of the total cost of their health care. Those people who move up the scale and pay the basic levy plus the fee for private hospital cover will pay only 40 per cent of the total estimated cost of their medical care. Of course, as you move futher up the scale, the people who choose to take out private health insurance, the people on the higher incomes, will have to pay a greater percentage, and rightly so. They will pay 70 per cent of the total estimated cost of their health care. 
In the short time available to me I would like to deal quickly with social security. I have spoken of the Government's generosity in the social security area. Its allocation represents 23.S per cent of the total Budget outlay. But let us look at what might be called the smaller allocations in the context of the total Budget outlay. I refer to such items as the allocation of $ 12m for telephone rental and postal concessions to pensioners. That is a very significant allocation and it is one that certainly should go to those people. We could look at other items, such as the grants to eligible organisations under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act to the extent of $20m, which is a lot of money; grants to eligible organisations under the Aged Persons Hostel Act to the extent of $25m. That is very generous. It is almost as much as my overdraft. 
There is another matter which I wish to mention. I am sure many other honourable members have had experiences similar to mine in recent times, because this is the time when many people in Australia are filling in their tax returns. How many honourable members have been approached recently by pensioners who have received a small additional income, or by people who have received superannuation payments, and who are in the terrible situation of having to pay tax for the first time in their lives. That situation was brought about by the Hayden Budget which was introduced last year, in which concessions which were previously granted were taken away from the Australian people. Of course we all claim the tax rebate of $540. Only now the pensioners of Australia are realising the disaster of that provision in the Hayden Budget. I have some good news for some of those pensioners who have found themselves in the embarrassing situation of having to pay recently a small amount of tax. Many of them have come to my office and I have filled in their tax returns for them. I know that the same thing has happened to many of my colleagues. 
No, I do it on a no-charge basis. There is a difference between the scale worked out by the present Opposition when in government and brought down in the Hayden Budget and the new scale introduced in the Budget that we are discussing tonight. This year people having an income of up to $5,000 a yearthere are many pensioners in that low income bracket- will be gratified to hear that they will pay $88 less in tax. Many of the pensioners who came to my office and other offices, having found that they had to pay some small amount of tax that they could not afford, fell into that category. When a person with a taxable income of $5,000 or less fills out his tax form next year he will find that he is $88 better off. People in the taxable income bracket of $5,000 to $10,000 a year are going to save $ 1 40 in tax. 
That is calculated on the basis of a comparison between this year's tax scales and those of last year. What I am doing is comparing the 2 sets of figures. Let us look a little closer at the Government's generosity. I wish to refer to some figures which have come out only today. I know that my colleagues are elated because once again the figures will please many pensioners. I refer to the new scale which will be applicable as from 1 November and which is also quite generous in the amount of additional income that pensioners may earn before their rate of pension is affected. The new rate of pension for a single pensioner will be $43.50 a week and that single pensioner will be able to earn an additional $20 a week before his rate of pension starts to be affected. Then the concessions scale down in a generous manner. In fact, a single pensioner is able to earn as much as $ 107 a week before he actually loses all pension entitlement. That will help many pensioners. 
The new combined rate of pension for a married couple will be $72.50 a week. That married couple can earn an additional income of $34.50 a week without their rate of pension being affected. I do not know that many pensioners will get down to the bottom end of the scale, but at least the new rates show the generosity of the Government. A married couple can have a combined income of $179.50 a week before they actually lose their pension entitlement. They are the sorts of generous provisions in the Budget which has been introduced by this Government. It is a government that cares for the people of Australia. We realise our responsibility to the Australian people, and we accept the challenge of that responsibility we have to the people. This Government will continue in that manner to the extent that it can afford to do so. It will continue to provide larger pensions and greater benefits for people. We realise, and the people of Australia are going to realise, that we have the welfare of all the people at heart. 
-With my accounting background, one of the nicest things to have in my hand is some figures because figures always tell a story. When we look at the appropriation for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations we find a story in the figures shown there. If we look at the figures for the administrative expenses we find they are down. We have a saving in administrative expenses. That saving goes toward the efficient running that our Government is capable of performing. 
I should like to pick out just the odd item from this Budget apart from increases in some very necessary expenses- those expenses that give a return to the people and to Australia and which are not wasting the people's money. I refer to increased expenditure for studies of productivity action and increases in fares for assistance to persons seeking employment in other areas. All these things go towards helping the people whom the Opposition claims we do not want to help. There is one particular thing in the Estimates though that so far has passed unnoticed. I was reminded of it when the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  used the words 'puny union bashing' and tried to suggest that the Government is anti-unionist. We are certainly not anti-unionist. We want unions to be truly representative of their members. We want unions that can do the right thing and that can improve the wages and working conditions of their members. To back up that statement I refer to Appropriation Bill (No. 1) wherein an allocation is made at page 66 for the Australian Trade Union Training Authority. 
Well I can tell the honourable member that the allocation is twice as much as his Government gave last year.  His  Government allocated $ 1 , 1 30,000 for that item last year and this year we have allocated $2,49 1 ,000. That is an increase of 100 per cent. So if the honourable member is saying that we do not care about unions, I can assure him that there is something in the Budget to prove that we do care. Only today I have been out talking- I know that many other Government supporters have been out talking also- to the ship builders down from Newcastle. I had great pleasure in going out and talking to those people because like other Government supporters I want to hear the other side of the story. I want to hear what their problems are. Although I might not agree with everything they are suggesting, I a; ree with a lot of things they are suggesting. I appreciated having the opportunity to talk to those ship builders from Newcastle today. I should like to put on the record here and now that they are out there doing a very good job for their union. They are decent people and they are prepared to put their case on behalf of their members. I admire that sort of thing. 
I should like to talk about the continual suggestion that we are down on dole bludgers. In every group of people anywhere in Australia there is a bad minority. We do have some dole bludgers. I have met plenty of them, but I have met a lot more people who are not dole bludgers but who have been in the unfortunate position of being out of work. Many of my own friends are out of work and I sympathise with them. We are sympathetic towards people who are out of work. I would like to dwell for one moment on a survey that I conducted in my area. It tells a very interesting story that conflicts greatly with some of the figures that we read on the economy today. I recently canvassed 64 businesses in my electorate of Barton. I have here a list of all their comments and all their names. The results are rather staggering considering present unemployment. Out of the 64 businesses, 26 or 40 per cent of them still have job vacancies. It is also very interesting to note that out of the 64 only 7 admit to having recently retrenched people. I might add that these retrenchments have taken place and have already been recorded in the job figures. The companies concerned do not intend to retrench any further. It is also interesting to note that out of the 64 only 2 have the feeling that further retrenchments will be necessary. Twenty-six or 40 per cent of them have job vacancies still available, but only 2 think that further retrenchments will be necessary. This is fact that shows that the economy is on the mend. 
I come back to the- I hate using the termdole bludgers. They are a very small minority of the unemployed, but a very small minority that gives a bad name to all those genuine people who are out of work and people who want to work. Let me read some of the comments that have come from some of these companies. I will run down them quickly. The first one states: 
People sent from CES not prepared to work. 
Another one states: 
Has had labourers sent from CES who say they don 't want a job. 
They go on:  . . have tried CES and found them hopeless. 
Another one states: 
Usually try through CES but feel only 50 per cent want to work. 
Another one states: 
People sent from CES 'absolute dregs'. 
These are not my comments and I do not necessarily agree with that strong terminology. These are the comments obtained from a survey of businesses. Let me read another one: 
Have tried CES . . . no response. 
I am happy to say that the next two I shall read are good ones because I think in many cases the officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service are trying as hard as they can. The first one states: 
When heavy work load, get people from CES. Have no problem. 
The other states: 
Have a contact at CES and are quite happy with their service. 
Then we come to another bad one, which states: 
People sent from CES don't stay. 
It goes on and on: 
Got bad results from CES. 
Had to phone CES three or four times to get someone suitable. Don 't blame CES. Feel workers are not genuine. 
Have approached CES. Six people sent- four didn't turn up - 
These are the people, a minority group, who are giving the genuine people a bad name. It goes on: 
People sent from CES don't turn up. 
It is quite consistent. Another one states: 
Many sent from CES were not really looking for work. 
This is a good one: 
Got a good storeman through CES. 
In another case a company advertised and sought a labourer through CES. The fellow who turned up had been out of work for 9 months. He was offered $5 above the award but wanted $15, so he would not take the job. He had been out of work for 9 months. Another one states: 
Don 't use CES any more. People sent from them were not looking for work. 
Another one states: 
People from CES last one day only (don't really want job). 
Another good one states: 
Find CES quite good. Got 5 unskilled workers this week. 
This small minority group that through unemployment has got into the habit of not wanting work is spoiling it for the good people. I think we have to tighten up security. We have to find this small minority group. We have to utilise our facilities better to find jobs for the majority of people out of work and who genuinely want to work. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, is supplementary to the question asked early this afternoon by the honourable member for Bowman regarding the committee appointed to inquire into the high cost of nursing homes. Is the Minister aware that the delay in the presentation of the report until next month may mean that it will be too late to assist many hundreds of pensioner patients who will be forced from nursing homes due to the fart that they can no longer meet the fees for their accommodation? Is he also aware that some nursing homes will have to close, leaving many pensioners without any alternative accommodation? Will he consider taking immediate emergency action pending a final decision on the report of the committee? 
-To a certain extent it is pleasing at least to find that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  at least has some knowledge on this subject, although I do not agree with many of the points that he made. It is rather a pleasant surprise because until the speech of the honourable member I had sat here and wondered whether members of the Opposition really knew anything about this subject. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  must go down as the worst mathematician in this Parliament. He worked out some figures and with regular monotony came up with quite the wrong answers.  His  arithmetic was terribly hard to follow. One of the main statements he made was that personal income tax was not a growth tax. I think it was the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  who earlier this afternoon pointed out that under Labor's rule income tax went up 300 per cent. It is hard to imagine anything rising 300 per cent and not being a growth tax. 
Let me refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  He was amazed, as I am, that the Opposition said that this Bill has not had sufficient airing. I would quickly like to go over what he said. This matter first came up at the Premiers Conference in February this year- a considerable time ago. Since February Premiers Conferences have been held in April and June. It is rather staggering to note that the Premiers of all the States at each of those 3 conferences substantially agreed with this Government's federalism policy. This is quite remarkable after reading some of the Press articles that stated that some Premiers were against our federalism policies. It might be noted that as a result of those 3 Premiers Conferences, particularly as a result of the first Premiers Conference in February, many working parties of Commonwealth and State officials have been set up to look at some of the initial principles set down in the Premiers Conference in February, but none of the principles have been altered. Only minor alterations have been made to the details since the Premiers Conference. Yet members of the Opposition have moved an amendment to stop the Bill going through. They say that the people concerned need more time to assess it. 
I know that federalism is something new. It is something that has been difficult for many people to comprehend. But, of course, federalism is something quite revolutionary and something very new. We have not any previous comparison upon which to judge it. It is not often that a government brings in something so revolutionary as this with which no comparison can be made. Of course, I disagree with the honourable member for Chifley. Federalism is related to the Bill before us at the moment- the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill- and income tax sharing. It is the sharing of a growth tax. It is a system that automatically distributes increasing amounts of tax among local governments because that is so necessary to retain what is lost through inflation. That is a pretty fair way of giving back to the people in local governmentthe government that the honourable member for Shortland agrees is the government closest to the people. 
It is necessary to make sure that those people are lifted beyond the fighting of politics and automatically receive a fair share of income that they deserve. I would be quite amazed if members, alderman or councillors of local government listening to the Opposition speakers tonight could agree with what they have been saying. I know that honourable members on this side of the chamber have had many conferences with people associated with local government authorities in their areas. I have had many conferences with representatives of the municipalities of Rockdale, Kogarah and Hurstville in my area. I know that these people are elated with the surprisingly large amount of money that they have received under this new income tax sharing scheme. I think that one of the best things people can do is to make themselves conversant with the contents of Budget Paper No. 7, which relates to payments to the States and local government authorities. 
The honourable member for Denison said that Opposition members have not read it. I am inclined to agree with him. I do not think that they have. Turning to Budget Paper No. 7, we see on page 101 reference to grants to the States for on-passing as general purpose assistance for local government authorities. Of course, the amount involved has been bandied around a great deal tonight. In the year 1976-77, there is a total amount of $ 140m going to local government under this category. I might add by way of comparison that last year, 1975-76, under the same general purpose revenue grants local government throughout Australia received only $79.9m. The year before, local government received $5 6m. 
My colleague the honourable member for Berowra has asked what percentage increase that is. It is a 75 per cent increase. One thing that also tells the story from Budget Paper No. 7 is some of the other money that goes to local government. This same Budget Paper details some of the other money that goes to our State governments. It tells the story of money that comes from the Federal Governmentfrom our Government here- to State and local government for distribution under the block grants or specific purpose grants. So often, State governments particularly jump on the bandwagon and say that the money came from them. If honourable members can bear with me for a short time on this subject relating to local government, some of the people listening may be surprised to learn that the Federal Government gives block grants direct to local government for some of the following purposes: Pre-school and child care services grants are made direct to local government authorities as set out on page 103 of Budget Paper No. 7. This year, 1976-77, we are allocating for distribution by local government authorities an amount of $6.3m. 
The honourable member for Shortland says, 'what a magnificent amount'. But let me tell him how much his Government gave to local government last year for this purpose. The amount was $2.4m. We almost trebled that amount but the honourable member says, What a magnificent amount'. Let me turn over and go into the matter a little further. Let us see whether the honourable member for Shortland wants to make any further comments. Under the heading of grants made direct to local government authorities for home nursing, we have given $199m. Last year, the Government to which the honourable member for Shortland belonged gave $163m. Let us look at another area: Grants made direct to local government authorities for expenditure on aged and disabled persons homes, a social welfare subject very dear to my heart and an area in which many people in my electorate of Barton have need. This year, we have allocated $3. 4m for expenditure in this area. Last year, the Labor Government allocated $2.7m. Honourable members opposite are supposed to be the people who look after those in need. These figures show that we are looking after them. Another area is that of grants to local government authorities under the Aged Persons Hostels Act. This year, an amount of $ 1.4m has been made available. Do honourable members know how much the Labor Government made available last year? It was a miserable $360,000. We have increased that grant by 400 per cent. Another grant made to local government authorities is for delivered meals or meals on wheels, as many people know the service. This year we have allocated $670,000; last year the amount was $5 11,000. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Prime Minister Will he state the Government's attitude on wages policy? Is the Government in favour of full wage indexation? 
I wish to raise a problem that has developed throughout my electorate over the last 2 months. I have no doubt that many other members are experiencing the same difficulty in their electorates. 
No, it is not unemployment. The problem which I raise revolves around the attitude of banks, and particularly bank managers who are using the Federal Government as an excuse when refusing people loans. I should like to state briefly the Government's policy in this respect. The Federal Government is not restricting banks in lending money. What is happening is that bank managers who have little backbone, who are hesitant to say no to customers requests and who are not prepared to say that a loan does not fall within the category of their banks are saying: 'I am sorry, the Government will not let us lend any money'. They say that instead of coming out and giving a true and honest answer. 
Let me explain what the Government's policy has been in this respect. The Government, through the Reserve Bank, has asked the trading banks of Australia voluntarily to restrict their lending to $100m per month. I might add that that is a pretty generous sort of limit, because when the banks lent money unchecked a few months ago the highest monthly amount lent was $109m and the average was $100m a month. So the Reserve Bank has instructed the trading banks to keep their lending to around the average of $ 100m a month. The figures show that the banks have the money and that they are still lending, but I am concerned about a possible change that could take place in their lending pattern. We all know that today banks have hire purchase subsidiaries. A person who goes along to a bank to borrow a small amount of money is immediately directed into the personal loan area or is advised to arrange a loan from the bank's hire purchase subsidiary, in which case he has to pay interest of between 16 per cent and 18 per cent. I would like to see a fair thing done for the public of Australia and people on the other side of the House are not always willing to do that. 
I do not know whether many people realise that banks are not restricted by the interest rate that is determined by the Reserve Bank when they lend large sums of money. I think that they are not restricted above $75,000. However, below $75,000 they are restricted to the standard trading bank interest rates. Therefore, there is a willingness on the part of banks to lend large sums of money and to neglect small businesses, people who want to do alterations to their homes and people who do not qualify for the savings bank loan but who want to buy homes. There is a tendency for banks to neglect the small people and to lend money out in larger amounts where they can get marginally higher interest rates. 
Although banks probably would not admit it, there is a tendency for them to lend larger sums of money because they have the same amount of overhead whether they lend $100,000 or $10,000. Therefore, banks prefer to lend the larger amounts because the same amount of time is spent signing papers as is spent with lending smaller amounts. 
I am doing something now. I am telling the Australian public not to accept the assertion by their bank managers that the Federal Government has stopped them lending money. I want to tell the Australian people that the money is available. The Government has not placed restrictions on lending. The next time that bank managers are asked for a loan I ask them to have a little more backbone, to explain the truth to their customers and not to hide behind the assertion that the Government will not let them lend money. The banks are not terribly restricted. The restrictions by which they are bound are quite generous. There is no credit squeeze. There is plenty of money for the Aus.tralian people. It is just that this money is not going to the small person or the small business. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Will he assure all Australians that no credit squeeze is planned? What restrictions are currently applied by the Reserve Bank to Australian trading banks and financial institutions? Will the Government be monitoring closely the liquidity of trading banks during the remainder of the financial year 1976-77, when large amounts of funds will drain from their deposits for the purpose of taxation payments? 
I was sitting in the chamber when the third last  speaker,  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  was speaking and I thought I was experiencing a nightmare. He was predicting all the gloom in the world for the future of Australia. I think he was making his speech for a forthcoming election which he may have to contest. Perhaps he was making himself out to be something like that character who is known as the mild mannered reporter from the  Daily Planet. 
I want to tell the Australian people the truth about that speech and the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  who spoke about the straw which will break the camel's back. He predicted gloom and jealousy for the private sector and mentioned the need to build up the public sector. He does not realise that taxes from the private sector support him and the public sector. I talk to the people of Australia tonight- hopefully, some of them are listening in their cars as they are driving home from work- to tell them that the future does not hold all the gloom which has been predicted by the previous 2 speakers from the Opposition benches. 
There are 2 very important sections in the Speech of  Her  Majesty which was made here last Tuesday afternoon. One section has already been referred to by my colleague, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury).  I shall mention these 2 small sections to honourable members.  Her  Majesty stated: 
Australia has experienced economic difficulties in recent years; my Government has given first priority to restoring the economy and will use all the resources at its disposal to achieve this goal. 
Later, in the speech, Her Majesty said: 
My Government is not only taking action to restore the economy, it is also making social reforms which are of fundamental importance to the freedom and well-being of the Australian people. 
This Government is concerned not only with business and the future of our economy but also with people. When we look at our record in the last 15 months and consider what has been achieved, we see that we have accomplished many things which honourable members on the Opposition benches could not achieve when in government. An example is an automatic adjustment of pensions. The Opposition had the opportunity to do this. We did it. In a few weeks' time the 1.5 million pensioners throughout Australia will receive a rise of 8.2 per cent in their pensions. Yet the Opposition is supposed to be the Party which cares for people like pensioners and people in need. Did the Labor Party take this action? It had the opportunity. In our first 15 months in government we have given automatic increases to pensioners. We have not stopped there. I ask: What about tax indexation and our generosity in that respect? This year tax indexation will give the people of Australia $ 1,100m discount in taxes. Honourable members opposite laugh when I talk about that. While they were in power they increased taxes at a far greater rate than had ever happened in Australia before. This Government is not stopping at tax indexation. As recently announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  we are now firmly committed to look at tax reform. This is another advantage that the people of Australia will experience in the near future. I might add also that the Whitlam Government absolutely refused tax indexation. Its greed to obtain more money stopped it from making this decision. It needed the money to spend. It was not prepared to give anything back to the people of Australia. 
We have achieved other things in the last IS months. The alteration in the distribution requirements of small private companies shows our sincerity towards small business. The fact that small private companies are now allowed to retain more of their profits for capital expansion has certainly alleviated some of the problems that built up during the previous 3 years before this Government came to power. I refer also to the investment allowance. The list is endless. The point is that we still have promises to fulfill which will give to the Australian people many more advantages. The Australian economy is not in the gloomy situation that it has been made out to be in by members of the Opposition. 
I turn now to one other recent decision which the Government has made and which I feel will be of tremendous advantage to the Australian people. I refer to devaluation. The Opposition criticised it. I am brave enough to stand up and tell the Australian people about the advantages that they will receive from devaluation. Honourable members opposite have backed it both ways. Before we devalued they were predicting it. After we made that brave decision and devalued they were criticising us for it. The decision to devalue was made in order to give a very quick domestic advantage to the Australian local industry. In our decision to devalue we were concerned for the unemployed people of Australia. Devaluation was one of those measures that would give the greatest and the quickest boost to the domestic economy. I suggest that shortly people will see the result of devaluation. They will see the revitalisation of Australian industry. They will see more Australian goods from Australian industry produced and sold. Those industries in particular which have been experiencing great problems with imported goods over the last few years will gain relief. 
I come now to the attitudes of some of the Australian people as to what they expect from the economy today. The Opposition continually says that unemployment is high, inflation is high and interest rates are high. If honourable members opposite and the Australian people look at the various components of the consumer price index they will see that we have arrested inflation. It is true that we have not brought it down to the level at which we want it to be but we have stopped it from spiralling upwards. Honourable members should look at a graph of the CPI. Let me run through some of the past performances of the CPI. Remember that when Labor came into office it was 3.6 per cent. Let us start off at December 1974 and see how this Government has arrested the growth in the CPI. The figures are as follows: 16.2 per cent; 16.7 per cent; 16.2 per cent; 16.7 per cent; 16.8 per cent; and now we have it down to 14.4 per cent. That includes the Medibank levy. There is some debate as to whether it should be included in the CPI. Without it the figure is 10.8 per cent. We do not intend to rest at 10.8 per cent, but it is rather like the tide. I do not know whether any honourable members have ever stood on a breakwater at the mouth of a river and watched the tide come in and go out. It flows in and it stops for 2 hours before it can flow out. That is exactly what we have done with the economy. We have stopped the trend and shortly we will turn the economy for the betterment of the people of Australia. I have here statistics from the Reserve Bank of Australia relating to the trend in interest rates since June 1972. we all know that interest rates came from an average level of about  Vh  per cent in that time. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was about to make my point in regard to the movement of interest rates since this Government has been in power. When Labor came to power in 1972 we left an economy with interest rates running at about 7 1/2 per cent per annum, a rate that seems pie in the sky today. The average interest rate peaked at 11  'A  per cent about 12 months ago and now the average interest rate charged by banks is down to about 10'A per cent. This is just another of the factors I was mentioning which indicate that we have levelled off the economy, and we must level the economy before we can achieve any decline in inflation in the way which is best for the country. 
Let me come now to unemployment. The Leader of the Opposition in his smearing speech which was unfortunately aimed at the honour.able member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  spoke about unemployment. There have been some reports in the Press recently and some rumours floated by the Opposition about this Government's attitude to unemployment. The Government sympathises with all Australians who are genuinely out of work and it is concerned that there are not enough jobs available for them. It has shown this sympathy in the last 2 days by indicating that recipients of the unemployment benefit will have passed on to them the full 8.2 per cent rise in the consumer price index. However, we are against those people who are receiving the unemployment benefit fraudulently. We are not against the person who is genuinely unemployed but there are some unscrupulous people receiving the unemployment benefit which they do not deserve, thereby robbing Australian taxpayers of their money and robbing other people in genuine need to whom these funds rightly should be going. My colleague the honourable member for Eden-Monaro mentioned in his speech that last year Australia had a real rise in gross national product, a feat that was not accomplished in the preceding 2 years. Surely this is an indication that the economy is turning rather than an indication of the dreadful gloom mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
In the short time I have left I want to talk about the present and the future, and in particular about an article in a recent report by the Australian Industries Development Association. This article went to many firms and businesses throughout Australia and asked them for their predictions. It posed the question: "Theoretically what would happen if you had a 10 per cent rise in productivity? How many more people could you employ?' Unfortunately, the answer is only 2 per cent. That leads me to another matter. Just what are the Australian people looking for? With what are they trying to compare the economy today? Subconsciously, when people say that the economy is crook, they are really comparing it with the boom of 1973. We do not want a boom like the boom of 1973 when things were out of control. There were too many job vacancies and the only people who were unemployed were those who were not able to work. We do not want a boom of that magnitude again because there can be only a recession afterwards. We are looking for something steadier than that. We are looking for a steady increase, something which we can sustain and which will not be followed by a recession. I also want to talk about changing demands. It will be realised that over the years in Australia demands change. There are many industries today that are in decline and there are many that are booming. When one looks at them one sees the different phases through which they have passed. 
I have no doubt that back in 1937 or 1938, a manufacturer of ice chests would have thought that business was crook because refrigerators were coming in. I refer to the plastics industry which has developed in post-war years and to the items which are now manufactured of plastic but which were formerly manufactured of other products. Toys used to be made of tin, small items were made of bakelite and pieces of equipment were made of rubber. They are all made of plastic today. I do not have the slightest doubt that if one asked someone in the plastics industry about his business and about the economy, he would say that they were great. But if one asked the same question of a manufacturer who made something out of bakelite or tin or rubber, he would say that the economy is crook because we all tend to judge the economy from our own little backyard, those things that affect us. But that is not the indicator. What do we expect of the economy? We do not want a boom of 1973 again. There will always be some industries that are having hard times. I refer to someone in the marine industry who manufactures fibre glass boats. That has affected people who manufactured plywood boats previously. There is a continual change in demand, and irrespective of the state of the economy there will always be some particular industries that are declining. 
The gloom predicted by the Opposition is not there. Unfortunately Australia will have unemployment for some time. That is not disgraceful. It is disgraceful for those poor people who want jobs, but when Australia is compared with West Germany, America and Canada which have booming industries it is found that those countries have a greater unemployment problem than Australia, This does not mean that we do not want to get industry moving or that we do not want to get jobs for the Australian people, but it is a fact of life that unemployment is unfortunately one of the parts of the modern everyday economy. Australia is not in the doldrums. The Australian economy has a future. We have rounded the corner and stopped the spiralling inflation rates. We have stopped increasing numbers of people from becoming unemployed and we have stopped interest rates from rising. We are at the point I mentioned before about the tide. The tide has been flowing out and it has to stop for a little while before it will flow the other way. It cannot go out and come straight back in again. We have Australia in the position at which we have stopped the tide flowing. Shortly we will be able to make it flow the other way. 
I started my speech by referring to 2 parts of Her Majesty's Speech. A quotation of one of the opening paragraphs of her Speech will make a fitting conclusion to my remarks. She said: 
Today the qualities of the Australian people, the character of Australian society and the resources of the Australian continent hold out a great promise and a great challenge. 
Those words are very true, but unfortunately not all Australians realise how true they are. We do have a future. Australians have a future and a confidence under the guidance of the Fraser Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
I, too, rise to support the generosity of the Australian Government in this Bill which allocates $34.6m as its contribution this year to the Asian Development Bank. I am pleased too that members of the Opposition are supporting this Bill. This is one of the humane occasions of political life on which we are able to support proposals that contribute to and help the economies of other people who are in greater need than the people of this country. 
Australia's contribution was originally allocated in the 1976-77 Budget. I have heard criticism from people, including some members of the Opposition, that Australia is not giving enough in overseas aid. Nevertheless, we are giving a greater amount year by year. Certainly, we gave a greater amount in 1976-77 than had previously been given. I would like to read just one section from Budget Paper No. 8 entitled Australia's Official Development Assistance to Developing Countries 1976-77 which illustrates the generosity of this country. It states: 
The Government 's commitment to assist developing countries is reflected in its decision to increase Australia's aid program for 1976-77 by IS per cent at a time when the growth in public expenditure is being curtailed. 
That is quite generous. It further states: 
The total provision for Australia 's official development assistance (ODA) in 1976-77 is $398,504,000. 
That is almost $400m. It continues: 
This is estimated to represent 0.49 per cent of the forecast gross national product for that year, which compares with the average for member countries of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development . . . 
Their average, of course, was 0.36 per cent. We have gone a long way towards fulfilling our aim of providing 0.5 per cent of our GNP by way of assistance. Hopefully next year we will be able to achieve that goal. 
Australia has a very proud record in regard to the contribution it makes to the Asian Development Bank which is the subject of this Bill. I say that notwithstanding the fact that Australia also contributes to other similar banks, such as the World Bank, that are dedicated to helping countries in need. The Asian Development Bank is only one of the three or four banks to which we contribute. Our record is the same in respect to this Bank. 
It is worth while noting the 1975 annual report of the Asian Development Bank. I fully realise that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has presented some figures from the 1976 quarterly report of the Bank. However, the annual report to which I refer points out very well the aims of the Bank. It also points out in its opening remarks the recognition that it takes of the economic problems that many of its member countries had in 1975. No doubt the same situation exists today. The report states:  . . most of the Bank's developing member countries (DMCs) suffered severely from the effects of world-wide recession, inflation and widening trade imbalances, and these effects will be felt to an even greater degree in future years. In addressing itself to its members' needs and problems, many of which are of a long-term nature, the Bank's efforts were directed to: 
raising urgently needed additional resources to sustain its operations - 
That is very necessary- 
maintaining the momentum of its lending and technical assistance activities and (iii) bringing its assistance to bear where the needs appeared to be greatest. 
I agree very strongly with the third point because it really covers the reason for its establishment, namely, to provide funds to people who under normal circumstances, through normal financial institutions and normal banking avenues would have difficulty in raising funds to meet their needs. The report further states: 
Much of the lending in 1975 was directed to sectors where the need for accelerated development was most urgent- 37 per cent to agriculture and agriculture-related activities and 29 per cent to public utilities . . . 
This, of course, is mainly for power projects in these countries about which we have seen much publicity lately. The report goes on to talk about disbursements during the year. 
A look at the record of the member countries of the Bank shows that Australia has performed outstandingly. On average each of the 41 member countries provides  Vh  per cent of the Bank's capital. But Australia accepts a far greater contribution than the average obligation. It subscribes 12 per cent of the total capital of the Bank. Australia is making a very generous and worthwhile gesture when we consider that a country of our size subscribes 12 per cent of the capital when the average is  2Vi  per cent. 
The Asian Development Bank has been operating for only nine or ten years. Therefore it is relatively in its infancy. The Bank financed only 7 projects in 1 968 which was the first year of its operation. But 9 years later the number of projects financed by the Bank grew to 228. In 1975 the total amount in terms of loans on projects had grown to $2,500m. The figures presented by the honourable member for Hughes in respect of the quarterly report of the Bank for 1 976 show that the amount is now over $3,000m. So we can see that the Bank has a very healthy growth rate. 
I will not go through the list of member countries and the contributions they make because this aspect of the Bill has been covered adequately by previous speakers. However, members of the public listening to this debate and certainly some members of this House will no doubt think that 41 member countries sounds a lot, even in a world-wide context. Notwithstanding that, 41 countries do not really go a long way when one looks at the Asian and Pacific areas. It is rather surprising how many countries there are in these regions. The list is quite impressive. Of course, outside of Japan, Australia is making the greatest contribution. 
Members of Parliament- this happens in my electorate and no doubt it happens in the electorates of many other honourable members- are approached consistently by good Australian people who ask us to try to persuade our Government to put more money into Australian assistance to overseas countries. This year we haverightly so- directed much of our overseas money towards New Guinea. This does not mean that we have neglected other Asian countries. New Guinea is a developing country. It has recently gained its independence and it is to this country that the bulk of the money should go. 
In supporting this Bill I certainly commend the Government, as I have done already. I would like to tell the Australian people that this Government does not intend to stop with a contribution of 0.49 per cent of our gross national product towards overseas aid. We want to get it up to the target of 0.5 per cent. The Government is genuine in wanting to assist countries in need. But is should be borne in mind that, as the report suggested, when we have economic problems as we do at the moment- they are not of a serious nature- we must give money in an organised manner and it must be money that we can afford without placing great burdens and strains on the Australian taxpayer and without taking funds from other sections of the Australian community where money is needed also. So we recognise that there is need in Asian countries for funds. At the same time there is some need at home among the people of Australia. Although we will follow the policy of increasing this amount of funds, it must be done in an organised way. I know that the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  wants to follow me with figures in more detail. So I simply say that I support the Government on this Bill. I thank the Opposition for supporting it. The money will go to good use. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Transport, is in regard to recent reports on the letting to Japan of a tender for a dry dock for Newcastle. Was the Minister involved in negotiations for the building of the dry dock by the New South Wales Government? Can the Minister inform the House who took the decision to have the dry dock built in Japan? 
-The 2 Bills before the House are the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1976-77, which seeks approval for additional expenditure of $247,476,100, and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1976-77, which seeks approval for expenditure of $78,596,600. These Bills were before the House last Thursday. It is important that both of these Bills be taken into consideration with the recent savings and improved efficiencies instituted by the Fraser Government, particularly in the field of administration. Savings of $407m offset these 2 Appropriation Bills. When one examines the details of some of the expenditures proposed in these 2 Bills, one realises the tremendous job that this Government has been doing in providing additional facilities and additional worthwhile programs for the people of Australia. After looking briefly through the Appropriation Bills, I am proud of the additional expenditure- I pick out one item only- that the Government has provided for education. Under the heading of Student Assistance Programs' provision is made for an allocation of about $32. 5m additional to what was previously approved for education spending. Of course, much of this money will go to the tertiary education assistance scheme and recent rises announced by the Government. Some people, when examining these 2 Bills, take fright at the additional expenditure for defence. The item of about $63m, which is appropriated for additional defence expenditure, must be viewed in context and regard must be had to a similar amount which has been saved in deferred capital expenditure on defence. 
Of course, both of these Bills revolve around the economy and they typify the excellent way in which this Government is handling the economy in the face of much criticism that seems to be levelled at it quite unfairly. Only recently I was reading an article on the economy by an American professor of economics. It is good to be reminded of some of the history of world inflation and some of the history of inflaton that is causing some of the problems of today. This particular article referred briefly to some of the economic problems facing countries at the times of the Roman and Egyptian empires. It particularly followed the history of inflation in the United States in the last 200 or 300 years. After reading this article, I am in no doubt that basically inflation is caused by governments. If we examine the history of inflation in the United States, we find that every time a particular government ran a deficit, inflation followed. Usually a deficit is run in time of war. At the time the United States fought wars its government ran a deficit to finance that war and it printed money to do this. One can see the pattern of inflation coming out time and time again. 
I turn now to Australia's current pattern of deficits and inflation. As all honourable members well know, the policies of the previous government caused massive inflation in the years 1 974 and 1 975. As people have heard from time to time, when the Labor Government was in office the deficit reached $5,000m but our Government reduced it to about $4,000m. That large deficit in 1974-75 was preceded by a high deficit in the previous year. Of course, Australia built up a tremendous deficit. For the same reason as inflation is caused through deficits in other countries, massive inflation was caused in Australia. Our Government now has the task of pulling that deficit back into gear and of trying to balance the Budget. This year, hopefully, we will be able to reduce that deficit to between $2.6 billion and $3 billion which will be a considerable improvement on last year's deficit. When an irresponsible government has run such a large deficit and pumped all that money into the economy, it would be soul destroying for the people of Australia if, all of a sudden, this Government tried to balance its Budget a year after such accumulated deficits existed. The best this Government can do is to taper down the deficit gradually. As we taper it down inflation will improve. The rate of inflation will improve and. once again, Australia will be able to get back to a balanced Budget and a sensible rate of inflation. 
Of course, many people, without giving much thought to the matter, still criticise this Government and say that we have not yet brought inflation under control. As I mentioned when speaking in another debate in this House, inflation is like the tide when it comes in and out. It cannot be flowing one way and then, all of sudden, be made to flow the other way. It has to stop for a little while. If we follow the quarterly trend of our inflation rate since March 1975 and calculate it on annual rates, we find that in March 1 975 the annual rate of inflation was 17.6 per cent; in June it was 16.9 per cent; and it gradually decreased from 14.4 per cent to 13.6 per cent. The current rate of inflation for the March quarter that has just ended was 2.3 per cent. This was very good news. When people say that this Government does not have inflation under control, they are being unfair to the Government because the rate of inflation has decreased. We have passed the stage of the tide stopping; it is now starting to flow the other way and the news is good for the people of Australia. As we get the deficit down, so will the inflation rate come down. 
Many people, of course, are concerned as to how the Government will cope with the deficit that exists and how it will be financed. In light of the problems we have had, this Government has been extremely generous to the people of Australia. For example, in the last 12 months the Government has provided tax cuts to the people. Items that include large amounts of expenditure tend to go unnoticed. This Government has brought in tax indexation at a cost of $ 1,100m. This means that the people of Australia, when they come to fill out their taxation returns in August, will get a 13 per cent discount on the tax rate. This Government has introduced an investment allowance and has promised to bring in legislation concerning trading stock valuation which will be brought before the House shortly. When we look at those initiatives and at the easing of the distribution requirements to private companies, the new family allowances, the automatic adjustment to pensions in Australia and particularly at the incentives that this Government has created, we find that Australians are being given back $2,000m. One might ask in view of the fact that we have a deficit of $2.6 billion- I know that honourable members opposite would ask this- how the Government is going to give $2,000m back to the people of Australia and still control the deficit? 
Let me tell honourable members how the Government will achieve this. First, we will have economic policies that are expansionary and good for Australia. That is exactly what our generosity in providing these costly incentives to the people will do. As I said at a meeting the other day, Australia is not unlike any other business. A business, of course, makes sales and has expenses but, if the expenses can be kept below the revenue from sales, there will be some sort of profit. Australia is not unlike a business except that in Australia the Government does not look for a profit. It tries to return all the profit to the people. With a deficit of $2.6 billion we can overcome our problems by increasing sales from Australia. Many people study the gross domestic product. The growth rate in the gross domestic product in Australia recently has been healthy. Twelve months ago Australia's gross domestic product, which to put it in business terms is the sales of Australia, was $69 billion. 
When I look at the current monthly review of business statistics put out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, I see that according to the quarterly growth rates in gross domestic product, on my calculations this year the total figure should come out at about $82 billion. That means that in 12 months Australia has increased its sales from $69 billion to an estimated $82 billion. Let me do a few quick calculations to estimate Government revenues this year from this source. Australia's revenue derives from the various forms of taxation including excise duties and the like. The Government collects 28 per cent of Australia's gross domestic product- Australia's sales level- in the form of tax collections. So, we can see that when Australia can increase its total sales or its gross domestic product from $69 billion to $82 billion, the Government will get 28 per cent of that in the form of taxation. With a gross domestic product increase of about $12 billion, approximately $3.5 billion will go to the Government. 
I say to those people listening now that there is no trouble in eventually overcoming the present economic situation. There is no reason for Australians, business people of Australia particularly, to walk around with their tails between their legs. This Government has announced that it will hold Government expenditure, in real terms, to its present level. If we can hold Government expenditure for a couple of years and, at the same time through the use of expansionary policies, build up Australia's gross domesticproduct, the deficit will automatically rectify itself. So, people can look forward to the future with confidence. The signs for confidence are there. Many such signs have been emerging for some time and are still emerging. Only last Friday in the  Australian Financial Review  there was an article headed: 'Long-awaited building upturn could be appearing'. I shall quote a few paragraphs of the article. It states: 
The recovery in the non-house building part of the construction industry . . . could be making its appearance. 
Figures on actual building commencements prepared by building industry economists . . . show a sharp increase in the March, 1 977, quarter for the Sydney region- 
Of course this is the worst hit area in Australia. That news,  Mr Acting Speaker,  has a lot of significance. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the recently announced joint economic statement put forward by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Oxley. What are the main differences between that proposal and the Budget brought down by the Treasurer last Tuesday night? 
-I am delighted to have the opportunity tonight to talk in this debate. The debate in May in which I hoped to talk fell short because the Opposition ran out of speakers. I appreciate the further time that I have had to study the uranium issue. I am well satisfied that in the time between May and today's date I have been able to pick up considerably more information on it which has had a great bearing on my decision. It is an issue on which I have tried to keep an open mind. I must admit that not long before May, through ignorance, I had not quite decided what was right and what was wrong for Australia and the people of Australia. But now I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that there is no doubt in my mind about the decision that has been taken by the Government today. 
I strongly support the mining of uranium and realise that previously, as I said, I was not equipped with sufficient facts. For these reasons I was being drawn towards a feeling that there should be no mining of uranium. I suggest that most dissenting members of the Australian public today form their opinion also with a lack of knowledge and in ignorance. When I have had discussions on uranium with people in the street and at meetings I have found that once I supply some information they are only too ready to admit that they did not have sufficient information and they were really against mining uranium because of their ignorance. 
There is also much confusion amongst the Australian public. Really people should be looking at three separate issues. One of course is the mining of uranium in Australia; one is the possible use of nuclear power in Australia; and the other is what happens if Australia is used for the storage of nuclear waste. I think people who come up with a no answer are combining these three issues, and it not necessary to do so. We are concerned only with the mining of uranium. Australia has little need for the use of nuclear power plants simply because we are blessed with an abundance of coal. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated today and as he has stated repeatedly, Australia will not be used as a storage country for other people 's nuclear waste. 
When we talk about the abundance of coal in Australia it is rather interesting to note the fact that because of this abundance of coal throughout the eastern States it would be uneconomical for nuclear power stations ever to be used. As is outlined in the speech delivered by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  today nuclear energy is the only viable alternative that most countries have available to meet their essential needs of electrical energy in the wake of the oil crisis. He goes on to point out: 
At the present time 184 nuclear power plants are in operation in 20 countries- 
Of course, this includes countries such as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and countries behind the Iron Curtain. The Deputy Prime Minister goes on to say, when dealing with this program of nuclear power stations: 
There are 214 nuclear power units now under construction. 
This will expand the number of countries with nuclear power stations to twenty-seven. He goes on to say: 
In addition 102 units are on firm order- 
This further expands the number of nuclear units throughout the world. Those people who are against the mining of uranium differ very greatly in their opinions with those held in most other countries. This program is under way. There is a vast number of nuclear power stations operating and under construction. I guess that, in terms of the world's reserves of uranium, although Australia is an important supplier of uranium, had we made a decision not to mine uranium, it would have had no effect whatsoever on the world's use of and projection into nuclear power stations. 
The stories that have been told in Australia would tend to form the opinion that Australia is the only country with uranium supplies. Let us look at the uranium deposits of the world. Admittedly, they will depend upon what price bracket the uranium to be mined is put into. But looking at uranium mining as most people do, it can be mined for $30 per lb or less. In that case, Australia has between 16 per cent and 20 per cent of the known world deposits of uranium. If we accept that mining figure of $30 per lb of uranium, we find that Australia has about 16 per cent of known reserves, Canada has about 20 per cent, South Africa about 16 or 17 per cent, Sweden has roughly 20 per cent, the United States of America has roughly 22 per cent and there are considerable deposits in Niger in Africa and Gabon in Africa and in France. Honourable members can see that if Australia were foolish enough to say that there would be no mining of uranium, it would make no difference on how the world would use uranium. 
It is important also to bring into some relativity the amount of energy contained in uranium. Of course, it is expressed in many different terms. It is interesting to note that a single tonne of uranium has the same energy potential as 3,000,000 tonnes of coal or 12 million barrels of oil. We have some difficulty in fully comprehending what millions and billions are when we continue to talk in these terms today. So let us talk about this subject in another way. An egg cup full of uranium has about the same energy power as 10 semi-trailer loads of coal. Alternatively, 4 oz of uranium will totally supply the energy requirements of a normal household for a 12-month period. Honourable members can see the different in the potential of energy obtained from uranium and from other normal energy supplies such as coal and oil. 
Members of the Opposition have said that the Government has not given enough time for the uranium debate. As many previous speakers in the debate have said, the uranium issue really started in Australia in 1954. It ceased in 1963 and picked up again a few years later. Programs on uranium mining were well advanced in 1972. It is obvious from the statement presented to Parliament today by the  Deputy  Prime Minister that the Whitlam Government, now the Opposition, always intended to develop uranium deposits. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  said today that the Opposition had changed its mind. One has only to read the statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister today to see that it shows clearly, step by step, that the plans of the Labor Government were quite concrete and its intention, as I said, quite obvious. 
Recently I had the opportunity to visit the atomic energy plant at Lucas Heights in Sydney. I was rather staggered by the fact that the hundreds of people working there- top scientists, people who really know about uranium and nuclear energy, responsible people- just cannot understand what all the flap is about. We are exposed daily to hundreds of activities with many times greater risks and danger than nuclear power. One has only to look at some af the unfortunate things that happen. There is the danger of petrol in cars. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  proved this when he spoke about the dangers of cars and industrial accidents. Daily we expose ourselves to hundreds of activities with far greater risk than uranium. The decision taken today is embodied in the best planned documents ever presented to this Parliament. I refer to the documents that were presented today. In my short stay here and in the many years that I have followed parliamentary procedure, I cannot recall anything so well planned as the documents that came forward today. 
I support the Government in its statement that commercial considerations were not the dominant motive. In trying to assess the situation I have tried to keep the commercial consideration out and look at it from a moral point of view. It surely must pave the way for Australia to lead the world in nuclear guidelines. I am sure that when one looks at those guidelines one will agree with that. The strict guidelines brought into this Parliament by the Prime Minister last May add to all the safeguards and security that Australia is imposing on its exports of uranium. Whilst I say that the decision was made on moral grounds- I repeat that- we would be foolish if we did not consider some of the economic advantages that will obviously flow from this decision. As honourable members know, the Northern Territory, where these deposits are situated, is a vast stretch of land with a small population. Recently a German politician visited the area and the question was asked: 'If you were in Australia, what would be your greatest concern?' He said: 'If I were an Australian living in Australia I would be concerned as to who would occupy the vast unused land'. 
Once again, when one looks at the statement brought forward by the Deputy Prime Minister today, one sees clearly the economic advantage that will come to the Northern Territory and to Australia. It clearly shows the tremendous estimates of renewed employment in that area. It talks of employing an additional 20,000 people. This, of course, would be in about the year 2000. If one looks at the Canadian experience and at the number of other industries and people employed in supporting industries as a result of the mining operations in Canada, one sees that the estimate of 20,000 can easily grow to the employment of 100,000 people. This is exactly what we want. We want our people to be employed and we want population to go to that part of our land. 
One thing we often overlook is the advantage of such a decision as this to the person in the street. We tend to become complacent and forget about improving standards, most of which come as a result of energy. We tend to forget about the things we do and the things we use every day which result from energy. A simple example that comes to mind is when we go home at night and turn on a switch and a light comes on. That is a big improvement on the days when people used kerosene lamps and candles. Everything we use, even a glass or a pen, requires energy to manufature. Few people, even those who are opposed to the mining of uranium, prefer to walk to work rather than drive a car or go by public transport. All transport is dependent on energy. Our continued improving living standard is dependent on the use of energy and on energy being available. 
In conclusion, I point to one thing that comes from the economic advantages of mining uranium. Once again in the statements issued today it has been clearly stated that some of the money that comes from this operation will go into research on solar energy and converting our huge coal deposits into liquid fuels. That is terribly important. Uranium will not last forever. It is important that we have a plan to direct some of the economic benefits into the future beyond Australia 's supply of uranium. 
-In a little over 18 months members of the Opposition who did so much to destroy the economy of this country have suddenly become experts. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who has just finished his speech will have the argument which he put forward put to rest by some figures which I have here. I am delighted that the Budget which has been brought down has been able to give relief to the Australian people particularly at a time when continuing annual deficits have caused massive borrowing programs to be initiated. Under the circumstances which have existed over recent years I thought that a Budget similar to that of August last year would be the best that we could expect. But we got something much more generous. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said, this Budget is tough on inflation and easy on people. Despite what the honourable member for Hughes said, spending is up 10.S per cent. With the relief which we have been able to give to the Australian people the deficit has been reduced to $2.2 billion. I want to talk more about deficits a little later on and illustrate to the Australian people the problems these deficits have been causing. 
How disappointing this Budget must have been to the predictors of gloom when the Budget document became known. Still these peoplemany members of the media and of the Oppositioncannot swallow their pride. They will not admit their errors and give the Budget the praise it deserves. We have to cast our minds back only a few weeks to all these rumours and false predictions which were being made. There were the usual rumours, for example, that the Budget will be increasing the prices of cigarettes and alcohol. There were rumours about the amount available for medical research to be cut, an increase in the Medibank levy, cuts in support to hospital funding and pharmaceutical benefits to be abolished. One can go on and on. The means test was to be reinstated on pensions. Not one of these rumours was true. How disappointing it must have been to all the people who predicted these things. The Australian people do not deserve the unnecessary suffering which incorrect reporting and rumours of this type cause. I mentioned the Budget deficit of $2.2 billion. Over the last few years we have had quite massive deficits. Only recently in some of the conversations with people in my electorate they tended to say - 
I thank the honourable member for Braddon. People asked: 'Is it normal that we always run such a large deficit?' People forget and do not really understand the problems which a deficit causes. They think it is normal to have deficits of billions of dollars. I have taken out a few figures on Budget deficits which go back over the last 10 years and which show a distinct pattern. Let us go back 10 years to 1967-68 when we had a Budget deficit of $642m. I shall read out these figures. As I said, in 1967-68 the deficit was $642m. The next year it was $385m. The following year it was $191m. Then, in the year 1970-71, we got very close to a break even figure as the deficit was only $9m. In the next year it went back to $134m. Then the rot started to set in. We got away from this continual history of having moderate deficits and the deficits went up to $709m, $2,666m - 
This was when our predecessors came to office and started tampering with the economy. They started to play the Father Christmas act and to spend all the money which belonged to the Australian taxpayers. But there is still worse to come. In the following year, 1975-76, the deficit was $3,5 86m. Of course, the Opposition says that since we have been in power things have not improved. In 1976-77, the start of our reign, at least we got the deficit down by nearly $ 1,000m to $2,740m. Our estimate for this year is down another $500m to $2,2 17m. As those figures show, Australia has never known such massive Budget deficits. I tell the Australian people now that we just do not pull the money out of thin air. It comes through heavy borrowing programs. It comes through taxing the people. Taxing the people is exactly what the Opposition did when it was the Government. 
The honourable member for Hughes mentioned unemployment. He mentioned how disastrous it has been since we have been in power. He said that we had increased unemployment. I forget the figure he gave. We have been in power almost two years and unfortunately unemployment has increased by one per cent. It is said that that is something which is unacceptable. The Opposition, in one year of its reign as Government, increased unemployment by almost 3 per cent. 
I have the figures. When the honourable member's party came to government unemployment was 99,300. In the year 1973-74 your party started off with an unemployment figure of 105,000 and almost doubled it to 201,000, an increase of 90 per cent in one year. If you do not think we have improved the situation I point out that we have stopped this spiralling growth of unemployment. We have not finished with it yet. We will improve it more and more until we get unemployment down. You people should not talk. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I remind the House that interjections are out of order. I ask the honourable member for Barton and members of the Opposition to address their remarks through the Chair. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I turn to some other figures which once again illustrate that the economy has turned. We have turned back the disastrous trends which are found in the indicators by people who read the economy. We are turning from the disastrous levels which were seen in the reign of the previous Government. Much has been said about the fact that Australian manufacturing industry has become uncompetitive. This is one of the reasons for the unemployment which we have with us today. There are many figures which illustrate and back up the fact that Australian industry has become uncompetitive. This is one of the reasons why we were forced to devalue by 17.5 per cent in November last year. I add in passing that had we not devalued by 17.5 per cent the economy would be in worse shape today than it is. There has been a benefit and a stimulus to Australian industry as a result of that devaluation. 
I turn to wage increases as a comparison with increases in the consumer price index. In 1 972-73 in the reign of the now Opposition the consumer price index increased by approximately 6 per cent. Average weekly earnings increased by 9 per cent, which is a reasonable figure. I have no objection to people earning money and having their wages and salaries increased as the consumer price index goes up. I do not place any restrictions on that whatsoever. I like to see people earn more and more money. I like to see Australian people have the opportunity to increase their living standards. In the following year 1973-74 the consumer price index increased by 13 per cent. Still within the bounds of reasonable tolerance the average weekly earnings went up by 16.3 per cent which is about 3 per cent above the increase in the consumer price index. Then we had two disasters. In 1974-75 the consumer price index rose by an unsatisfactory 16.8 per cent. Average weekly earnings rose by almost 26 per cent. This was where the trouble started. This was the final straw, the final nail in the coffin, which made many of our industries non-competitive with overseas industries. It made things harder for us to export our goods. It increased the number of imports. 
The consumer price index, another indicator that I have mentioned in conjunction with the average weekly earnings figures, clearly shows that the present Government is making headway in its fight against inflation. Last August the Treasurer, in his Budget Speech, said that inflation was the number one enemy of the economy. He has always said that, I heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  and others in their speeches on the Budget, say that the rate of inflation is on the way up again. There is nothing in any figures which would indicate that. The figures that 1 have show that the rate of inflation is on the way down. In about March 1975, before we came to government, the inflation rate was in excess of 16 per cent. For the March 1975 quarter it was 16.7 per cent. It held at about that figure. It rose to 16.8 per cent. From that time it started to fall. A perusal of the figures for the various quarters shows that it came down to 15.4 per cent in the June 1 976 quarter, 1 4.6 per cent in the September 1976 quarter, 10.8 per cent in the December 1976 quarter and 10.2 per cent in the March 1977 quarter. Although the Commonwealth Statistician has not put out the consumer price index figures for the June quarter this year, a recent study by my colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  shows that figures in the price deflator would accurately indicate that the rate of inflation for the quarter ended June would be something like 9.4 per cent. He said that yesterday. It is back down to single digit figures. If that is not an achievement in a little over 18 months by this Government I do not know what is, and I do not know how any member of the Opposition can say that we have ruined the economy. The people of Australia know who ruined the economy. 
I come now to some of the generous advantages in the Budget. The Budget was said to have been easy on people. I point out that this Government understands the plight of people in need in Australia and always wants to help, but one can never give people all they want. I can never provide all the things that my wife suggests we should buy. A country has the same problem. Nevertheless, within the bounds of these problems, this Government has been generous. Total expenditure in the 1977-78 Budget on social security is $7,248m. That is an increase of $8 17m on last year's figure. This program has allowed pensions to continue to be increased in line with the increase in the consumer price index. That is a milestone for the pensioners of Australia who no longer have to fight for their increases. Through the generosity of this Government the pensions are automatically adjusted as the consumer price index rises. Let us look at some of the other areas, at the new pension rates and at what has happened. Expenditure on pensions and allowances has been increased in this Budget by $440m. Let us look at the new pension rates that will become applicable from November, which is not very far away. The single rate will rise from $47.10 to $49.30 a week, and the married rate will rise from $78.50 to $82.20 a week, I know that many pensioners in my area will certainly benefit handsomely from this increase. 
Let us look at the expenditure on health. The honourable member for Hughes said that we had decreased the amount of money available for health purposes. Total outlays for health are $2,8 13.8m, an increase of 10.7 per cent on the 1976-77 figure. Education also got a mention. The total funds for education have been substantially increased. One has to read into the figures for education the fact that this Government has substantially increased the amount of money allocated to the various States. There is no way that one can look at this Government's expenditure on education without looking at the same time at the massive increases that the State governments have had. Apart from universities and colleges of advanced education, the Federal Government supplies only a topping up process for education which is the responsibility of the States. This year it is estimated the States will get another 1 8 per cent in untied grants- money that they have at their disposal to supply to education if they wish. We recognise the fact- the statement has been made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)-  that in real terms we will supply the same amount of money this year for universities and colleges of advanced education. That is in real terms, in 1976-77 money values updated by the amount of inflation. He also made the statement that in real terms we will supply an increase of 10 per cent for technical education. That recognises where our future job shortages will be. In future the need will be for tradesmen. Apprentices in various trades rely on technical colleges for their education. 
Let me come to taxation. Much has been said about taxation. The new tax scale is a completely revised one. It phases out many of the multiple steps in the scale and decreases the number to three. I point out that very little mention has been made of dependant rebates. We all have heard about the tax scales- the 32c in the dollar, and at $16,000 a surcharge of 14 per cent- but very few people realise that as from 1 February next year the Government will index dependant deductions. Previously a taxpayer could claim a deduction of $500 for a spouse. This year that will be increased to $555. The deduction for a parent or parent-in-law, which was $452, will be increased to $501. The deduction for an invalid relative will rise from $226 to $251. There are other increases in deductions. Apart from the adjustments to the tax scale, the Government's generosity has been extended to people who have dependants so that those people can claim more money for their dependants. 
I would like to mention the money to be made available for local government. Last year the Federal Government, mainly through its new federalism policy, allocated in general purpose grants for local government $ 140m. The honourable member for Hughes said that somehow or other we have reduced that figure. The figure which we have allocated for local government this year is $165m. That is an increase of 18 per cent and is well above the current inflation rate. I know that the three local councils in my areaHurstville, Rockdale and Kogarah councilsshould benefit handsomely from this increase. It should help also people in my area and throughout Australia, at least inasmuch as they will not have to pay substantially more rates. Regardless of all the untruths that the Opposition has put forward, this is a good Budget for the people of Australia. We have rounded the corner on the economy and the people and economy of Australia will go ahead in the future. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (5.35)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  you and I have been in this House together on many occasions. We have crossed swords on many occasions. I have crossed swords with many honourable members on the opposite side of the House, but it has always been a clean though fierce battle. You must know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  how hard it is for me to stand up in this Parliament tonight and concentrate on the Budget after seeing things that I have believed in all of my life being pulled down before my eyes. 
I refer to the disgraceful entry into this House this afternoon by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He came in unannounced, without informing the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  mentioned things that the Leader of the Opposition had said, then denigrated that man's character. I do not see how we can expect to have law and order in this country if that is the way that the No. 1 citizen performs. I hope that he will have the decency to come back into this chamber and apologise for his performance. I am deeply wounded. It is only because of my breeding that I keep going, regardless of the unfairness of the battle. I thank my friend the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  - 
He is my friend too. 
I ask the people of this country: What were the great promises that we received in 1976 and again m 1977? We have 340,000 unemployed and the figure is still rising. There have been greater profits for the multinationals and tax concessions for those people who do not need them. But there has been a deliberately prolonged recession for a generation of young Australians, who have been cheated of hope and respect right at the time in their lives when they need these things most. Soul destroying circumstances are being thrust upon them by a government which is concerned only about multinational com- panies. More than one-third of the young people etween the ages15 and 19 years are unemployed, embittered and disappointed. 
Where is the Government's great concern for the needy? Since this Government came to power there has been a 30 per cent rise in unemployment and there is no end to this rise in sight. In June 1977, 86,000 more people were unemployed than were unemployed in June 1975. Where is the lower level of unemployment? Where is the lower inflation? The Government has no idea of what is happening to the ordinary Australian. I shall tell honourable members why it has no idea: It is because the Government is blinded by its hatred of trade unionists. It has brought into this House the most vicious industrial legislation that this country has ever experienced, all to meet a phoney crisis. 
The way to restoration of confidence, the creation of more jobs and the improvement of living standards lies in humane and responsible balance between the competing needs. This Government thinks only of big business. All kinds of help are given to the multinationals but nothing to the average Australians other than greater and still greater abuse of their freedoms and more and more unemployment. What a way to ask for more co-operation! What a way to ask people to have more confidence! As the honourable member for Sydney said, we are destroying confidence. 
What are the profit takers-the group the Government has helped most- doing to reduce inflation and unemployment? The following figures will give honourable members some indication of that. Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd made a profit of $8,657,000 in 1976 and $29,642,000 in 1977-a 242 per cent increase. Comalco Ltd made a profit of $9,977,000 in 1976 and $23,578,000 in 1977-a 136.3 per cent increase. But the biggest profit taker in Australia, of course, is the Utah Development Company, which is almost wholly American owned. It made a profit of $48m in 1974 and $137m in 1977. That company employs 3,000 people; so each of its employees returned it a profit of over $45,000-about 5 times average annual earnings. Yet this Government has the audacity to claim that the workers ' wages are causing inflation. What a lot of rubbish! 
If that were not enough, the Budget Speech tells us that the Government has removed some of the coal tax. This will give these companies another $24m this year and $27m in a full year. What a performance! To make matters worse, as John Byrne, writing in the  Australian Financial Review  of 28 July 1977 pointed out, the Utah Development Company shipped more than $150m back home to the United States during the past year. What a performance! Why do not honourable members opposite hang their heads in shame? 
The Government certainly has done a lot to assist big business but what has it done for the average Australian, except to take away thousands of jobs, to cut back on educational opportunities, to reduce health services, to levy for Medibank and to place the blame for the resulting economic mess on the trade unions? What a performance! True wage indexation with price restraint would have automatically checked excessive wage rises, without damaging living standards, without destroying the hopes of young Australians, without splitting the nation wide apart. The Hayden Budget was proving that. That is one of the reasons why we have seen the bringing forward of the farrago which has been called the Khemlani affair. That is why it was brought on by the present Government parties. That is why they had to get the Whitlam Government sacked. 
What about the great divider, the Prime Minister? He is the greatest divider this country has ever seen. He blames wage increases for the Treasurer's economic mess. He blames wages at a time when wages have fallen. Real household disposable income fell by 3.S per cent during 1976. Yet he still blames wages for the economic mess. I say that he is a victim of his own propaganda. But very few Australians have been fooled. The gallup polls should prove that to any honest observer. My friend who interjects is right in saying that in August 1976 and in August 1977 we heard the same Budget Speech. It expressed great concern for the needy, talked about reducing inflation and creating greater employment opportunities. How needy is Utah? How needy are the uranium producers? How needy are the petroleum people? They are the only people for whom the Government has done anything. 
I am glad to see one member of the National Country Party in the chamber. The National Country Party had to get into the act. It could not do anything with the Liberal Party so it thought it would get a gimmick of its own. It said: 'We have got a small business policy'. It forgot all about the in-fighting with the Liberal Party and came up with this gimmick. I do not know where members of the National Country Party spend the parliamentary recess, but they certainly do not go into the small country towns, because more small businesses in country towns are going out of existence than ever before in the history of the nation. If honourable members opposite do not believe me they should look at what  Mr Eugene  Falk, the  Chairman  of the Victorian Small Business Development Corporation, said. He made this claim: 
The number of small business bankruptcies in Australia is increasing and is currently in excess of 12,000 a year. 
That is what he told delegates to the annual conference of the Victorian Chambers of Commerce and Industry on 15 July 1977. That is not so long ago. He went on to say: 
The number of small businesses being created is also declining. 
The cumulative effect of this is that Australian small businesses face extinction unless urgent help is given to turn the tide. 

 Mr Falk said that with eight million Australians dependent in one way or another on small businesses it made good sense to do everything possible to help them during the present economic recession. That is what is happening in the country. That is the great gimmick adopted by the National Country Party. That is the great performance. The great defenders of democracy try to stop me from speaking in this House by interjecting, but they cannot do that. They know that for every lie they tell about the Labor Party I will tell another truth about them. That is what they cannot stand. That is what they do not like. The Leader of the National Country Party has given away the Country Party. He is no longer interested in Yarrawonga, but he does everything he can for Utah. First the amount was $150m, and there is to be another $24m this year, with $27m in a full year. He does not have much interest in the market for butter fat but he is doing everything he can for the market for uranium. He is not interested in fixing a decent market price for beef; but petroleum is a different matter, is it not? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. What is the latest evidence of a substantial decline in the rate of inflation? How does this square with the aim expressed in 1976 of a single digit inflation figure? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
Will he provide the lending statistics of major trading banks in Australia in respect of (a) total 'personal loans', (b) total newly approved overdrafts below $100,000, (c) total increase in approved overdrafts from below $100,000 to in excess of $100,000, (d) total new overdraft approvals over $100,000, (e) total reductions in overdraft limits below $100,000, (f) total reductions in overdrafts from above $100,000 to below $100,000 and (g) total reductions in overdrafts below $100,000 for each of the years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
-In speaking to these Estimates for the 1977-78 Budget, I think the Government is to be congratulated on the way in which it has been able to contain expenditure in those departments which we are discussing at the moment. When one looks in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) at the expenditure allocated to the Department of Finance, the Advances to the Treasurer and the expenditure associated with the Department of the Treasury, one finds that the cost increases have been well contained and are extremely marginal. This is one of the reasons that this Government is containing costs at the level at which it has in these Budget Papers. This is why it has been able to hand so much back to the people. 
A lot of this money has been handed back to the people in the form of tremendous tax reforms undertaken by this Government last year and this year. In two years of personal tax indexation and reform over $2 billion has gone back to the people. As I said, this has been achieved because the Government has been able to contain costs and to cut out waste. I know that there is some confusion about the explanation to the Australian people of the tax reforms in particular. Some people have been incorrectly stating that the benefits which are rightfully to go to individuals are not forthcoming. 
I can assure honourable members that tax indexation and the new flat rate tax scale which will be brought in will benefit all people in Australia. Once again, this has been made possible by the containing of costs. As was outlined in the Budget, people in Australia will benefit also from the indexation of dependent allowances, which is also very generous and will go a long way to help Australian families. I stress that it will help families because we need to help those people with young children. We need to give them more money in their pockets to spend on their families- on education, food and clothing. 
The Government will continue to watch expenditure. It will continue to do so because the money belongs to the people. Too often the people form the opinion that it is all right to rip off the Government. Often people do not realise that the money which the Government has is their money; they have contributed to it. I think it is about time that a lot of responsibility came back to the people and that sense returned. I return to the matter of the generosity of the tax system introduced by this Government. As has been mentioned previously, under the new flat rate tax scale of 32c in the dollar and also with the exemption of an income of up to $3,750 a year, 225,000 people who formerly had to furnish tax returns and pay some tax no longer will have to do so. Much has been written about these figures. People have tried their hardest with figures to suggest that there are some flaws in this system. But there are no flaws; everyone will be better off. There are many figures to prove that this will be so. On the figures I have before me, every one will benefit regardless of his income. This is a tremendously generous move by the Government. 
Through tight budgetary controls by this Government much achievement has been gained over the past two years in getting the Australian economy to a base stage where further action can shortly be taken to stimulate the economy a little more. Inflation is now under control. Through the Government's tight monetary controls inflation is down to a level which is running at a little over 9 per cent. Also through its tight controls we have stabilised what was an increasing rate of unemployment. The Government has brought the economy back to a base where it can now move ahead with more stimulus. I think that in the months to come we shall see the Government moving to assist further people in small businesses and the man on the land. This stimulation will do a lot to bring down the high rate of unemployment and at the same time make allowance for the just over 100,000 school leavers who will come onto the market in December. 
To those people, including members of the Opposition who claim that the Government has achieved nothing in the time it has been in office, I say that the Government has achieved a tremendous amount and the people of Australia will benefit - 
What about over $2 billion going back to the people through personal tax reforms? That is one example. If the honourable member wants me to keep going I shall give him many more. The economy of Australia is now in a sound position. The people of Australia-business people and individualscan look forward to a greater and expanding economy. People can look forward to the lowering of interest rates. This is already indicated in the market by the fact that the long term bond rates have come down. There are indications that interest rates are coming down, inflation is under control and unemployment is being stabilised. It is correct that the level of unemployment is high but it has to stabilise before we can get it down. Unemployment will come down. Honourable members on the other side are talking about elections and alterations in the exchange rate. All they are trying to do is to upset the economy and to destroy people's confidence. There is no figure which would warrant people's confidence being destroyed. 
Interest rates will be coming down. People in Australia who want to invest will be able to invest. People who want to go out and buy homes will be able to buy homes. To enable them to do so is the job of the Government, through its Budget and through the tight monetary controls which are shown all the way through Appropriation Bill (No. 1). This is what the Government will achieve for the Australian people. 
Before I sit down I shall talk about unemployment and the need to get it down. Of course, the answer is in the stimulation of the economy. The best way to get people back to work is to provide for them through the economy. The present unemployment level of about 360,000 is roughly made up of three groups of people. It includes the very young and unfortunately some people who, not necessarily through any fault of thenown, are unemployable. I wish to speak particularly about the third group, that is, older persons of perhaps SO to 65 years of age who unfortunately are out of a job. I appeal to employers to give greater consideration to seeking these people for employment. They give stability. They value their jobs. I would like to see more people in my area and throughout Australia take note of this age group and offer them jobs. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $463,874,000. 
It is unbelievable that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  should choose to challenge the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and this Government on the state of the economy. It is well recorded that the actions of the Whitlam Government brought Australia to the brink of economic disaster. I am sure that all Australians will remember and will continue to remember those disastrous years from 1972 to 1975. In that Government the right hand never knew what the left hand was doing. It commenced operations with the tremendous legacy of $4 billion left to it by the McMahon Government when it went out of power. Yet today the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to suggest that this Government has mismanaged Australia's economy- that is, the money and the assets of all the Australian people. 
The Leader of the Opposition has put forward many statistics which he says show that the Prime Minister has attempted to deceive the Australian people. I will put forward those same statistics and show how the Leader of the Opposition is also attempting to deceive the Australian people. Let me run briefly through some of those indicators by which the Government's performance is judged. The Leader of the Opposition said that the Government does not have inflation under control. Yet during his reign the level of inflation reached as high as 16.9 per cent. All the indicators show that the inflation rate is now down to 10.2 per cent. In fact the figure for the last June quarter shows clearly that inflation is now just over the 9 per cent mark. The latest figures for the consumer price index are due to be released next week. The Leader of the Opposition will not have very long to wait and I think he will be somewhat at a loss to explain those figures. In his speech on the 1974 Budget, the Leader of the Opposition said: 
Our policies are now beginning to work. Price increases are now slowing down as government policies take full effect. 
When he took office at the end of 1 972 the inflation rate was 3.5 per cent. During his term of office it reached a maximum of 16.9 per cent. Yet in 1974 he had the hide to say that his Government 's policies were then commencing to work. 
The Leader of the Opposition also mentioned production figures. Somehow or other, he indicated that production figures showed that things in Australia are degenerating. Let us look at the 
E reduction figures. The best way to judge them is y the increases in the gross national product, that is, the total sales or the total production of Australia. In 1974-75 the gross national product of Australia-under the management of the present Opposition-fell by 0.2 per cent. Yet in 1975- 76 it increased by 2 per cent and in 1976- 77- a figure with which the Leader of the Opposition appears to be unhappy- the gross national product of Australia increased by 3.5 per cent. Yet under his management in one year it went backwards. He thinks that is not a clear indication. It is a clear indication that the Australian economy has turned the corner and is progressing forward. This Government is not resting on that laurel. It knows that much has still to be done, and it will do much more to make sure that the Australian economy continues in its upward tendency. 
Let me look at another sound indicator- an indicator that was not mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. I refer to company profit. Members of the Opposition appear to think that company profit and profitability are dirty words. They do not realise that that is where taxation comes from. That is where all the money to provide all the social welfare programs comes from. Without company profit and profitability there would be no tax by which programs of social welfare, health and education can be provided. In 1975 company profit amounted to 12.9 per cent of the gross national product- a fairly low figure, so low that it was very difficult to extract from it sufficient funds to spend on government programs. Yet in 1 977, when the economic management of this Government became apparent, the figure has increased from 12.9 per cent to 14.5 per cent of gross national product. That is another clear indication that the economy is certainly on the road to recovery. 
Let me look at some of the other indicators that define clearly what is going on. Retail sales are a reasonably fair indicator of how the consumer is spending his money and the confidence that the Australian people have in the economy. Let me read from the latest statistics on retail sales. They are dated 6 October. The seasonally adjusted value of retail sales increased by 1.3 per cent in August, following only minor increases of 0.1 per cent in July and 0.4 per cent in June and an average monthly rate of 0.7 per cent for the 1 1 months ended June 1977. So the average monthly rate of increase in retail sales is 0.7 per cent. Yet in August, only a short while ago, the increase in retail sales was more than double the average. I think that is a fair indication of how things are going under this Government. 
Let us look at the number of motor vehicle registrations. That area has received a lot of publicity lately. It is said that the motor vehicle industry is in the doldrums. Let us look at what has been happening in recent months in that area. In August registrations of new motor vehicles totalled 37,100, at a time when people were saying that motor vehicle sales were at a low level and at a time when they were trying to suggest that the number of motor vehicles sales indicated the depressed level of the economy. That is the average number of motor vehicle sales for any month. Average sales had been achieved in August. Let us look at another firm indicator, that is, private dwelling commencements. To get private dwellings built one needs finance. Housing finance approvals by all significant lenders totalled $446m in July, compared with $444m in June and an average monthly level of $430m. Therefore in July, the latest indicator that we have, the availability of finance or finance approved for building homes was $ 16m more than the average monthly level. 
Let us look at some of the export statistics. It is well known that Australia has had a disastrous run on its dollar and that the Australian currency has been weakened by irresponsible rumours fuelled by members of the Opposition, particularly the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  The latest figures show that Australia had record exports at the end of August and that they exceeded imports by a record $139m. The Australian dollar is not in trouble. Our excess of exports over imports has been quite healthy. There is no problem. 
I turn now to news that has come out in the last two days. I refer to the New South Wales Budget. It is obvious from the news in the newspapers that the New South Wales Government has come up with a budget that could be described only as popular. There have been no increases in taxes. There has been a generous increase in educational expenditure but what is not acknowledged in any of the publicity is the fact that the New South Wales Government is able to achieve these results through the generosity of this Government. Through its federalism program the Government has increased grants to all States by 18 percent. Yet the New South Wales Government is taking all the pats on the back for its Budget and not saying one word of acknowledgment of the success of the federalism policy of this Government. That is another indicator that the economy is healthy. At the same time as bringing down the deficit we are able to be generous and put money in the hands of the tate governments, regardless of their politics, for distribution to the Australian people. 
In the few minutes of speaking time left to me I shall touch on unemployment. I have not left this subject until last because we care about it least Unemployment is most important to this Government. The Government realises that next to inflation it is the next important thing to be done. We are striving continually to overcome this unsatisfactory situation. The Leader of the Opposition said that unemployment has increased alarmingly under this Government. I suggest that he is wrong. I admit that there has been a minor increase in unemployment but I refer honourable members to the unemployment figures when the Leader of the Opposition came to power in 1972. Let us look at the 12 months after the Labor Government came to power and its policies began to take effect. In one of his policy speeches the present Leader of the Opposition said that one of his main aims was to reduce unemployment This was when unemployment was only about 100,000 people. Between August 1974 and August 197S the Whitlam Government was able to create a record. It doubled unemployment. It went from 140,000 to 270,000. In 1976 it was just on 300,000. Admittedly, it is now about 350,000. But since this Government has been in power it has been slowing down the rate of unemployment Very shortly the people of Australia will see unemployment start to fall. I shall read what the Leader of the Opposition said in his 1972 policy speech regarding unemployment. It is laughable. I might add that he said this when unemployment was only 100,000. He said: 
Labor's first priority will be to restore genuine full employment - 
Yet during its time in office it took unemployment up by 300 per cent. After the Leader of the Opposition made a statement about restoring full employment, unemployment rose from 100,000 to 300,000 under his Government's control. Yet the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to say that this Government has deceived the Australian people. The Australian people know well who has deceived them. It is not this Government. This Government has the hard job of restoring the economy after the massive mess it was left in. I notice that the Leader of the Opposition has now left the chamber. Obviously he cannot take the hard facts. He cannot take the truth and he has left the chamber as a result. He spoke about fellow Australians being human beings. We know that our fellow Australians are human beings but the Opposition has no idea of this. I know that it will never be able to get back into power. The Australian people will never again wear the disaster that they wore for three years from 1972 to 1975. The Australian economy is sound and the future for Australia looks good. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is the Treasurer satisfied with the level of capital expenditure shown in the recent estimates published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics? 
I support the Government in its implementation of the Bills presently being debated cognately. In the time allotted to me I would like to touch on some of the main features that are embodied in these complex taxation Bills. Firstly, and most importantly, the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill (No. 2) provides for the imposition of the new flat rate personal income tax scheme to commence on 1 February 1978. This is a scheme that will allow the Australian taxpayers a considerable amount of benefit from the payment of tax. I will deal with that later. This taxation legislation provides also for the modification of the exemption limit of the Medibank levy. This is necessary simply because of the new flat rate scale which provides a higher exemption limit for people who pay tax and which of course necessitates that the exemption limit on the Medibank levy also should be raised. Complicated legislation for the alteration of trusts is also included. I would like to deal with that aspect in more detail later because it is a subject with which many people are concerned. I would like to explain to those people that the Government's attitude is not to do anything of a detrimental nature to genuine trusts, but the Government is sincere in its desire to clamp down on the various tax avoidance schemes which have been built around trusts in the past. The legislation provides also for an extension of the investment allowance which was introduced by this Government in early 1976. This was a 40 per cent investment allowance which provided tremendous stimulus to industry. From June 1978 that scheme phases down to a 20 per cent investment allowance. It was originally due to cease in June 1983. This legislation provides for an extension of that investment allowance for a further two years, designed mainly to assist those organisations that are involved in investment of a very large and continuing nature, in construction programs that extend for many years and in expansion programs that require a number of years to complete. This legislation will ensure that those programs will now go ahead and it will ensure also that those people genuinely going ahead with those programs will be entitled to the investment allowance. 
The legislation provides also for the averaging of income of primary producers. Many honourable members of this House have spoken on that aspect. It provides also for increased taxing arrangements on overseas companies being paid film royalties from Australia and, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  particularly in relation to the development of the North- West Shelf, it provides for tax concessions for petroleum mining in regard to the construction costs of liquification plants. From time to time amendments to laws related to taxation become very necessary because of changing economic circumstances and the need to adjust the tax burden on the Australian people and also because of progress in the continuing efforts, usually by some unscrupulous professional people, to invent schemes to minimise or avoid taxation. There are in Australia many people who seem to delight in avoiding their responsibilities to contribute fairly to the running costs of our great country, thereby throwing an increasing and unfair burden on to the majority of honest and responsible taxpayers who are meeting and accepting their just responsibilities in regard to their contribution towards taxation. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said that the Government will clamp down on such tax avoidance. This is the main reason why much of this legislation has come forward. 
I mentioned first of all that the most important part of this legislation is the new flat rate tax scheme that has been introduced by the Treasurer. I cannot help but comment on something that the honourable member for Adelaide said. He spoke of this new flat rate scheme as simply the replacement of a tax exemption rebate for the tax free zone. Actually he is quite correct. That is exactly what it is. But in doing this it leaves in the Australian taxpayers' hands a substantial amount of money that they otherwise would have had to pay under the rebate scheme that was brought in by the Labor Government in 1975. In the Budget Speech, the Treasurer in speaking about personal income tax said: 
Our success since taking office in reducing the rate of growth in expenditure by the Government has made it possible for us to reduce the excessive level of personal taxation 
Our first step towards reform of the personal income tax system was to introduce last year full automatic indexation to prevent effective rates of personal income tax from increasing purely because of inflation. 
He went on to say: 
As a result of tax indexation the Government has forgone revenues in 1977-78 of about $965m on top of the $990m forgone last year. 
The honourable member for Adelaide ironically suggested that his party, the Labor Party, is not a high tax party. Yet during its reign from 1972 to 197S Australian taxpayers suffered increases in personal taxation levels that have never before been seen. So, I suggest that that statement should be reversed- that the Fraser Liberal Government is not a high tax party. That is exactly what this Government is demonstrating now by the introduction of this flat rate scheme. 
Had this Government continued with the general rebate scheme and with full tax indexation, the rebate this year would have been $676 and it would have had the effect of freeing from tax the first $3,1 S3 of taxable income. In other words, had we continued with tax indexation as was promised with the level of the general rebate brought down by Treasurer Hayden in 1975, only people with a taxable income of less than $3,153 would have been exempt from taxation. Yet, under the Government's tax reform, people are going to be exempt from taxation at a much higher level- $3,750. In fact, as it has been well stated in this House, 225,000 former taxpayers will now not have to lodge tax returns and will now not have to be subject to taxation. That fact illustrates the generosity of this Government. This Government has helped those people on the lower tax scales. As well as helping people throughout the entire tax range those people at the lower end of the tax scale will benefit most. 
Just briefly I will move on to trusts. This is a complicated area. It is one of those devices that has been around for a long time, but it has been misused by many Australian people. It has been necessary once again to amend through these Bills the taxation laws relating to trusts. This has become necessary mainly for two reasons. 
Firstly, it is brought about because of the necessary adjustments to taxing arrangements on trusts so as to relate them better to the new personal flat rate scale that I have just mentioned. Under the flat rate scale, incomes below $3,750 are exempt from tax. The laws in relation to trusts are being altered because of the need to clamp down on those people who, as I have said, have resorted to the use of trusts for no other reason than tax avoidance. May I say that the Treasurer in putting forward this legislation has no desire to disadvantage those trusts of a genuine nature, as I mentioned previously. 
The legislation will effectively control the misuse of deceased estate trusts. I am distressedand the honourable member for Adelaide mentioned this- at the incidence of tax avoidance which has resulted from deceased estate trusts. One case is known of someone flying from one capital city in Australia to another city to get a person with two days to live with virtually no assets to sign 500 blank forms so that this person in future years could sell for a sum of money in tax avoidance schemes involving deceased estate trusts the blank forms to whoever his clients may be. When people resort to flouting the tax laws to do something like that, of course amendments are very necessary. 
The legislation also controls the use of multiple trusts which are designed to organise each trust income to be below the minimum exemption level that attracts tax. It is well known that people were setting up multiple trusts for the sole purpose of avoiding tax, and this legislation controls that activity. I would briefly like to describe some of the more common trusts under the new taxing arrangements because I have had many calls m my office and I know other honourable members have probably had calls from constituents concerned at the effects of the taxation laws regarding trusts on their own families. I am pleased to say that in most cases these people have genuine trusts. Trusts formed for children by a living trustee will be exempt from taxation on incomes below $1,040. One of the more common trusts is where the mother, father or parent has a trust for their children and where the income is below $1,040 it will not be taxable. Incomes over $1,040 will be taxed at the rate of 50 per cent. In other words, for every $2 in excess of $1,040 which the trust earns $1 will be taken in tax. That rate is designed so that when the income from that trust gets up to $3,750, which is the exemption level under the new flat tax scheme, the income will be subject to the same tax rate of 32 per cent. A trust for an infant child, which is the proceeds of a will, will have a tax exemption level of $3,750. 1 applaud this legislation because it does tighten up the tax laws and, at the same time, it copes with the situation where people are just trying to flout the tax laws. When the Treasurer introduced these Bills, he said that the provisions will ensure that ordinary trusts for children under 16 years of age will not be called on to pay tax where the income is under $ 1 ,04 1 , which I have just mentioned. 
The legislation also deals with section 99A of the Income Tax Assessment Act. This section which deals with trust laws is the section that is used where a trust is set up purely for tax avoidance. I am very pleased to say that the legislation increases the present taxing rate from 50c in the dollar to 65c in the dollar on trusts that are set up purely for tax avoidance and this the maximum level of personal rate scale. 
The investment allowance is another point that has been mentioned in this Bill. I have applauded the investment allowance since the Government introduced it in 1976. It was designed originally to promote capital expenditure by organisations, businesses and people in the community. It is one of the keys to the Government's policy on economic recovery. The recovery is now starting to take shape. The economic indicators in many instances snow that this is so. Let me repeat the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  many months ago when he was talking on the investment allowance. I think they are important words for the Australian community, important because many people in business are not taking advantage of the scheme. He said that those people who invest today will be in the best position for the economic recovery of tomorrow. I want to speak to those people who are able to take advantage of the investment allowance and to remind them that the investment allowance is a great incentive for investment in capital equipment and the types of equipment that come under the relevant legislation. 
The 40 per cent investment allowance ceases in June 1978 which is only seven months away. Admittedly this Bill introduces a 20 per cent level to come into effect after the 40 per cent investment allowance is discontinued. I want to remind business people and people who are listening to the debate tonight to take advantage of the capital expenditure that is afforded under this legislation. They were very true words spoken by the Prime Minister some months ago when he said that those people who invest now will be in the best position to take advantage of economic recovery. Today we have economic recovery. Due to the monetary controls of this Government, Australia and the Australian economy now have a sound base from which recovery can continue and will continue. We have inflation under control. The latest figures on retail sales show some pleasing results. The latest figures on finance approvals for the building of dwellings show a favourable trend. I suggest that the investment allowance as altered in this legislation, plays a key part in that role. 
In conclusion I congratulate and solidly support the Government on this legislation. As I said at the beginning, the legislation is necessary. Changes will always be necessary to the tax laws. The Government accepts the responsibility that it must tax the Australian people at the lowest possible level and at the same time not allow unscrupulous people to stoop to the depths of tax avoidance, thereby refusing to accept responsibility to their country, and continually look for ways not to pay taxes. I support the Government and congratulate it on this legislation. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Will the Treasurer inform the House whether or not the Government intends to proceed with a November cash loan? 
I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: When is a decision likely to be made on a grant to assist the Australian Commonwealth Games team to compete at the Edmonton Games in August this year? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I join other honourable members who have participated in the Address-in-Reply debate to the Governor-General's Speech in offering my congratulations, through you, to  Mr Speaker  on his re-election to that high position and also to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. Both those honourable members will do a fine job in those capacities. Of course the  Speaker  has already proven himself to be one of the best Speakers this Parliament has ever seen. I am sure that the honourable member for Wide Bay will distinguish himself in the same fashion. I also congratulate those other new honourable members on both sides of the House who are now participating in this Thirty-first Parliament. I trust that they will enjoy their stay here and will be able to contribute with the same feeling and in the same manner as I have been able to contribute in the two years I have been in this place. 
It would be wrong of me if I did not once again thank the people of my electorate of Barton for electing me here for another term. In my maiden speech a little over two years ago in this House I thanked the people of Barton. But as has happened to many honourable members, my electorate has changed since 1975. 1 should particularly like to welcome the new people in my electoratethe 5,000-odd people who come from the northern end of my electorate. I welcome those people to the electorate and assure them that I will be doing my utmost to represent them in this place in a proper manner. Also I indicate to them that the door to my office is always open should they have any problems they wish to discuss with me. The electorate of Barton, of course, is a very old one. It came into being in 1922. It has a rather famous history. It was represented for many years- this was many years ago- by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Dr Evatt.  I am pleased that since that time it has been returned to Liberal hands. The most recent election saw it for the first time returned to Liberal hands at two elections in succession. 
Many people talk about what are the duties of. parliamentarians and how they represent the people. They discuss whether there are too many or whether there are not enough. I think it is very worthwhile just to look at a little of the history of the Federal Parliament of Australia. When I was reading some of its early history just the other day, I discovered that since Federation the number of members of parliament has increased by 63  lh  per cent, whereas the population of Australia has increased since that time by 273 per cent. The first Parliament of Australia in 1901 had 74 members and each Federal parliamentarian represented 13,000 people. You will know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that these days most Federal members of parliament represent approximately 70,000 people. So, it is a big job and a job which I am sure all members of this House take very seriously. 
Before getting on to some national issues, I wish to refer briefly to some of the local needs in my electorate. The Botany Bay region borders the eastern edge of my electorate. Although the development of the Botany Bay area is basically the responsibility of the State Government, I assure the people of my electorate that, wherever Federal responsibility is involved in any part of that development, I will be keeping a watchful eye on it to ensure that any such development that takes place in Botany Bay will leave that region in such a state that it is still a worthwhile, beautiful and historic part of Australia. 
People are concerned also about the possible expansion of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport which borders on the northern end of my electorate. I too am very concerned about allegations that have been made over the last three or four months in the Press, particularly by the New South Wales Premier. Unfortunately his statements are confusing the people of my electorate about what will happen with that airport. At different times the Premier of New South Wales has stated that he is against any expansion of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. Recently he voiced the opinion that the site chosen by the recently concluded  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney study are not acceptable to him. I can assure the people who live in my area that I, too, will be fighting in their interests in relation to the airport. I stand by the commitment, which I have always made public, that I do not favour any expansion of that airport which will result in inconvenience to people in the residential areas surrounding that airport. 
I turn now to some national issues. I shall speak basically on the economy of today. It would be wrong of me to do that without listing some of the achievements that have been made by the Fraser Government over the past two years. I shall mention some of them now in order to refresh people's memories. Inflation has been reduced from a rate of 16.7 per cent to 9.3 per cent. Interest rates have recently been cut. They were reduced by one per cent when this Government first came to power in early 1976. People will be delighted at the fact that in recent months interest rates applicable to moneys available for housing purposes were cut by another 0.5 per cent. This Government has treated pensioners fairly. It has indexed pensions. This has resulted in far less hardship for pensioners than has been the case in the past. They now have the knowledge that their pensions will increase automatically and that they will not lose the buying power of the pensions that they receive. This Government has been generous in introducing the family allowance which is designed to help those people who have young families. That has been a great achievement. It shows that the Government is concerned about people. 
I want to talk most of all about the taxation cuts which have been introduced by the Government, and particularly the taxation cuts which came into effect only a little more than a month ago. Those cuts are very important to the future of the economy of Australia. Some $ 1,000m has been given back to the people since 1 February this year in the form of generous tax cuts. That $ 1,000m will go back into the economy of Australia in the form of spending power. Some of the editorials and statistics being printed in the various publications give strong evidence that the economy is responding very well to those tax cuts. It is evident from the February spending figures that retail sales for February are well up on the normal levels, which is a tremendous indication of the success of those tax cuts. The resultant benefits will flow on to many other areas in the economy. 
Honourable members opposite apparently have some objection to what I am saying. By chance I have with me a paper which was produced by one of the Treasurers in the Labor Government. That person was the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  I shall read to the House some of the statements that he made when he introduced his revolutionary tax program in the 1975-76 Budget. Of course, honourable members will recall that that was the time when major changes were made. That was the time when we changed from the personal tax system, which we had followed for many years and under which taxpayers claimed concessional deductions, to the income tax rebate system, under which everyone received $540 regardless of deductions. Let me read some of the comments that he made in his message which accompanied this revolutionary new tax system. He said: 
The present system, which has persisted virtually unchanged for more than two decades, is behind the times. Its shortcomings have become increasingly evident as the years have passed. 
They are the words of the present Leader of the Opposition when he was Treasurer. Another part of his message reads: 
The new system of personal income tax is simpler, fairer, more flexible . . . 
I place emphasis particularly on the word 'fairer'. In another part of this document he tends to contradict himself when he says: 
For many other classes of taxpayer, comparisons are more difficult - 
That is, comparisons between this new revolutionary system introduced 2V4 years ago with the old systems:  . . . but there must naturally be instances in which the tax to be paid will exceed the amount which would have been paid . . . 
That last part refers to the tax paid under the old system. We know now from practical experience that some people were worse off under that system. The people who were worse off were pensioners who received some minor amount of additional income. Every honourable member will have had the experience of some pensioners who received superannuation payments coming into his office more than 12 months ago concerned that all of a sudden he had to pay personal income tax when he did not have to pay it previously. This was the new system brought in by the Treasurer of a few years ago, the person who is now the Leader of the Opposition. Honourable members opposite have the audacity to criticise the system we have brought in, a system that allows people to pay $ 1,000m less in tax and frees 225,000 former taxpayers from having to pay tax at all. They claim- I heard the Leader of the Opposition make the claim in his AddressinReply speech today- that it is a system that advantages the wealthy. It is a system that advantages everyone, particularly those people on low incomes. That is what this Government is about. 
What about the abolition of death duties? We have promised to do that. We have already abolished some death duties. We did this on 2 1 November last year. We have promised to completely abolish death duties by 1 July 1 979. What about our proposed alteration to the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank? This move will aid small businesses. This is another move- I refer also to the $ 1,000m tax cut which came into operation last month- which will help to get this country going. This country is on the way up again. It is coming out of the dark years of 1972 to 1975. These progressive policies will continue. 
I would like to say a word about unemployment. I know that unemployment is at unacceptable levels. I get incensed when people from the Opposition say that unemployment is part of the Liberal Party's economic policy, part of the Government's economic policy. It has never been any part of the Government's policy. It never will be part of the policy. We do not want to see people without jobs. We subscribe to the view that all Australians should have the right to work. Our future economic policies certainly will not be designed to keep a certain number of people unemployed. They will be designed, if possible, to get everyone back to work who wants to work. 
Of course they are. Members of the Opposition often make the stupid suggestion that unemployment today is greater than in the Great Depression of the 1930s. Of course they are speaking only of numbers. More people are living in Australia today than during the Great Depression. Today about 6 per cent of the work force is unemployed whereas back in the Great Depression 25 per cent of the work force was unemployed. How can honourable members opposite say that unemployment is greater today than then? It concerns Australians when statements like that are made. 
I come now to some of the current economic indicators that I mentioned earlier in my speech which show that the economy of Australia is moving up at the moment. The figures show a favourable trend in retail sales in February. The figures for financial approvals for home building show a favourable trend. The statistics which were released only today on the February overseas trading figures show a surplus of $99m. That is a favourable trend. I have here an article out of one of the newspapers of yesterday that talks about an inflow of foreign investment and says how the Government's economic policy and its overseas borrowing program have stopped any outflow of the Australian dollar and how, in fact, foreign money is starting to come in again. I refer also to the Treasury paper 'Round-up of Economic Statistics ' which in its summary states: 
The consumer price index rose by 2.3 per cent in the December quarter . . . Solid growth in retail sales continued in December; motor vehicle registrations have also risen following a decline in the early months of 1977-78. Lending for housing remained strong in November . . . Private non-residential building approvals in the December quarter were 32 per cent higher than a year earlier. 
This official document talks also about the general reduction of 0.5 per cent in interest rates. All the indicators of a sound economy are there. I have not the slightest doubt about the economic future of Australia. There is no doubt that we are on the path to recovery. We have made significant advances in the last two years, and those advances will continue. 
In the two or three minutes remaining to me I would like to talk about something that is dear to my heart. I refer to assistance to resettle some of the new arrivals in Australia, some of the migrants who are coming into areas of my electorate. I feel that these people need assistance to settle not necessarily in the metropolitan areas which are the places to which they are coming but to settle in other areas of Australia where job opportunities exist in forms which suit their original training in the homeland. I talk particularly of the Lebanese who have settled in the Sydney and Melbourne areas. I have had negotiations with these people. In the next few months I want to put proposals to the Government on a system that will allow these people to go to other parts of Australia and to settle in small groups there. I sympathise with many of these people who have arrived in Australia and certainly with those who reside in the Sydney metropolitan areas where job opportunities are not available. Australians must take up the challenge to assist these people to settle. We have to realise, as established Australians, that we must invest a little in these people and assist them if they are to have any opportunity in the future of contributing towards the economy of Australia. I think this problem must be looked at. 
In recent trips around Australia while serving on the Government Immigration and Ethnic Affairs Committee I visited many places where job opportunities existed for our new settlers. I saw many places which would be most suitable for these people. I have spoken to many new settlers in my area. They accept the idea of going to some country areas in Australia, not isolated but beautiful areas, where they can be employed in the agricultural and mining industries. In the closing seconds I have, I assure the new settlers in my area that I will continue to work on this program and hopefully over the next few months I can get a program going that will assist them to settle in other areas of Australia where they will have an opportunity of employment and where they will have the chance to use the skills they have learned in the countries of their origin. 
I thought that we had finished with the debate on computers this morning but some people still want to drag it on. Nevertheless, I want to mention a great Australian event that is far more important in my opinion than the debate on computers. I am pleased that my very good friend the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development within whose portfolio this matter falls, is in the House tonight. 
I appreciate his presence in the chamber. The matter about which I wish to speak concerns a great Australian sporting event. 
It is not the Melbourne Cup. It is something more important than that. Many thousands of Australian people would recognise the name  Sir Donald  Campbell and many people would recognise the achievements of that great personality. He spent most of his life making attempts on world speed records. Many Australians will remember that he came to Australia some years ago and attempted to break a world speed record using Lake Eyre in South Australia. Eventually and unfortunately his desire to break the world water speed record took his life. The speed attempts of  Sir Donald  Campbell over the years cost millions of dollars and required a small army of workers. When he was in Australia for his record attempt on Lake Eyre he received considerable assistance from the Australian Government. As a result of the great work that he did and his desire to break this speed record he was honoured by the British Government with a knighthood in recognition of his services. 
It is not Donald Campbell about whom I want to talk tonight. I want to talk about a great Australian who, with a far smaller budget, achieved in Australia on 20 November last what Donald Campbell could not achieve over all those years. I speak of a fine Australian by the name of Ken Warby. He was born in Australia and is residing in Sydney. As I have said, on 20 November last he broke the world water speed record. Unfortunately, he has received very little recognition for it in the Press or from the Australian people in general. I think it is disgusting. Ken Warby in his boat named the  Spirit of Australia,  built in the backyard of his Sydney home on a limited budget, with virtually no help, broke the world water speed record by achieving on a two-way run a speed of 288.175 miles per hour. On one of the runs that boat achieved a speed of 302 miles per hour. Ken Warby has done this on his own initiative with a limited budget. He has achieved a great record for Australia. He deserves far more publicity than he has had. 

 His boat was fitted with a second-hand jet motor out of a worn-out Royal Australian Air Force Neptune aircraft. The whole thing was done in Australia. The early speed attempts were carried out on Munmorah Lake which is just north of Sydney and, finally, in November, he broke that record on Blowering Dam at Tumut. That was a magnificent achievement and worthy of far greater recognition by the people and Government of Australia; certainly it is worth greater publicity than  Mr Warby  has had. As an Australian citizen and as a member of the Federal Parliament I feel embarrassed and certainly on my own behalf I thank Warby very much for his magnificent achievement. I hope that in the near future the Australian people and the Australian Goverment will recognise him for what he has done. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Finance. I refer him to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of today's date about a proposed deficit of $6 billion. Is it a fact that in recent years there have been marked changes in the pattern of Budget outlays? Are these changes in the pattern of Budget outlays contributing to the difficulty in providing a balanced Budget and to the Government's inability to boost industry? 
I rise to support the amendments that the Government is making by the Superannuation Acts Amendment Bill. As the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has said correctly, this is a lengthy and complicated Bill which deals mainly with machinery amendments or alterations in the drafting deficiencies which emerged from the 1976 legislation. The Bill consists of some 42 pages. While the amendments are all necessary to rectify these deficiencies that have emerged from the 1976 legislation, at the same time they amend many of the regulations contained in the original legislation that was passed through this House in 1922. The Bill honours an undertaking given by this Government in 1976 when the new scheme was commenced. The Government gave the undertaking at that time that if any shortcomings emerged in the operation of the scheme necessary remedial action would be taken. This legislation embodies the necessary remedial action. 
The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  pointed out in his second reading speech that the changes contained in this Bill did not vary the basic benefit and structure of the scheme as introduced in 1976. Many Commonwealth public servants throughout the country will be pleased that those improved conditions brought in by the 1976 legislation remain unaltered. I should point out also to members of the Superannuation Fund that the relevant amendment still allows Fund members to receive automatically their future increased payments in accordance with increases in the consumer price index. This puts at rest previous reports which suggested that the provisions under which the Superannuation Fund operated would be altered so that future increases in payments would be based on the consumer price index increase or the increase in average weekly earnings, whichever was the lowest. If such an alteration had been made, Commonwealth public servants throughout the land would receive the worst of two pluses. 
I am pleased to say that the position remains as originally intended- that is, that automatic increases are based entirely on increases in the consumer price index. In my office in the electorate of Barton, I have received many calls from concerned Commonwealth public servants who were worried that increased payments may be altered in the fashion that was suggested. These people in my electorate now can have the satisfaction of knowing that they will be treated fairly. I know that Commonwealth public servants in retirement throughout Australia will share in this satisfaction. The amendments also arrange for the old scheme to be wound up. Contributors who were members of the scheme prior to July 1976 at some time in the future will benefit from the proceeds of the winding up of the old scheme. 
Obviously, many other amendments are contained in the 42 pages of the Bill. They deal with rectifying the many anomalies that have shown up, particularly in regard to de facto relationships and orphan children. The Minister said in his second reading speech: 
The Bill corrects an anomaly in regard to the benefit entitlements of children of those contributors who died in service before 1 July 1976. 
He went on to say:  . . children of deceased contributors aged 21 to 25 undergoing fulltime education will now be entitled to benefits in the same circumstances as the children of pensioners who died prior to 1 July 1976. 
This is quite correct. The Minister went on to state: 
The 1976 amendments made spouses' benefits available to a wider range of persons including, under certain conditions, a de facto spouse and the spouse of a marriage after retirement. 
As I have mentioned, the amendments rectify these anomalies and improve the scheme that was introduced in July 1976. In the explanatory memorandum attached to this Bill, the following statement is made about the new scheme: 
The new scheme is, on the contributions side, simpler in concept than the existing arrangements and, after the initial transitional stage, will be simpler to operate. 
This Bill confirms the Government's continuing concern for the many Commonwealth public servants to ensure that their conditions of employment and their benefits such as superannuation keep pace with the employment conditions available in the private sector. It is extremely important that we always take note of this fact. We must maintain always the working conditions of Commonwealth public servants whose work is very important so that they are not disadvantaged in any way in relation to the working conditions and benefits provided in the private sector. I am pleased to say that the amendments contained in this Bill do just that. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs will be aware of the recent sentence of six years and eight months, with a non-parole period of only two years and nine months, imposed by a Darwin court on Donald Roy Tait for illegally importing a large consignment of drugs into Australia. In view of  Mr Tait's  previous history of drug trafficking, the method he employed in smuggling the drugs into Australia and the quantity of drugs involved, will the Minister indicate whether he considers the sentence to be satisfactory? If not, what action does the Government intend taking in this case? Does the Government plan to review penalties for this type of drug trafficking? 
-I listened intently to the speech of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I regard him as one of the more sound members of the Opposition. However, I was concerned when in one of his statements he said that our Government has a lack of concern for the tax system. I suggest that if we had a lack of concern for the tax system we would not be here today debating this amendment. The Opposition had ample opportunity during the period 1972 to 1975 to really show that it practised what it preached. During that period it had the opportunity of bringing in legislation such as this. It had the opportunity to show the Australian people that it believed that the taxation burden should fall squarely on the shoulders of all people, but it did not take that opportunity. The honourable member for Gellibrand bases much of his argument on the fact that this legislation is too late. I agree with him, but is not all tax avoidance legislation too late? The reason why tax avoidance legislation is brought in is that something is already happening. It will always be too late. I suggest that this Government, led by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  is not as late as the honourable member's Government was. 
Could I explain briefly the Bill that we have before us today. It does what the Opposition claims the Government is not doing. It overcomes much of the tax avoidance practice. I admit that there is much more going on. Everyone who knows anything about taxation will admit that there will always be loopholes. New loopholes will become evident. It is the Government 's job to keep those loopholes to a minimum or, if it were possible to do so, to eliminate them. Although the main thrust of the argument associated with the Bill is in relation to retrospectivity and the Curran scheme, the Bill incorporates many other anti-avoidance measures. First of all it rectifies one of the serious tax avoidance exploitations. I refer to gift provisions. It also rectifies the situation regarding share trading losses and particularly the valuation which enterprises and people have been able to place on shares and debentures. I am pleased to say that this Bill will mean that trading items such as those now need to have a commercially realistic value. 
The Bill also rectifies another avoidance situation that has been rife for some time. I refer to dividend stripping. This is a complicated matter, and I will not try to explain it. The Bill also rectifies the situation of reimbursement of dividends or loan back arrangements under Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. That is where a private company has to distribute so much of its profits each year under Division 7. This Bill virtually outlaws arrangements made for some form of a loan back to the company or some arrangements whereby the company theoretically pays out the dividend but the money does not really go from its books. The Bill also rectifies the situation where the primary producer's tax averaging provisions are being exploited by people who are not bona fide primary producers. One has only to look through some of the newspapers of recent months to see blatant advertising encouraging people who are not bona fide primary producers to take advantage of these provisions. 
The main part of the Bill deals with bonus shares- the Curran scheme. That matter has been receiving a great deal of publicity throughout Australia over recent weeks and has been the main cause of members of Parliament receiving 10, 20 or 30 letters and telegrams from people who either have been selling Curran schemes or are associated with the Curran scheme. In the time available to me could I explain briefly what is a Curran scheme. We have all heard about it, but I do not think that many people realise just how it works. What happens is that someone buys a normal company that has assets. These assets are capital and accumulated reserves. In a normal situation a company, after a number of years of trading, has accumulated reserves which usually exceed its capital. In other words, if a company has one thousand $1 shares its paid up capital is $1,000. It may have accumulated reserves of $10,000, making the total assets of the company $11,000. Someone may come in and buy that company for $1 1,000. He then makes a bonus issue of shares equivalent to the reserves of the company and then sells the original shares, which have now been watered down to a value of only $1,000. In other words, there has been an alteration in the ratio of shares to the total assets of the company. In a situation such as that, he ends up with the same amount of money he started with and he has a tax loss situation. 
I do not know how anyone can justify a situation in which somebody could start off one morning with, say, $1 1,000 and, through a series of financial manipulations and bonus share issues, at the end of the day end up with the same amount of money he started with and a tax loss of $10,000. No one can tell me that that is being fair to the Australian people. I might add that anyone can produce whatever tax loss he wishes. I have given an example of a tax loss of $10,000, but it could run into millions of dollars. People have come to me who have manipulated loss situations of $300,000 and $400,000. Those people are not only avoiding some of their tax commitment but also creating a situation in which they will not pay any tax for years. No one can tell me that the Australian people should accept such a situation. 
I have always been a strong supporter of this legislation, knowing full well that there is little excuse for the delay in this legislation being brought before Parliament. I also realise that only a vague and passing reference was made to tax avoidance by the former Treasurer in the August 1977 Budget. It is unfortunate that action was not denned in a clearer manner at that time. However, warning was given, and persons involving themselves in schemes such as the Curran scheme must have realised the high risk factor. In this regard I welcome the recent statements by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  indicating clearer guidelines as to how such situations will be handled in the future. As he has already shown in the case of the forward payment of interest and the forward payment of rents, as he has already given indication that the Government intends to bring in legislation dealing with these two schemes, in this case and in the future legislation will be back-dated to the time when the announcement was made. This is the continuation of this Government's thrust to make sure that taxation is fairly accepted by all members of the Australian community. 
We did not say that. The Opposition said that. Honourable members opposite do not practise what they preach. The small band of vocal people who have been sending letters and telegrams to members of Parliament, at considerable expense, in the main have no alternative but to agree with the thrust of the legislation. The only thing on which they can base their objection is that they are concerned that a principle is being established for retrospective legislation. I think that that argument is pretty weak. In the many government decisions with which I have been involved over the three years in which I have been a member of this Parliament I have never concerned myself with former principles. My decisions have always been made on what I consider is right and what I consider is wrong. If my judgment of what is right and what is wrong is not correct and if the judgment of the Government is not correct, the Government and I expect to be judged by the people every three years when an election takes place. 
Many people on low incomes who came to me for assistance in completing their tax returns last year found that after I had worked out their tax returns they ended up having to pay $50. Those people showed great dissatisfaction and concern when I said, 'Here is your tax return, you will receive a bill for about $50 ' knowing full well that I knew that $50 was a lot of money to them. If this legislation is not made retrospective I do not know how I will face those people when they come to me this year and ask for assistance in preparing their tax returns and look in horror when I tell them that they will have to pay a small amount of money to the Taxation Office. What will I say to those people when they say, 'I have to pay $50 that I cannot afford and yet the Government allows people to get away with millions of dollars? We will not tolerate that situation and that is why we are doing something about it now. 
A few people have suggested to me that there will be a loss of confidence in the business community as a result of the uncertainty of retrospective legislation. I would suggest that the effect of that legislation would be to the contrary. The majority of taxpayers in Australia who are meeting their obligations fairly and rightly, people from all walks of life including the business community, will welcome the Government's action in its attempt to cut out the tax loopholes. The loopholes are usually available only to those privileged few people on high incomes, to whom the honourable member for Gellibrand has referred, who are best equipped to pay tax but who choose to seek costly .assistance from some accountants and solicitors in re-arranging their affairs so as to avoid their rightful tax obligations. 
I also refer to the degree of retrospectivity in this legislation and what I feel is the opinion of the majority of Government supporters. In this instance the legislation is not made retrospective to the same degree as has been discussed in previous legislation. Last year when discussing the trading stock valuation adjustment this Government decided against retrospectivity but in that instance we were discussing legislation that would have been made retrospective from one financial year to a previous completed year. In this instance I can hardly term it retrospective legislation because it will be made retrospective to a date in the same financial year. In other words, the legislation is being backdated to August of last year, which is in the current financial year, which still has a few months to run. if people choose, they can take advantage of the opportunity to put their affairs back to the previous situation. We are backdating legislation only within a financial year which has not yet finished. 
As one of my colleagues mentioned, there is no penalty. I would also like to refer to some Press reports about this retrospectivity and allegations that have been made, particularly about some sort of back bench revolt. From stories in the Press there would seem to be some great problem in the Government in bringing this legislation before the House. I can assure this Parliament, the people and the Press that there was never any back bench revolt. Unfortunately our Press today appears to want to report what is sensation rather than what is fact. The majority of Government supporters are behind this legislation and the vast majority of the Australian people will hail it as being fair. 
The other point I want to mention is how sickening it must be to those Australian people who believe in a fair go to look through a newspaper and see certain advertisements. They must scratch their heads as to what they all mean. In any one newspaper on any one day one will see many advertisements of blatant schemes. For example, some advertisements that I have here are titled, 'Loss company for sale- $90,000 worth of losses', 'For sale current year loss $900,000', 'Income tax shelters unaffected by 7 April amendments' and so on. The public can look through the newspapers every day and see these advertisements. As I said, how sickening it must be to people when they see this, the majority of the people who are meeting their tax obligations fairly. I do not know what these people think and I find it difficult to face them as their member of this Parliament. 
There is no doubt about my strong support for this legislation. I make no apology to the people who have come to see me although I have been prepared to listen to their arguments. After reading 20 or 30 letters from legal firms throughout Australia, after having been interviewed by the same number of people and after having been pulled up in the street and in other places by people suggesting that this legislation should not be so, I make no apologies. I fully support this legislation. I think that this legislation and the thrust of this Government's policies will create much confidence in the Australian community. Finally, I would like to say that many members of the Opposition have suggested, and probably many will suggest in this debate, that we are closing this loophole and backdating this legislation only because we have a deficit and it will help to overcome that deficit. I point out that the legislation is a result of the thrust of this Government in rectifying tax avoidance schemes; it is not because we have a deficit or for any other reason. It enables this Government and will enable this Government to continue with tax reform for the Australian people. Although unfortunately we will never reach the situation in which there will be no tax avoidance, if we could make tax avoidance negligible I would think that the taxation rate throughout Australia could be cut by as much as 20 per cent. That cut would be appreciated fairly by all taxpayers and not only by the privileged few who have the opportunity, the know-how and the money to become involved in these complicated avoidance schemes. I strongly support this legislation. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I refer initially to two of the comments made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  which, to my mind, are quite staggering. First of all, he referred to the structural disorder of our economy. Although I hesitate to go back into those disastrous years between 1972 and 1975, it is quite staggering that the honourable member should talk about the structural disorder of the economy now when we are aware of the disorder that occurred in those three years. I am also amazed at his comment about the public sector offering the greatest scope. I challenge that statement, and I think that the majority of people in the community also disagree with it. Statements such as these have kept the Australian Labor Party in Opposition as a result of the last two elections. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  by way of interjection asked an opposition member where were the plans of the Labor Party for a Department of Economic Development in three years that it was in government. Evidently, honourable members opposite were not aware of the need for such a department then. In the time that the Fraser Government has been in power, probably honourable members opposite have educated themselves on the economy a little more. Now they are making these staggering statements. 
Let us look a little deeper at what is implied in the motion moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand and seconded by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  It calls for the setting up of another government department. That is all it does. The honourable member for Adelaide said that the Opposition really did not want to increase the size of the Public Service. Then he talked about the secretariat for this so-called new department. The honourable member contradicted himself and talked about what would eventually develop into another massive department. If we look beneath the proposition, we can see that it will lead to an increase in the size of the Public Service. It will lead to the establishment of another government department, and that will mean more taxation of the Australian people. I am sure that the Australian people do not want that. That reminds me of the old story that has been told so many times and written about so much. I refer briefly to the fall of the Roman empire when the public sector grew too big for the private sector to support. I am not against public sectors. I am not against private sectors. There has to be a sensible balance maintained between both of these sectors so that it is possible for both sectors to be supported without throwing strains on to the economy. 
The statistics on employment in the public sector during those three years of Labor government show that the Federal Public Service increased by almost 200,000 personnel. I do not think that was necessary, and obviously the Australian people did not think it was necessary. I wish to quote what was stated by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in a speech he delivered on 12 May to the  Australian Financial Review  conference. He said: 
Our policy has been directed at halting and reversing the explosion of the public sector, not only to reduce both its direct and indirect inflationary effects, but also to provide the scope for an absolutely essential transfer of revenue to the private sector. 
That statement is in direct contrast to the statement made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. The economy is stimulated only by a restoration of faith in the future of all Australian people, in particular the business community. It does not give a lasting effect to stimulate the economy artificially in any way or to stimulate it by increasing the size of the public sector. The best way to do something that has a lasting effect is in a controlled and natural way by the private sector. 
My speaking against the motion, I should point out, does not mean that the Government is against economic planning. Long-term economic planning is essential. We are able to do this, and we are doing this, through the structure that exists at the moment. We have no desire to break the record of the Labor Government of having the largest Ministry of any Australian government since Federation. A great deal has been done in this area, and there is now a sound base for substantially more economic development to take place. This is happening right now. A great deal of hard work has been done over the last three years to establish this base. We have seen the reduction in the rate of inflation, the reduction of the deficit and the introduction of tax reforms which have saved the taxpayers $3,000m. These things would never have been possible if we had adopted a policy of saying that the public sector provided the best means for expansion. We have restored faith in the Australian dollar, and this has led to increasing investment confidence in the community. The latest economic statistics confirm that inflation, as we all know, is now running at 8.2 per cent per annum. The statistics also confirm that the consumer price index increased by only 1.3 per cent in the March quarter, the lowest March quarter increase since 1972- five years ago. That is not a bad record. 
The latest economic statistics in the national accounts show that real domestic final demand, both private and government, increased at a solid annual rate of 3.6 per cent in the second half of 1977. In the December quarter, in constant price terms and seasonally adjusted, private final consumption increased strongly by 1.7 per cent, and business investment expenditure increased even more strongly by 3.5 per cent. Real exports of goods and services rose by 4.4 per cent, and real imports of goods and services declined by one per cent. I deal now with the figures in respect of capital expenditure. Capital expenditure represents faith in the future and it is tied up with forward planning. It is stated that capital expenditure by private enterprise, seasonally adjusted and at current prices, rose by 7.7 per cent. These are the sound grounds that we need to have if economic development in Australia is to continue as it will need to continue in the future. The many projects which are being developed in Australia at the moment confirm that long term planning exists and that economic development is well on the way. We have to mention only a few of the developments that will take place on the North West Shelf - 
Order! As it is now two hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Staley)  agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of Notices, General Business, be extended until 12.45 p.m. 
I was referring to some of the examples which show that economic development in Australia is well under way. I was talking about the potential development in places such as the North West Shelf. Only today announcements were made that a new aluminium plant costing many millions of dollars is to be established, that expansion of oil refineries throughout Australia costing hundreds of millions of dollars is to occur and that expansion of the mining industry and coal exports is to take place. While I am speaking on the subject of the mining industry and coal exports, I should indicate that recent figures show that investment in mining in the March quarter of 1978 increased by 64.4 per cent over that for the same quarter last year. That shows the potential of our mining industry. 
Our fishing industry is also being developed now. The introduction of the 200-nule economic zone will mean that the fishing industry will offer tremendous development for Australia. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is doing research into the development of our territory in Antarctica. New port developments are taking place in Brisbane. I have mentioned only a few, but hundreds of developments such as these are taking place around Australia at the moment. These will give Australia a sound future. Associated with all these developments will be the creation of employment and capital expenditure. Only recently the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development made a report on the Australian economic condition. That report confirmed that the Government's strategy is correct. We have long term policies. We are not an irresponsible government. As I have said, these long term policies which are administered by our government departments will take Australia and the Australian economy on to much better things. 
In conclusion, I return to the terms of the motion. It seeks to create another government department and therefore more taxation. The Government agrees with the principle of economic development, but let us have no more government departments and no more taxation of the Australian people. Let us hope that the Government can continue with its policy of modifying the growth rate of the public sector and with its tax reforms for the Australian people. I am sure that that is best for Australia and for the Australian people. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Willis's)  be agreed to. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health and it relates to the recent publicity given to the changes to Medibank. Will the Minister inform the House whether all pensioner patients in public hospitals will have to contribute all but $7 of their pension towards the cost of their board and lodging in public hospitals? If this is not the case, will a pensioner patient with, say, a broken hip be classified as a long stay nursing home patient and, as a consequence, have to contribute towards his board and lodging? 
-In speaking to this Bill, the Income Tax (Arrangements with the States) Bill 1978, it is fitting to start by reading a short paragraph from one of the monthly papers put out by a leading Australian institution. It states: 
Since Federation in 1 90 1 , the States have experienced successive reductions in their financial independence. The present Commonwealth Government is now making an explicit effort to reverse this trend and restore to the States a greater measure of independence in the raising and disposal of their revenues. 
The reference there was to the present Fraser Government. That is exactly what this Government's policy of federalism is about. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  presented many facts. When he reads his speech tomorrow he will find that many of those facts actually support the Bill. The quotation I have just given refers to successive reductions in the financial independence of the State. There is no great acceleration in those successive reductions in independence than occurred in the years 1972 to 1975, during the Whitlam era. I heard the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  asking the honourable member for Gellibrand by way of interjection, 'What is your policy?' I can tell him what the Australian Labor Party's policy was, as given in the words of the Prime Minister of that time,  Mr Whitlam.  In his instructions to his fellow Labor State Premiers he said: 'Your duty is to bring about your own end'. Yet honourable members opposite indicate that federalism policies were invented by them. How could the honourable member say that the Labor Government thought about federalism when, as was reported quite widely, the Labor Prime Minister said to the State governments: 'Your duty is to bring about your own end'. There is no doubt that the thoughts favouring centralism that they had at that time still exist; there has been no change. 
The Bill which represents Stage 2 of federalism, is part of the total federalism package, a package that, in direct contrast to what has been claimed by the Opposition, has received acceptance, at various Premiers Conferences, by all Premiers. There has been basic acceptance of the federalism policy. The Government is reversing the trend of the past. I know that the honourable member for Gellibrand said that during the years 1972 to 1975 specific purpose grants were increased- in other words, tied money that was going to the States. The States had no control over how they would spend it. Certainly, the money went there, but it had to be spent exactly in the way that the centralist government that we had in Canberra at the time said that it had to be spent. 
This Government's federalism policy is concerned with sharing fairly with the States income tax collections and, let us not forget the third tier of government, the local governments of Australia. This is important to continuing CommonwealthState relations. Stage 1 of federalism came into force approximately two years ago. That has brought a greater percentage of untied money to our State governments. I know that federalism is an extremely hard policy to explain to people. It is complicated, but it is good for Australia. Unfortunately, with the advent of federalism, of fair-sharing of income tax with our State and local government colleagues, the State governments, especially the Government of New South Wales, have played politics. Honourable members will all remember how, in the New South Wales election of 1976, Premier Wran successfully sold to the people of New South Wales the fear of double taxation. This legislation does not mean double taxation. I will talk more about that later. The people of Australia in any State need have no fear that this will mean double taxation. It does not mean that at all, yet that is what was implied by the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
With federalism you have to look underneath the surface to work out what it means and many of the facts that were put forward by the honourable member for Gellibrand were the basic facts of federalism. Federalism gives the States greater amounts of untied money. When the States are given a greater amount of untied money they cannot at the same time be given greater specific purpose grants, otherwise the Federal Government would still control their finances and that would defeat the whole purpose of federalism. Over the two years since fed.eralism has been in operation the States have had on average for each of those years an 1 8 per cent increase in untied money. I know, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Gellibrand, that some specific purpose grants have not increased at the same rate; they have increased at a lower rate, and that will always happen. In explaining federalism to people it is impossible to look at specific purpose grants in isolation. One always must look at the specific purpose grants and the greatly increased general revenue payments and add them together. One will then find that the States have been doing pretty well, and I will cite figures later on to prove my point. 
The responsibility, as I said, must be returned to the States and the States must accept this responsibility for having a hand in what money they get and for having a greater hand and responsibility in how they spend that money. To allow the States to continue to blame the Commonwealth Government when money is not available, at the same time taking credit when the money is being spent, with a lack of responsibility in the raising of money, only induces extravagance and financial irresponsibilities. There are massive examples of State irresponsibilities but one that I will put to the House involves my own State of New South Wales where, over the last few years, the State Government has been increasing its State Public Service at an average rate of 9 per cent per annum while the Federal Government- the Government in Canberraexercising sensible restraint, not cuts, has been holding the increase in the Commonwealth Public Service to just below the 5 per cent mark. If only the States would follow the Commonwealth's general lead in vigorously reviewing their expenditure patterns it would minimise the need for them to seek additional revenue from the Commonwealth or to increase their taxes and charges in the usual, established manner by which the States are able to collect revenue. I refer to payroll tax, increased service charges and all the rest. 
Let me back up what I am saying and destroy what the honourable member for Gellibrand said. He said that this Government is 'starving' the States. We are not starving the States. Before I entered the chamber tonight I took the opportuity to obtain a few figures on State finances, and I will refer to my own State of New South Wales- a Labor State and a State that, if the Federal Government were starving the States, surely would be in the No. 1 breech position. These figures which I will cite do not cheat. They are the States half-yearly figures as at the end of December. These figures can be seen before they have time to doctor their books at the end of the financial year. At the end of December- the first six months of this financial year- my own State of New South Wales had a surplus of $78m. 
It had a surplus of $78m for the first six months of this financial year. At the same time, the Federal Government in Canberra, paying out money to the States generously, is looking at a coming deficit of $2,500 billion. Yet through our generosity the New South Wales Government had a surplus of $78m as at the end of December, the first half of the financial year. Federalism is something that is going to be of tremendous benefit to Australia. I have already spoken of the increased general purpose grants to the States. I have just told the House about the surplus that the New South Wales Government had at the end of December. Let us have a look back through the years at New South Wales Budgets. In citing these figures I ask the people who are listening tonight to bear in mind that the Federal Government is looking at a deficit of $2,500 billion. For the year 1977-78 the New South Wales Government is budgeting for a surplus of just over $2m. Last year it had a surplus of just over $2m. In the previous year it was almost a break-even figure, a small deficit of $500,000. I now refer to the earlier years- the years before our federalism policy came into operation. For the year ended 1975 New South Wales had a deficit of $36m. For the year ended 1 974 it had a deficit of $ 1 3m. If this Federal Government is starving the States, how is it that a State as inefficient, unfortunately, as New South Wales is able to balance its books so well? I have not the slightest doubt about federalism working. 
This legislation introduces stage II of our federalism policy. This is what the Australian people have to get into their heads. Sure, the legislation gives the States the power to impose a surcharge but, far more importantly than that, it also gives the States the power to give a rebate to the people, the people in their own States and the people of Australia. When the States study this legislation and when the States really realise the powerful weapon it puts into their hands they will understand the importance of this legislation. If I were a State Premier I would be making rebates as quickly as I could because the State which comes in first with a rebate systemand this legislation gives the States power to do this- is the State which will attract business opportunity, investment and movements in population from the other States in the same way as Queensland has been attracting people as a result of abolishing death duties. New South Wales, if it had any brains, could do the same thing. Any State could take the initiative. I contend that this legislation gives a great opportunity to the States that wake up first, the States that wake up to the fact that we have put a powerful weapon in their hands, the States that wake up to the fact that they can give their people an income tax advantage. The State that wakes up to that first is the State that will benefit most from this great legislation that is now before the House. Time does not permit me in this debate to speak much longer on the Bill. I fully support this legislation. It is great legislation. 
Those people who talk about it as an invention of this Government to hoodwink the people are all wrong. This is great legislation and, as I said before, the State that wakes up to this first will get a great advantage over the other States in Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Armitage)  adjourned. 
Has the Treasurer read the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which today awarded full indexation in respect of the 1.3 per cent increase in the March quarter consumer price index? What are the implications of this decision, both for employment and for the continuation of the Government's economic stategy? 
I have just listened to the speech by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  Although I agree with him about Botany Bay being a beautiful area which we must preserve, I must correct some of his claims, which were entirely incorrect. First of all, Botany Bay is not in the area of St George. I have the greatest admiration for my colleague the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  If the honourable member for Hughes would look at the electoral map he would find that the water in Botany Bay is part of the electorate of Barton, so he is wrong about that for a start. 
Let us turn to another claim he made. Let us go back to what happened prior to the New South Wales Labor Government coming into power. Before it came into power in New South Wales the Liberal Government conducted exhaustive environmental studies on the development of Botany Bay. I can assure the honourable member for Hughes and anyone who is listening tonight that I endorse the suggestion that any development in Botany Bay must be environmentally acceptable. Botany Bay is a beautiful place and it must remain so. I will do all in my power to make sure that it does. Before the last State election in which  Mr Wran  came to power he promised the people that he would stop any work on any port development in Botany Bay and institute an environmental study. The study took a mere few weeks and when the Wran Government came to office the development went ahead. After promising the people that he would stop any development,  Mr Wran  went ahead - 
Is the Minister for Health aware of some confusion in the community regarding the newly announced subsidy covering personal medical care? Is the Minister aware that some members of this Parliament are telling people that the Government will pay only 40 per cent of medical charges or $20? Is this correct? 
-I have been fascinated today by what the Australian Labor Party would put forward in support of the matter that it has proposed as a matter of public importance. Unfortunately the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  for whom I have a considerable deal of respect, has put forward the usual Labor Party policies. The subject proposed for discussion reads: 
The increasing inequality and injustices imposed on average Australians by Fraser Government policies. 
I feel that it should read: 'The increasing inequalities and injustices imposed on average Australians during the Labor Party's reign of 1972 to 1975.' I will put forward some of the facts on the inequalities which were created in that period. Those inequalities were created by a government that was supposed to be the friend of the working person. They affected the working person. The inflation that was created in that era was detrimental to the economy and greater inequalities were created in that period than in any other period of Australia's history. Members of the Labor Party often talk about the Depression of the 1930s, but it has no relationship to the economic situation today. The economic situation today is quite different. I hope that the Australian people will never forget what the Labor Government did to destroy the Australian economy between 1972 and 1975. 
Let us look at the inflation rate. Let us look at what it was prior to 1 972. Let us look back to the time when there was no deficit in Australia and the inflation rate was 4 per cent and the interest rate was 6 per cent. This Government did not destroy that situation. The Labor Government destroyed it. In the years in which this Government has been in office it has been restoring balance to the Australian people and it will continue to do so. 
I can reply to the honourable member's interjections. He has not been a member of this place for very long. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1 978: 
1 ) How many shifts are engaged in the cleaning of the international terminal at Sydney Kingsford-Smith Airport. 
2 ) What is the duration of each shift. 
How many employees are engaged on each shift. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. After 1 November, when the new health insurance arrangements come into operation, what will be the situation regarding hospital charges for a patient who is not insured if he or she requires intermediate or private accommodation? Can the value of the free public ward accommodation be used as a credit to reduce the cost of intermediate and private ward charges? 
I am delighted to be able to speak on these estimates, because they go right to the heart of what is embodied in the Budget. The estimates for the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Finance show up a pattern that outlines this Government's philosophy and the efficiency that this Government has restored to the public sector of Australia, which is financed by the private sector. This year the estimates for the Department of the Treasury are approximately $253m and for the Department of Finance approximately $25m. Honourable members will be aware that the Department of Finance was constituted recently, when it was split away from the Treasury. The Department has been in existence for a little over a year. It helps to put efficiency into Government expenditure. Let me spend some brief time in explaining the operations of the Department of Finance as compared with the Department of the Treasury. Basically the Department of Finance is designed to ensure that estimates for expenditure on behalf of the Government are adhered to. 
Let me put the position in business terms. The Treasurer is like the financial director of a company. The Department of Finance acts in an accountant role. It is necessary, particularly in an organisation as big as the Government of Australia, that we have a department such as the Department of Finance to make sure that we adhere to the Estimates of expenditure that have been agreed to in the Budget. As I said, the patterns of expenditure by the Department of the Treasury in particular show the efficiency of this Government. The two major items of expenditure for the Department of the Treasury are the administration of the Australian Taxation Office and the administration of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
An interesting picture is revealed when we look at the total administrative costs, particularly of the Australian Taxation Office. I know that many people regard this as a big organisation with a lot of overhead. The total expenditure of the Office for this financial year amounts to $174m which is really only $12 per head of population. I think that it is quite an efficient office that can operate at such a figure. Its operations cover all the States of Australia. It does a magnificent job, even though most people hate it. The Australian Taxation Office is a great necessity for Australia because only when the money comes into that Office can it be tunnelled out to those people in need. I think that a breakdown cost of $12 per head of population reveals the efficient operation of the Australian Taxation Office. 
Let me look a little more closely at the costs of running the Office in the previous years and, indeed, the total expenditure for the Department of the Treasury. I think that this Government has done a tremendous job in curtailing the rise in expenditure of Government departments while at the same time maintaining the efficient services they provide for the people of Australia. Let me deal with the position in the years before this Government came into power. The rise in expenditure of these departments was running into the double digit percentages. The total increase in expenditure for the Department of the Treasury for 1976-77 compared to 1974-75 was only 5 per cent. In fact, until 1976-77 the total expenditure of the Department, without taking into consideration the effects of inflation, increased by 5 per cent each year. If the real effect of inflation is taken into account, we find that the people of Australia have benefited from a decreasing cost of administering these departments. 
I would also like to make a brief reference to the Australian Bureau of Statistics which also provides a magnificent service to the people of Australia. The total expenditure for the Bureau this year is estimated at $5 7m. That figure breaks down to a cost of $4 per head of population to run the Bureau. The people of Australia are receiving good value for their money in the running of both those departments. It is costing $ 12 per head of population to run the Australian Taxation Office and $4 per head of population to run the Australian Bureau of Statistics. I wonder whether the people realise the amount of tax revenue that has been collected by the Australian Taxation Office over recent years. Let me cite the position back in 1973-74. Total tax collections, amounting to almost $11 billion, exceeded the previous year's collections by 2814 per cent. The collections in the following year, 1974-75, exceeded the previous year's collections by 30 per cent. Of course, honourable members will realise that at about that time there was a change of government. A Government came to power that was concerned to see that the people of 
Australia should not be burdened with such massive increases in taxation. 
The honourable member for Lilley, I know, pays a tremendous amount of tax and we appreciate very much the contribution he makes. In 1975-76, this Government cut the increase in total tax collection to 19 per cent and in 1976-77, it cut the tax collection increase to 16 per cent. In 1977-78, the increased tax collected amounted to only 8 per cent. In 1978 supposedly people are rebelling against the so-called  Vh  per cent tax surcharge. We have been told that people have been organising protests against the Government's Budget. Tax collected this year will increase by only 11 1/2 per cent over the amount collected last year. I might add that these increases in tax collections I am talking about are expressed in real dollar terms without taking into account the inflation rate. 
If we go through the figures over the last 3 years, we see that the total amount of tax collected by this Government has actually decreased when compared to the amount of tax collected during the era of the Whitlam Government when the taxation collections rose annually by 28&amp; per cent and 30 per cent. This Government has actually decreased the tax burden on the Australian people. Yet people are incensed to go out and demonstrate against the Budget. I submit that people will blindly demonstrate without understanding the true reasons behind the Budget. The people of Australia have had a tremendous tax deal over the last 3 years. I am proud to be associated with a Government that has introduced tax reform for the Australian people. 
I wish to talk briefly about the 1  Vi  per cent surcharge that is being imposed on the Australian people this year. Unfortunately, no one wants to pay tax. But we must all look at the situation responsibly. We know that Australia has a Budget deficit. We know that Australia has social security, health and education programs that are the best in the world. I agree that the Australian people should have them. They deserve such programs. But the programs have to be financed and rightly so. The only way that such worthwhile programs can be financed is from taxation revenue. This year, reluctantly, the Government has had to impose this 1  lh  per cent tax surcharge. The surcharge will remain in force for only this year. It will not continue in operation after this year. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  gave his assurance that a termination date of 30 June 1 979 for the1½ per cent tax surcharge will be embodied in the legislation. Even taking into account the 1½ per cent tax surcharge, the rate of taxation revenue collection in Australia, bearing in mind the rate of inflation, has increased only marginally over the previous year's collections. 
It is unfortunate that when the people of Australia are incensed to demonstrate against the Budget, they do not look a little more closely at the figures and see what they are demonstrating against. I repeat that over the last three years the people of Australia have had an excellent taxation deal. The figures I have cited show this to be the case. In previous years, taxation was running wild and the people of Australia were suffering. Under this Government, they have received an excellent deal in regard to taxation and will continue to receive an excellent deal. I am very pleased to support these estimates for the Australian Taxation Office and, to a lesser extent the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The Australian Taxation Office is a most efficient organisation. It is doing an efficient job for the people of Australia. I totally support the expenditure of $253m for the Department of the Treasury which, of course, includes an expenditure of $ 1 74m for the Australian Taxation Office. 
It is well known that it is many times easier to criticise than it is to be constructive. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  spent 30 minutes criticising this legislation. He did not offer any concrete suggestions as to what the Labor Party would do. I want to be constructive but firstly, since the honourable member for Gellibrand spoke about the 'nasty' things that this Government has been doing- obviously he has had a 'great' lesson in economics since he has been a member of the Opposition because he appears to have learned little- I would like briefly to mention some of the things that the Whitlam Labor Government did during its term in office. Firstly, receipts from personal income tax were raised by an unprecedented 89 per cent during the first two years that Labor was in office. That is not a bad sort of a record for a party whose spokesman on economic matters claims in this place that we are over-taxing the people, that we are thrusting great burdens on them. Indirect taxes were increased in each of the three Labor Budgets. A massive increase of $602m in indirect taxes and levies, excluding the coal export levy, was imposed by a Labor Government. Last but not least- it is very important to remind the people of Australia of this- the Labor Government specifically refused to introduce tax indexation for individuals or for companies. That is very important. The tax indexation legislation is the most important piece of tax legislation introduced by this Government in the  2lA  years it has been in office. 
Indexation, which would have returned tax to all the people of Australia, was refused by that Labor Government. Yet the honourable member for Gellibrand had the hide and the audacity to stand up in this place and say that this Government is over-taxing the Australian people. 
As the honourable member for Gellibrand broadened the debate into the general economic area, I would like to make a few points. I am at a loss to understand the conflict that has developed in the Opposition's economic policies. One of the Opposition's spokesmen on economic matters stands up in this place and says that the Government should spend more money and not worry about a deficit, yet today another member of the Opposition sought to introduce as a matter of public importance a discussion on concern about the Government's overseas borrowings. I do not know how a Labor government could blow out a deficit and at the same time not borrow more money overseas. Obviously a Labor government would return to the printing of money. 
We are debating five Bills and they are all machinery Bills. They have been spoken about in August in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  but nevertheless some of them are of extreme significance and importance. I would like to deal with those last; I would first like to mention three of the Bills briefly. One of the Bills before the House is a Bill to rectify a particular aspect of tax indexation which disadvantaged a small group of people. It rectifies the position for a small group of people whom the honourable member for Gellibrand claimed were disadvantaged as a result of tax indexation. It is true that when the Government brought down the 50 per cent tax indexation in conjunction with the threetier revised scale introduced in February, a small number of people would have had to pay marginally more tax. At that time the Government promised that no person would be disadvantaged. One of the five Bills we are debating today removes that disadvantage. Provision is made in one of these Bills so that a small number of people who were marginally disadvantaged will not have to pay more tax than other people. 
The Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill is a machinery Bill to increase company tax by lh per cent in line with the 1% per cent temporary surcharge that unfortunately has been imposed on people who operate under the pay-as-you-earn tax system. The third Bill I want to mention is the Health Insurance Levy Amendment Bill which provides for the levy to cease from 1 November. I am very pleased to see the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  sitting at the table. The Australian people are now starting to understand this proposal. They are now starting to realise that the abolition of the health insurance levy, which, of course, will return  2Vi  per cent tax to many people, in conjunction with the new system that has been instituted, is of great benefit and is a great step forward by this Government for the Austraiian people. 
As the Minister for Health says, it puts money back into the pockets of the Australian people. I am pleased to say that despite all the confusion over the last month or so the Austraiian people are now realising the advantages of this new system. It is appropriate that in one of the Sydney newspapers today, the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the headline on the front page reads 'Fund's new medical table halves old rates'. In other words, a particular fund has been able to halve the old rate that was offered to its members. The article reads: 
A reduction in medical insurance rates of $2.80 a week for a family was announced yesterday by the first major NSW health fund to have new tables approved. 
The article goes on to say: 
It has been able to cut by more than half its present charge of $5.50 because of the new Federal Government benefit of 40 per cent of scheduled fees announced with the Budget and to apply from next month. 
I am pleased to see that people are starting to understand the new scheme. I am pleased also to support the legislation which as from 1 November no longer makes it necessary for people to pay a 2te per cent levy in addition to their tax. 
One of the remaining two Bills was dealt with at length by the honourable member for Gellibrand, as one would expect him to do. He was really able to get stuck into this one. He said that this Government is removing the 5 per cent tax on lump sum payments for annual leave and superannuation. Of course, he can jump on the bandwagon and make that statement. This Bill will return $60m a year to the Government but I think it needs a little bit of explanation. Many people came to my office complaining about this legislation but obviously they did not understand it. Their expectations of what this legislation is going to do did not turn out to be so bad after all when it was explained to them. First of all let me state this. It was never intended that people should accumulate annual leave. People were to take leave annually and have a rest from their normal employment. I think that is the purpose of annual leave. I am surprised to hear a Labor Party supporter speaking against this legislation because I know that firmly embodied in Labor's policy is the principle that people should take their annual leave. In fact this legislation stops annual leave from being converted to a lump sum payment on retirement. I feel sorry for those people who have been caught up under this legislation but annual leave was meant to have been taken and they should have taken it. The news about long service leave, superannuation and other lump sum payments that are made on retirement is not so bad at all. Only 5 per cent of long service leave that accumulated up to 15 August is to be included in a person's taxable income. Only that long service leave which accumulates after 15 August is to be taxable at the rate of 3314c in the dollar, which is the base rate of the new scale. 
Superannuation is not mentioned in this Bill because no alteration has been made to it, but it forms part of lump sum payments on retirement. Another section of this Bill deals with other payments. I mention this because I have certainly had deputations, particularly from people who are employed in the Local Government Association where it is normal for a gratuity of one week's payment for every year of service to be paid on retirement. I am pleased to see that this legislation ensures that that is treated not as normal annual holiday pay which is fully taxed but as another form of accumulated long service leave. The effect of this Bill on that payment is certainly not nearly as severe as those people had originally thought. 
The fifth Bill which is embodied in this legislation deals with the 1V4 per cent surcharge and in particular is related to pay-as-you-earn tax. It is clearly embodied in the legislation that that surcharge expires on 30 June 1979. It is to be applied for only 12 months. The honourable member for Gellibrand asked: 'How honest is the Government'. I think that this Government is very honest. I am proud to be part of it. I would not be part of a government that was not honest. The time for the application of this surcharge is embodied in the legislation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer have made statements about it. What more can we do to convince people that it is necessary to apply this  Vi  per cent surcharge for only 12 months? I do not think there is any doubt about the situation. 
The Bill to which I am now referring, the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill 1978, that legalises this surcharge also alters two other tax rates. For instance, where a person's income exceeds $16,608 the legislation alters the tax scale to 47.5 per cent, and where a person's income exceeds $33,216 the legislation alters the tax scale to 61.5 per cent. I think that people on high incomes such as those should have to pay a high rate of tax. I do not think, as the Opposition spokesman suggested, that this Government is disadvantaging people on low incomes. 
In the final part of my address I come back to the generosity that has been extended through the indexation that has been introduced by this Government; indexation that, over the last three years, has returned to the Austraiian people approximately $ 1,000m for each year, that is, a total of $3,000m. Only at the weekend I took out and studied some figures on income tax collections which went back to the years when the Labor Government was in office. I worked out the increase in total tax collections over the previous years, adjusted for movements in the consumer price index. In 1973-74 when the total tax collections were almost $ 11,000m, the total increase in tax collections over the previous year was 28.6 per cent, and 13.9 per cent after adjusting it for movements in the CPI. Yet in the last three years, after adjusting for movements in the CPI, the increases in taxation collected over the previous years were a plus of 5.8 per cent for 1975-76, a plus of 2.5 per cent for 1976-77 and a minus of one per cent for 1977-78. 1 seek your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to have this rates scale incorporated in  Hansard. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1 978: 
How many passengers (a) occupied first class seats, (b) utilised airline employee discount entitlements and occupied first class seats, (c) occupied economy class seats and (d) utilised airline employee discount entitlements and occupied economy class seats on Qantas flights during 1977-78. 
My question also is directed to the Prime Minister. Has he any advice to offer sections of our community concerning the living conditions of people in some parts of Australia? 
It is indeed my pleasure to speak in support of this Audit Act Amendment Bill. It is an extremely complicated Bill which consists of 66 pages. I understand that amendments have been considered over a number of years. I certainly am pleased to see the legislation come into the House, even at this late stage. I suppose that the Auditor-General's Office strikes fear into most government departments- and, or course, so it should. No one seems to like auditors, but they are a very necessary part of any government, business, enterprise or whatever it may be. I wish to say how efficient I feel the Auditor-General's Office is. I just glanced at the amount of money allocated to the Auditor-General's Office for 1978-79 and I was pleasantly surprised to see that its salaries, wages and administrative costs are only $ 1 1 ,432,000. That is a lot of money; but, considering the job that this office does in relation to other departments, I think the people of Australia are getting good value for their money. 
This Bill covers a number of items. I do not pretend to understand them all, but I have taken the time to look at some of the amendments. Many of them are machinery amendments, particularly the ones that alter the Audit Act to cope with the fact that the Northern Territory is now operating under its own steam. Many of the amendments really update the Audit Act to allow for computer-based accounting. When I look at the original Act I see some of the terminology, such as that in section 40 of that original Act, which states that the Treasurer shall keep at the Treasury a book called the cash book. I think honourable members will agree that that terminology is very outdated, being terminology that accountants used 20 and 30 years ago. We are in the computer age today and it is necessary to make sure that these machinery amendments go through to cope with this computer age. 
I refer now to some of the other clauses of this amending legislation that interest me. Firstly, I refer to one that does cause me some little concern, namely the clause that deals with the monthly statements of receipts and expenditure. I think it amends section 49 of the principal Act, which originally read: 
1 ) The Treasurer shall, as soon as conveniently may be after the expiration of each month of each financial year, publish a statement of the receipts and expenditure of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and of the expenditure of the Loan Fund . . . 
Many honourable members here will realise that this deals particularly with the monthly statement commonly referred to as the Niemeyer statement. I know that I, like other members, and members of the media, look forward to the details of that monthly statement. It shows clearly the expenditure month by month of each government department plus the progressive totals. I am concerned at this amendment which interferes with the monthly statement and the annual statement because the amendment transposes the original meaning of the Act to the extent that the matter is under the jurisdiction of the Minister. 
I turn to the clause that deals with the words gross negligence'. I realise that other members who have spoken before me have also mentioned this clause. The amending Bill says:   . . where there occurs a loss of, or deficiency in, public moneys, or the loss or destruction of, or damage to, other property of the Commonwealth, an officer who, by his misconduct or by performing any of his duties in a grossly negligent manner, causes or contributes to the loss, deficiency, destruction or damage is liable to pay to the Commonwealth an amount equal to-  and it goes on. As other members have done, I express concern about the words 'gross negligence'. I am not of a legal mind, but I have made inquiries regarding this terminology from people who have some expertise in this field. To my horror I find that there really is no definition of gross negligence'. Therefore, in the form in which it is in the Bill it would be extremely hard to define the words and I think it is doubtful whether action can be taken where gross negligence occurs. 
I now move to what I call the main thrust of the Bill before us, and that is efficiency audits. The performance of the Government, like any big business, is judged by the amount of money that is usually spent by each department. This attitude has grown up over the years. For instance, if the Government spends 10 per cent more on, say, education this year than last year, the Government is generally judged by the people as having improved the education system. This also happens in many big businesses where seniority of people is judged by the number of people they have on their staff and the amount of money they spend. Although I can suggest few alternatives to this system, the system in itself tends to breed inefficiency. I am pleased to see that this legislation allows efficiency audits to commence, because I think this can improve efficiency remarkably within the Government ranks. I am looking forward with a great deal of interest to seeing the effect of efficiency audits on the various government departments when this legislation is passed. I wish the Auditor-General well and hope that perhaps next year, instead of $1 1.4m being available to his Office, he will have a substantially greater sum available to cope with his work in efficiency audits, thus giving greater efficiency to the taxpayers of this country. I do not propose to elaborate on any other clauses of this Bill. I am extremely happy to see it come before the Parliament and I am very confident that a Bill such as this, even though it has taken so long to come before this Parliament and even though it is such a complicated Bill, will do much for the people of Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I support the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1978-79. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  spent 30 minutes picking out those programs where there has been a slight decrease in expenditure. I suggest that if he had picked out the programs where there had been increases he would have spoken for a couple of hours. If one looks at the total expenditure involved in this Bill for this financial year one will find that it exceeds the allocation for the previous financial year by $330m. The total appropriation is, of course, almost $1.6 billion. A strong point that I would bring out is the fact that of this $1.6 billion almost $700m is for payments to the States under section 96 of the Constitution or as specific purpose grants. That amount alone has increased by $220m over the previous year. This Bill involved public works programs and, of course, grants to the States. 
This Appropriation Bill identifies many payments for programs which are administered by the States. I would like to spend some time referring to these particular programs. I strongly believe that the Australian public incorrectly feels that their State governments often are the generous providers of goods and programs, not the Federal Government. The money really comes from the Federal Government. State governments are not backward in putting forward this incorrect public opinion. Many instances of this type of attitude are evident. In particular, in recent weeks during the New South Wales election campaign all sorts of claims were made that money was coming from the New South Wales Government when, in fact, it was provided through the generosity of this Federal Government. 
Some of the items detailed in this Bill are funded through the generosity of this Government, but are to be administered by various State governments. An amount of $34m is allocated for programs under the Aboriginal Assistance 
Act; SS.2m will be used for apprentices in State government establishments; and there will be a contribution of $2.5m to the Commonwealth Games which will be held in Brisbane. I particularly mention the last item because it is often claimed by members of the Opposition that this Government does not provide any money for sport. Yet this Government already has contributed $2.5m for the Commonwealth Games to be held in Brisbane in 1982. That money will be administered by the Queensland Government. 
Other projects administered by the States will be funded directly by this Government. The blood transfusion service will receive $6.6m. The honourable member for Hughes spoke about the school dental scheme. If he adds up the four figures involved, he will find that a total of $ 18.9m will be spent this year on the school dental scheme. Admittedly, that is a little less than the expenditure for last year but the amount of money spent does not necessarily measure how good the program is. How the money is spent is what counts. Grants for community health programs total $5 1.3m. In my electorate, which is very close to the electorate of the honourable member for Hughes, a marvellous community health establishment at Peakhurst is funded by this Federal Government. An amount of $5 1.3 m will be paid to such establishments. 
Let us consider some of the smaller items. An amount of Sim will be allocated for drug education; $6. 7m will go to the various State governments for water resource treatment in rural areas; and $1 1.9m will be provided for research grants. Research grants are given to various people at universities in the community. If one looks at a list of recipients of research grants one finds that many of them are carrying our research into solar energy. I make that point because it has been said by members of the Opposition that this Government is doing nothing about solar energy. Honourable members may recall that about 18 months ago one State Premier promised a grant of $lm to one of the universities in this country. The university never got it. The only place from which researchers are likely to get grants for research into solar energy is this Government. The honourable member for Hughes said that this Government is not concerned about pensioners. An allocation of $4m is proposed for senior citizens centres; $ 10.4m for home care services and $42 m for child care and associated services. 
Let us have regard to some of the items in this Bill that involve direct Commonwealth Government expenditure, not expenditure administered by the States. At least the Commonwealth should get some recognition of such expenditure. The honourable member for Hughes asserted that the housing industry was not doing well in Canberra. An amount of $8. 9m is proposed for the Australian Capital Territory housing authority. The not insignificant sum of $3 16m is to be allocated for direct advances for housing to the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
I now turn to the immigration and ethnic affairs. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  was in the chamber a short while ago. Money is provided for translator and interpreter services; for establishment costs for the Institute of Multicultural Affairs; for settlement services for refugees coming into Australia; and for the special broadcasting service for our new settlers, a service well known in the communty. They are examples of the generosity of this Government. Another small but important item concerns the 'Project Australia' campaign for which Sl.lm is provided. This campaign will be tremendously important for the future of Australian industry. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back a few years when a similar campaign was conducted. It was called the 'Buy Australia ' campaign. The 'Project Australia' campaign to be launched shortly will assist Australian industry. Directly related to this campaign is the export expansion grants scheme for which an allocation of $20m is proposed in this Bill. The honourable member for Hughes did not say anything about that because it is a direct increase of $20m. This is a new scheme and, of course, there has not been any previous expenditure. So, that is the generosity of this Government. There has not been an overall increase of $330m provided for in the Bill. That amount is certainly not to be sneezed at. 
I come back to some of the other comments made by the honourable member for Hughes. He spoke at length of expanding the public sector and I know that that is the policy of the Opposition. He gave figures in respect of other countries that were expanding their public sectors. But what he neglected to tell honourable members in this chamber and what he neglected to tell people listening to the broadcast of these proceedings was that expanding the public sector meant taxing people who were not in the public sector to keep the public sector going. I do not decry the public sector. We have some excellent public servants in Australia. The public sector is important to Australia and so is the private sector. But what people have to remember is that already in Australia today there is a ratio of one public servant to every three people in the work force. That perhaps is a good ratio but we have to remember that that one public servant is maintained through taxation taken from two people in the private sector. So if one were to be stupid and increase the public sector to a ridiculous proportion it would be extremely difficult for those people in the private sector to meet the cost through taxation. 
The honourable member for Hughes referred also to staff ceilings. I want to remind the people listening to this debate tonight that there have not been cuts in the staff ceilings of the Public Service. There have not been cuts in the number of people employed in the Public Service. Yet the newspapers write all the time about staff cuts. They should look at the statistics put out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and find that month by month there have been increases in the number of employees in the public sector. I think that that should be so. But what they are misinterpreting is the fact that we are holding those increases to a sensible level. There have never been any staff cuts. Sure, there are staff ceilings, but those ceiling levels are higher than those of previous years. 
The honourable member for Hughes spoke also about unemployment. I have the greatest sympathy for people who are unemployed. The honourable member for Hughes mentioned in particular unemployment in Canberra. If he looks at the unemployment figures, he will find that Canberra has a lower rate of unemployment than has any State in Australia. Of course it is still too high, but nevertheless, it is the lowest rate. Another fact that he did not mention was that the Australian Capital Territory has a much greater participation rate of people in the age group available for work than has any other part of Australia. Its participation rate is 10 per cent higher than that of any State of Australia. So the honourable member picked the wrong horse when he talked about unemployment in Canberra. 
In concluding my remarks in support of this Bill, I agree with the honourable member for Hughes that there is a tremendous amount of expenditure involved. The amount of $330m is a significant increase on the allocation for the previous year. The Government has done a good job in the present climate of restraint, at a time when we are trying to give back money to the taxpayer through tax reforms. But if we were to be stupid about it and increase the size of the Public Service as the Opposition wants us to do, and thereby increase substantially this type of budget, this public works program, then there would be a tremendous burden on the Australian taxpayer. The sensible thing to do is to keep these programs going and expand them at a sensible rate. That is exactly what this Government is doing. I have great pleasure in supporting the Government on this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Much has been said by the Opposition about the Government's alleged failure in the field of taxation. It is rather surprising that members of the Opposition should talk about the so-called failure of this Government when, during the Labor Party's term of office, from 1972 to 1975, it did nothing for the Australian taxpayer except to increase the tax burden on them. Since 1975, when this Government came to office, regardless of what has been said by the Opposition, the Austraiian taxpayer has benefited greatly from the tax reforms put forward- tax reforms that will continue. It would be wrong of me not to refer to tax indexation, which in the three years in which this Government has been in power has saved the Australian public about $3,000m. That is $3,000m a year that the Austraiian public would have had to pay had we continued with the taxation system left to us by our predecessors, now the Opposition. 
Members of the Opposition talk about the growth in taxation. That is quite incorrect. If one were to study the total pay-as-you-earn tax collected as shown at page 213 of Budget Paper No. 1, and analyse those figures and make adjustments for the consumer price index and for the increased force, one would see an interesting pattern emerge. For example, in 1971-72 there was a general increase in PAYE tax of 1 1.4 per cent. In 1973-74, a general increase in PAYE tax of 20.1 per cent was thrust upon the Australian public. In 1974-75, a similar figure, 19.9 per cent, was involved. In December 1975 there was a change of government. Tax indexation came onto the scene and the increases started to fall sharply. The figure of 20.1 per cent fell to 3.5 per cent in 1975-76. In 1976-77 it rose to 7.6 per cent, but in the year 1977-78 it fell to a mere 0.5 per cent. The estimate for this year, after allowing for consumer price index adjustments, there will be a net fall in PAYE tax of 0.3 per cent. 
Of course, apart from the benefits of tax indexation, it is important to remind the Australian people and the Opposition of what this Government has done with tax avoidance during the last 12 months. We have taken steps to outlaw the socalled Curran scheme. We have taken steps against current year losses. We have taken away the abuse of the averaging provisions. We have stopped dividend stripping and we have rectified and altered the trust laws to stop trust stripping. We have altered laws to cut out the tax avoidance schemes that people have been able to maintain through pre-paid rent and interest We have stopped the abuse of the gift provisions. We have stopped the avoidance through share trading in loss companies. Tonight we will introduce legislation to stop malpractices in sales tax. Tax indexation and all these measures against tax avoidance have been introduced because we care for people. We want the people of Australia to share fairly the tax burden they should bear. We want to continue tax reform. 
I shall refer briefly to some of the things that the Labor Government did not do when in power between 1972 and 1975. Today members of the Opposition are talking about all the things which we should do and which we are not doing. All of a sudden they have become educated in tax laws; they have become experts. Let me remind members of the Opposition of what their Government did not do during the 1972 to 1975 period. First of all, it refused to bring in tax indexation. It needed the money; it could not afford indexation. While Labor was in power it increased the receipts from personal income tax by 89 per cent. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who has just left the chamber, talked about increases in indirect tax. The Labor Government increased indirect taxes by $602m. So I fail to understand how members of the Opposition can talk about what we have not done when their Government failed to do so much during its term of office. However, I do respect some parts of the speech made by the honourable member for Hughes. He was the only member of the Opposition who acknowledged the fact that this Government had made attacks upon those people engaged in tax avoidance schemes. But I was surprised to hear him say that the Opposition puts a priority on tax reform and tax equity. I had not heard of this before; I did not realise that the Labor Party had a policy of tax reform and tax equity. That is exactly what our policy is, and that is the policy that we will pursue. 
I turn now to the Bills that are before this House. I want to mention one of them in particular, and that is the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3). This Bill rectifies the situation that was brought about by the Nilsen Development Laboratories case in the Victorian 
Supreme Court. A judgment was handed down in favour of that company to the effect that business enterprises are able to make a tax deduction for holiday pay and long service leave not yet paid to the recipients. This practice had not been accepted as normal business practice in industry. Had the situation not been rectified, some $600m- that is the figure mentioned by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  although I do not put it so high- would have been lost to revenue. 
Other provisions in the legislation have been mentioned already. Some deal with the lump sum payments on retirement. Previously, only 5 per cent of such sums attracted tax. Still only 5 per cent of lump sum payments for superannuation attracts tax. Unfortunately an adjustment has been made which stops people accumulating holiday pay and long service leave pay and paying tax on only 5 per cent on the payment they take in lieu. I have some sympathy for the many people who have come into my office and made representations about this adjustment. I know that some people have been disadvantaged by this legislation. Nevertheless, the system as it stood only created a situation in which people tended to terminate their employment on a continuing basis. This is bad for industry and it is bad for people. Long service leave is provided to reward a person for long service in his job. Holiday leave is provided to enable people to take an annual holiday and to have a rest from their normal occupation. I have had representations about this matter from people in the Local Government Association, from people employed in the transport industry and from people employed in the building industry. Nevertheless, I support the Government on this legislation. 
Other provisions in the Bill alter the tax averaging provisions for primary producers. As I represent a metropolitan seat, I am afraid that I know very little about such provisions although you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may know a little more. There are also penalties for anyone who wilfully underestimates provisional taxation. They are there to stop people doing silly things and getting themselves into a situation where they cannot meet their taxation commitment. There are also in this legislation alterations to rebates for concessional tax deductions exceeding $1,590, and a lot of other minor adjustments to the Act. There are alterations to rebates for dependants residing overseas. One necessary part of the legislation says that the  2Vi  per cent levy for health insurance need be collected no longer. With regard to that matter, people are doing all sorts of funny calculations to work out increases in the tax scale as from 1 November as a result of an alteration in the surcharge. They are not taking into consideration the fact that no longer is the 2te per cent levy payable. Removal of the levy tends to help people reach a reduced tax situation. 
The final part of this legislation to which I want to refer deals with the alteration to the tax scale, the unfortunate  Vi  cents in the dollar surcharge which this Government has had to impose- a temporary surcharge- is embodied in the legislation and automatically cuts out on 30 June 1979. That is proof that this Government intends that surcharge to be a temporary situation. However, along with that surcharge, the increase of 1 te cents in the dollar, there are other generous measures which help to reduce tax commitments. The amount of income exempt from taxation has now been increased from $3,750 to $3,893-that helps people considerably- and the rebate for a dependant wife has been increased from $555 to $597. 
I move now to some of the percentage adjustments that these alterations make to people's incomes. I have been concerned at recent reports in the Press where all sorts of speculation have occurred. Calculations have been made to show that the change which came into operation from 1 November increased people's taxation to figures as high as 10 te per cent. That I say is a lot of rubbish. I have some calculations here and I wish to tell the people what the Ite cents in the dollar increase means. Firstly, it was never the intention of this Government to indicate to people that the increase was only Ite per cent. When the previous standard rate of 32 cents in the dollar was increased to 33.5 cents in the dollar, it amounted to an increase of 4.075 per cent. People are miscalculating in that they are not calculating on a per annum basis but rather calculating for a period of eight months. Even though this increase in the surcharge is effective over a 12-months period, the Taxation Office only commenced to collect it from 1 November. A 4.075 per cent increase in an eight months period works out at 7 per cent. Anyone who gets a figure beyond 7 per cent is not being honest with the system. I have done calculations for incomes of $10,000 per annum without dependants, $10,000 per annum with a wife, $15,000 per annum without dependants and $15,000 per annum with a wife, and the result is a similar percentage just mentioned. 
The Government is continuing its policy of taxation reform. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  mentioned that we are grappling with section 260 of the Act which, legally, has not been very successful over the years. It is important that we grapple with this section- as we are doing at the moment- that cuts out particular schemes devised for tax avoidance. It is this Government's intention to continue with section 260 and to try to strengthen it so that legally it can achieve that purpose. 
The honourable member for Hughes also mentioned retail turnover tax. I would like to refer to this matter because, like him, I have had 400 or 500 letters in my office from people complaining about this terrible retail turnover tax that the Government is supposedly going to institute. This is not so. This Government does not intend to bring in a retail turnover tax. It has made no statement to that effect. Contrary to speculative suggestions in the Press and those made by some retail organisations, the Government has made no decision on whether such a tax should be introduced. It has decided that there should be an inquiry into the practicalities of various forms of taxation because it wants to continue with taxation reform. It wants to make decisions about whether the method of tax collection at the moment is the correct one or whether there is a better and fairer method. Certainly there is no intention to collect more tax. Of course, retail turnover tax may well be within the scope of such an inquiry but any decision would not be taken before ample opportunity had been given to assess the community response. 
The Government is looking continually at ways of trying to vary the form of taxation and is committed to tax reform. It cannot be committed to tax reform if it cannot look at all avenues of tax that are available. I say to those people who are getting letters when they go to the local supermarket- I daresay many people probably do not even consider what is in those lettersbefore you sign a roneoed letter and send it in, just give some thought to what it says. I feel that many of the people who have shown concern or have sent these letters in have not taken a great deal of notice of what they are doing. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has made statement after statement in the House about this matter. In answers to questions he has clearly shown that there has been no decision to impose a retail turnover tax. 
The concern for taxation, for people and for tax equity will be continued by this Government. I am sure that the people of Australia will receive, now and in the future, a far better tax deal than they received during the dreadful years 1972 to 1975, a period when taxation ran rampant simply because inflation ran rampant Now we have stability in the economy. Taxation is greatly reduced and is going to be reduced further. The Government is getting close to the situation where the people will be able to receive a much fairer deal regarding taxation commitments. I fully support the Bills that we have before us at present and I believe that the people of Australia will benefit greatly as a result of them. 
-I support the Sales Tax Assessment (Nos 1 to 9) Amendment Bills 1978 which legislate to abolish tax avoidance schemes in the area of sales tax. This legislation represents the continuation of this Government's policy in cutting out tax avoidance schemes because the operation of such schemes has the effect of not levelling tax fairly and squarely on the shoulders of those people in the Australian community who certainly should pay their fare share of tax. I might add that tax avoidance schemes in the sales tax area, which these nine Bills legislate to abolish, have been in operation for many years. I disagree with the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  that the number of these sorts of schemes increased only during the term of this Government. I will come to that matter later. As I said, these amending Bills are designed to level fairly the liability of sales tax throughout the community. They are not designed or put forward in any way, shape or form to disadvantage the genuine business person. The nine Bills cover a complicated field. The reason why there are various Bills is that goods of Australian manufacture have to be dealt with separately, imported goods have to be dealt with separately and goods that are sold directly by a manufacturer or marketed through a wholesaler have to be dealt with separately. The legislation deals with goods manufactured with sales tax exempt materials supplied by a customer. A serious situation has been brought about by a few people throughout Australian industry purposely avoiding the payment of sales tax. I am pleased to see that the amendments in these Bills pick up this situation. Other amendments take account of sales tax avoidance on goods manufactured by a person which he applies to his own use. Another amendment relates to goods sold between associated companies or enterprises for amounts which are certainly not fair and reasonable amounts. 
Most of all, and perhaps most importantly, the Bills also pick up a situation that has been in operation for some time in relation to option schemes. I regard it as a most serious situation. People are using it openly to flout the sales tax laws. I know that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  mentioned the other day in his second reading speech that there had been instances of people buying new cars for as little as $20, on which sales tax is payable, and there is an associated option in relation to the purchase of the car. The amending legislation also picks up the overuse of service charges in relation to the purchase of goods. Where a service charge is an exorbitant amount which greatly deflates the wholesale price of the goods for sales tax purposes. 
As I have said, these Bills tend to make the tax laws more equitable. The honourable member for Gellibrand spoke about avoidance schemes coining onto the scene only in the last few years. I should like to mention that before I became a member of this place I had been associated with one industry for 25 years and it used to horrify me when I saw situations develop in which people created false arrangements just for the purpose of avoiding sales tax. I just wanted to throw that in because the honourable member for Gellibrand is of the opinion that this situation has developed only over recent years. 
Although the hour is late, I would like to take the time to mention something which has become apparent with the introduction of this sales tax legislation. I mention this matter particularly because I know that the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  who was to speak after me in this debate but who is not now able to speak because of the lateness of the hour, is concerned about the people who live in isolated areas. I know that the honourable member for Dawson is concerned for the welfare of the people in his area. There is some provision in this legislation which is of interest to those people who live in isolated areas. I refer to the sales tax on the freight cost of goods. I think there is some confusion about that in Australia today, particularly in isolated areas. The people in those areas are disadvantaged because they are paying sales tax on the cost, insurance and freight- the cif price of goods landed in those isolated areas. If the wholesalers and retailers in these isolated areas choose to purchase their goods on a cif basis at the point of manufacture there is no need to pay sales tax on the freight component in delivery charges to those areas. I know that the honourable member for Dawson intended to take up this point in this debate. I am sure that he will be taking back to the people of his electorate the good news that this option is available to wholesalers and retailers in isolated areas. 
I would like briefly to analyse some of the sales tax collections over the last 10 years because the honourable member for Gellibrand and the other Opposition members who speak on tax matters in particular tend to claim that this Government is a government that has levied excessively high taxes on people since coming to office. Of course it is wrong to say that in respect of the income tax area. It is interesting to note that it is also wrong to say that about the sales tax area. It is rather interesting to note that prior to the Whitlam Labor Government coming into power in 1972 increases in sales tax over previous years were of an orderly figure of about 10 per cent. It is interesting that in 1973-74 sales tax collections increased over the previous year by 26.7 per cent. In 1974-75 the increase in sales tax collections was just short of 20 per cent. In 1975-76 the increase in sales tax collections was 22 per cent. There was then a change of government. When we came to power sales tax collections in 1976-77 increased by 17.2 per cent. In 1977-78 they increased by a mere 6.5 per cent. It is estimated that in the current year, 1 978-79, the increase in sales tax collections over last year will be a mere 2.4 per cent. 
I put these figures forward because if we calculate the component of the consumer price index we find that particularly over the past two years this Government has collected a lesser amount of sales tax revenue in comparison with the previous year. That throws out any argument that the Government is tending towards the indirect taxation field because it is a way of collecting tax that is not obvious to the people. The hour is late. I know that the Treasurer would like to comment on the Bills before they are passed. I fully support the Government in these Bills. I think they will do justice and fairness to the Australian taxpayers in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time. 
-My question is also directed to the Treasurer. He will be aware of some recent suggestions that the Government should change its economic policy. I ask: Does the Government intend any alteration to its current economic strategy? 
-I was on my feet,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am sorry for the confusion. It is my pleasure to follow the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who this morning outlined the current international situation. It is one which is of concern to all. However, the goods news is that he spoke of the growing justifiable mood of optimism about Australia's economic prospects, and it is the domestic economic prospects to which I want to address myself. Regardless of what is said by some members of the Opposition, Australia is and has been for some months now getting into a situation which is the envy of many countries. It was difficult to sit here and listen to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  make a speech that was entirely negative. It was a speech which contained no suggestions. I was surprised when he suggested that devaluation has greatly disadvantaged Australian industry when, in fact, it has done just the reverse. Devaluation and the method used to value the Australian dollar today have improved Australia's efficiency when compared with her trading partners throughout the world. I listened intently to his speech. There was not a positive suggestion in it. The only thing he suggested which could be taken up was that we should have a blueprint for the economy to take us into the 1980s. I wonder whether the Leader of the Opposition could suggest anything that would help in designing that blueprint. 
We have exciting news ahead. It is just starting to emerge. I am sorry to bring up the old story of inflation. I know that most politicians bring it up. They remind people how inflation is now down to a manageable level of about 8 per cent from its level of about 17 per cent when the previous Government was in office. However, I must mention it because so much goes into the inflation package. A low inflation rate means low interest rates and more investment. Investment leads to job opportunities. A manageable rate of inflation and the investment that will follow will provide job opportunities for the people of Australia today and in the future. We all know of and are sorry about the social problem of unemployment. Many Australians who want to work are out of work. I will say more about that issue later. 
Let us talk about the interest rates that flow from a low inflation rate. Interest rates have come down. People will well remember that savings bank lending rates have come down. The people of Australia will also be aware that savings bank loans are earmarked for housing. Lending rates to business have come down. Only recently the bank overdraft rate dropped from 10 1/2 per cent to 10 per cent. There has been a decline over the years in the Government's borrowing rate. All these factors lead to prosperity and investment. The Prime Minister discussed investment at length in his speech. He referred to the intended investment programs of ICI Australia Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Ltd. We have read recently about the increased profits of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Australia's largest company. The inflow of overseas capital has averaged about $2 50m a month for the last 12 months. This shows the confidence which overseas investors have in Australia today. 
I know that some Opposition members despise the word 'profit'. They cannot see the wood for the trees. Company profits mean prosperity to all the people of Australia. Profits do not remain with companies. The Government receives from companies taxes which provide pensions for the people of Australia. I cannot help remembering the words of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  who spoke about his objection to the Australian Telecommunications Commission going into private enterprise. He does not realise that taxation of profits made in the private sector pays his salary, my salary and the salary of all members of Parliament. Yet some members of the Opposition think that profit is a dirty word. Their salaries and their living depend on it. Company profits mean prosperity. They increase government revenue. They reduce unemployment. They have a revolving economic effect. These factors are interrelated with a stable inflation rate. That is why this Government is continuing its policy of lowering inflation. So much depends on it, particularly jobs. 
I now turn to some of the other economic indicators. It has been well reported that retail sales increased in December. Do honourable members know what that increase in retail sales means? It means that the retailers will have to reorder from the manufacturers creating job opportunities once again. This is reflected in the latest Commonwealth Employment Service figures. Job vacancies have increased. People should not view these indicators in isolation. They should look a little beyond. Most of them mean more jobs. The latest statistics- the Prime Minister alluded to this in his speech- indicate that the overtime rate has been going up for the last six or seven months. That is a forerunner to more job opportunities. When the overtime rate reaches a certain level, the next step is to employ more people. 
It has been said that the construction industry is in decline. I think that statement needs some clarification. The construction industry is no longer the important economic indicator that it used to be. In Australia today most people have dwellings. There is not the same need for them as there used to be. It is estimated that the need for dwellings is down by 25,000 units per annum. The construction industry, of course, cannot maintain the growth rate it has maintained since World War II. After World War II there was an unlimited market. The construction industry was able to build all the dwellings it wanted to build; there was a demand for them. That situation no longer exists. Certainly people will want to move from one dwelling to another. They want to change. But there are limitations on the number of new dwellings required. The construction of new dwellings is not longer an important economic indicator. To prove that people who need dwellings still have the money to buy them, I invite honourable members to look at the figures for alterations and additions to dwellings. There has certainly been no decline in those figures. 
There has been a turnaround in the rural industries. Thankfully, a lift in rural output has become evident over the last six months. This will be reflected in Australia 's economic outlook particularly in 1979-80. I do not think that people have yet fully realised the boost that the turnaround in the rural industries will provide to the domestic economy and the effect it will have on Australia's gross domestic product, the industrialised cities and jobs. People engaged in the rural community will have increased incomes. They need them; they are long overdue. That money will be spent on plant, ploughs, trucks, engines- things that come from the manufacturing sector. Wheat sales have been good. We have all heard about them. Almost every sector of the rural community is stable or better than stable. I cannot recall such a situation previously. The outlook is good in the wheat, beef and wool industries. The demands for other grains is good. Fifty-four per cent of Australia's total exports come from the rural sector. Therefore, a boost to that sector means a lot to the ordinary people. People often look at various figures produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. I want to refer to household disposable income. Sometimes one hears people in the streets saying that it is harder to live today; they do not have enough money. I think we will always say that because we are always selfish. But the fact today is that people have far more money and the Australian people are far more affluent than they have ever been. But the point is that we have more goods put at our disposal that we want to buy. We now have washing machines, colour television sets, boats, caravans and such things. The last figures of disposable household income that I have are for the September quarter 1978. They show a massive increase over the figures for the previous quarters. The Australian people are affluent and they are starting to benefit from the policies of this Government. 
I now mention briefly employment, not unemployment. We have the situation in which many job opportunities exist; yet we appear to have a deficiency. Perhaps that goes back to our education system that is not educating our young people to suit the jobs available. Honourable members would be well aware of the list of acceptable occupations for the purpose of immigration. It is a summary of the types of jobs that are always available in Australia. Hundreds of thousands of people are unemployed and it almost makes me cry when I look down this list to see that the same jobs are always on the listcoppersmiths, blacksmiths, machinists, motor mechanics and panel beaters. In fact I think over 400 occupations are listed. Yet at the same time we have unemployment. Something is wrong. Something is wrong with our education system. Employers will not take on apprentices. The apprentices of today will be the tradesmen of tomorrow. There is tremendous scope for tradesmen. 
The other day I had the opportunity of putting to the Government that apprentices in government schemes should be exempt from staff ceilings. I think it is wrong that the intake of apprentices by the Government is affected by staff ceilings. I should like this Government to exempt apprentices from staff ceilings so that the Government could at least do its part and take on more apprentices. The statistics of employment in other industries reflect the growing affluence of Australian people. Employment in community services, which comes from affluence, has increased by almost 142,000 people in four years. Employment in public administration and defence has increased by 30,000 people and employment in the entertainment and recreation field has gone up. There is a movement because of the demands of the Australian people in these fields. A study of those figures shows the affluence of the Australian people coming through. 
Many roads can be taken to economic recovery because recovery can be achieved in countless ways. But whatever results from such action, whatever the achievements are, we will still be talking of economic recovery. There is no perfect economy and there never can be. What can be achieved is a continuing improvement in living standards for the majority of Australian people. Although this goal has been and will continue to be achieved the inbuilt greed that we all have will rarely allow acknowledgements of such achievements. But those achievements are there. Those achievements have been made by this Government and those achievements will continue to be made and will be shared amongst the Australian people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I share some of the concerns that Opposition members have expressed in this debate this evening. But one thing that I cannot share with them and one thing that they all have in common is the continual knocking of the multinational or overseas companies that operate in Australia. Might I suggest that if this knocking of this foreign investment in this country is continued it will cause the same trouble that Labor caused in 1972 when it came into office. Foreign investment lost under Labor's policies threw hundreds of thousands of Australians out of work. 
When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  spoke earlier, he said that these companies can do all sort of things. He said that they can manufacture what they like. I know that this Government monitors the activities of these companies in the same way as Labor monitored their activities when it was in office between 1972 and 1975. Labor did not do anything then. It is all right for honourable members opposite to stand up and say: 'You do not know what they will do. They can do all sorts of things'. When Labor was in office it took no action. We are certainly monitoring the operations of these companies and we will continue to monitor their operations. We will make these companies honour their obligations to Australia. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also mentioned how international companies can transfer profits, and I have a concern about this. I want to see these companies show a fair profit in Australia. I want to see these companies pay their fair tax to Consolidated Revenue. As a result of my concern, I was pleased to find from some inquiries that Australian officials overseas have a pretty fair indication of the value of goods that are imported. I am talking about car manufacturers such as General Motors-Holden's Ltd that can import component parts from GMH subsidiaries. Our officials check to ensure that the value put on those parts is the true and correct value in the country of origin. So fair tax is paid; fair duty is paid. I invite any members of the Opposition to inspect thoroughly the comprehensive customs declarations that have to be signed and the information on the inquiries made to establish that imported goods are transferred at fair and reasonable profit. 
I am all for Australian manufacture. I am all for an Australian car. But one has to remember that Australia is a young country. Our country has a small population. It has a small production potential for cars. Australia does not have the facilities, nor is it economical for us, to design our own car completely. We do not have the facilities to test completely all component parts or a finished car in Australia. I might add that if honourable members looked at the tremendously increased industrialisation of Japan since World War II and studied how Japan was industrialised and made great strides forward, they would find that the Japanese too did not do their own design work. They crawled before they walked. They brought in design work from other countries. They had other countries test their manufactured products and then went ahead with production. Japan has now built itself up to a stage where it is strong industrially. Australia can reach that stage also, but we have not quite reached it yet. Nevertheless, I agree that we should strive to achieve it. 
The Australian market is very limited. If honourable members looked at the production of Australian cars over the past IS years they would find that the growth rate in the number produced has not averaged more than 3 per cent a year. It has stayed at that low level despite the high level of protection provided against fully imported cars- protection in the form of duty and in respect of the freight charges which have to be paid to get the cars to Australia. Massive protection has been provided, yet the Australian car industry has not been able to expand at any greater rate than 3 per cent per annum. Do these figures in themselves not tell us that reorganisation of the industry is necessary? That is exactly what this Government is doing. That is exactly why this Government has taken the decision to allow General Motors to go ahead with its $2 10m four-cylinder engine plant, a plant that will have the capacity to produce annually 240,000 engines, two-thirds of which General Motors says will be exported. Through our monitoring system this Government will be looking closely at the situation to make sure that that happens. 
This situation has been brought about by the high and rising cost of fuel and by the increasing demand for four-cylinder motors. As the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  explained in his statement, an export credit scheme that can be offset against imports will operate from March 1982. Within the arrangements allowing General Motors to go ahead with this scheme is the provision that, once the offsetting of credits for imports reaches a stage where it lowers the Australian content by only 5 per cent, an Industries Assistance Inquiry will be held before the situation goes any further. So there is an inbuilt safeguard in the arrangements which we have made with General Motors. 
I have some reservations and concerns about the whole situation. I have some concern about the haste in which the decision was made and I have some concern for the people engaged in the automotive components industry. I know full well that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  who is sitting at the table, will listen to these words and will make sure that the people in that industry are affected as little as possible. Jobs are involved and we must be sure that the people in this industry are protected by the new scheme and the arrangements that are made with General Motors. 
A lot of information still must come forward and hopefully it will emerge over the next few months. We want to know and the Australian component manufacturers want to know which of the component parts of the engine, parts such as valves, rings, pistons, conrods and crank shafts, are to be manufactured locally. All this information is vital to the Australian components industry. I know full well that the components industry is a large employer of people, but it is not going to be destroyed by this decision. Plants throughout Australia employ many thousands of people. One that is dear to me in my electorate of Barton- namely, the Bendix company- recently had the misfortune of having one of its customers alter its imported component. The company lost some contracts for carburettors, but it has been able to regroup and is still a major components supplier to the Australian industry. 
As I have said, this is a good scheme and it will be good for the future of Australia. It will be monitored closely and in a manner which shows concern for the Australian components industry. I know that members of the Opposition tonight have expressed concern for the components industry and I appreciate their doing so. I welcome the decision by the Government in favour of the establishment of this plant. I am sure that in the long run it will help Australia to remain competitive in the Australian car manufacturing industry and, as many honourable members have said , by being competitive in the Australian car manufacturing industry it will put a stop to the tremendous number of cars which are coming into Australia today. I welcome the decision. 
-This legislation, of course, highlights the continuing effort by this Government in its fight against artificially contrived tax avoidance schemes. I am sure that the majority of people throughout Australia who honestly accept their tax obligations will welcome the Government's effort in the continuing fight against tax avoidance. 
I enjoyed many of the remarks made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  The honourable member suggested that the Government should take the bit between its teeth and conduct a concerted and effective attack against tax avoidance. I agree with that. I point out to the honourable member that the attack on tax avoidance taken by this Government since it came to office in 1975 is greater than that of any other government since Federation. I think the Government is to be applauded for the way in which it has brought down legislation, sometimes unpopular legislation, to counteract this dreadful tax avoidance business. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand also made mention of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. He said that perhaps we should do something about that section. I am sure that before the Parliament rises at the end of this session the honourable member will find that legislation will be introduced to rectify the problem about which he spoke. Section 260 needs to be strengthened. I am sure that the Government recognises that fact and that it will strengthen that part of the legislation. 
The Government of which the honourable gentleman was a supporter did nothing about it. The honourable member for Gellibrand spent much of his time on the subject of trusts. I must admit that I have great reservations about the genuine use of trusts. I dislike the use of trusts that are contrived purely for tax avoidance purposes. The Government recognises that this practice exists. However, we must remember that trusts may be formed in genuine circumstances and we must be careful that in our attack on tax avoidance schemes, and in particular our attack on trusts, we remember that genuine trusts have a very necessary and continuing place in our system today. When I speak of genuine trusts, I basically refer to those trusts that are formed following the death of a parent where minor children are involved or perhaps the death of a relation where a trust is formed to provide accommodation and living expenses for other relations. I could give many examples of the circumstances in which genuine trusts are very necessary. We must be very careful in our fight against tax avoidance and particularly trusts that we recognise this fact. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand also mentioned the fact that we should ban advertising of tax avoidance schemes and, quite honestly, I think this is an excellent idea. It is perhaps something which could be followed up by the Government. I am sickened to see advertisements of this sort which are not used today to the extent they were some time ago. Two years ago one could pick up a certain newspaper that has an Australia-wide circulation and read hundreds of advertisements which put forward tax avoidance schemes. This sort of advertising is so demoralising to the people who genuinely pay tax. It is certainly sickening to have to put up with advertisements like this that just absolutely flout the tax laws and which are taken up usually by those people who can best afford to pay their fair share of tax. I think the suggestion put forward by the honourable member that these schemes be outlawed is an excellent one. I know from experience and from talking to people that advertisements such as these go a long way towards creating an idea in a person's mind that he can go along to a professional person, pay a fee which is tax deductible in any case and take advantage of one of these schemes that does nothing else but rob the Australian taxpayer. 
As I have said, already the Fraser Government has introduced legislation in this continuing war against tax avoidance schemes which will effectively bring to an end artificially created schemes. Already we have brought down legislation which deals with share trading losses. This legislation, which was introduced in June of last year, relates to what is commonly known as the Curran scheme. I am sure that members of the Opposition welcomed that legislation. We have already brought down legislation that deals with dividend stripping in an area where millions of dollars were being channelled away from government revenue. Of course, when money is channelled away from government revenue it has to be made up by the people- someone has to pay. Last year we dealt with the issue of tax free bonus snares. This practice had become a very common way for companies to distribute profits in a tax free manner. We rectified the exploitation of primary producer averaging by people who are not bona fide primary producers. We dealt with the reimbursement of dividends under which loan back arrangements are made. We also corrected anomalies in the sales tax scheme where sales tax was being avoided in the purchase of major capital items. We also rectified the abuse of gift provisions. When one looks at that list of achievements, it is very difficult for someone to stand up and say that this Government has been inactive in the tax avoidance area. 
I would now like to refer to the legislation before the House. This Bill of course, is the result of a statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in April last year. The Treasurer has adopted the attitude of making a statement as soon as he identifies an avoidance scheme. Legislation is then introduced. People are given a warning of what is proposed and no one can cry about retrospectivity. The legislation we are now considering covers the prepayment of interest and rent. There have been tremendous opportunities in recent years for the prepayment of interest, particularly since 1974 when many companies engaged in property development crashed. At that time companies, especially finance companies, suffered big losses. People in business who suffer a loss have been able to secure a loan from a company and immediately pay the lot back in interest. This arrangement suited the company that had the large accumulated loss because the payment of tax was not involved. Also, a tax deduction was created for the person who was securing the loan. This practice has accelerated over recent years. I am pleased to say that this legislation proposes to rectify the situation. Therefore the Bill we have before us covers the prepayment of interest and the prepayment of rent. It also covers the situation in which a person manufactures a tax deduction. As I said, as often as not these prepayments are a tax deduction for something that really is an item of capital expenditure. I am pleased to be able to say that the legislation covering these matters will be back dated to 19 April 1978, the date on which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made his statement. 
The legislation also picks up other arranged schemes between associated enterprises in which a tax deduction is created for one party while at the same time the other party receives a monetary gain in a non-taxable form. This legislation goes a long way towards abolishing the known tax avoidance schemes that have been identified thus far by the Government. The second part of this Bill deals with the accumulation of trusts from profit derived from an overseas source. Honourable members will recall that the Government has already brought down legislation to deal with the return of profits from overseas sources. The legislation picks up the fact that trusts have been created to hold these profits that are derived from overseas sources in a tax free form. The High Court of Australia recently determined that foreign source income earned by an Australian resident could be accumulated in a trust without being liable for the payment of Australian tax. Tax would be payable if and when the income from such a trust was distributed to a resident beneficiary. However, often no distribution is necessary and consequently the payment is either delayed or never made. The Australian Government has been placed in a situation of not being able to get the tax which is rightfully due to it from such a source. 
Clause 2 of the Bill will require that the net income of a trust be calculated on the same basis as if it were the income of a resident individual. This covers the situation of a trust that is accumulating money from an overseas source so that the same rights exist in respect of trusts as exist in respect of an individual who is accumulating profits from an overseas investment. Foreign income is still subject to measures that prevent the payment of double tax. They have been in operation for some time. Australia, quite correctly, has arrangements with other countries so that people are not placed in a situation of having to pay tax in the country where they have their investment and also pay tax at the full rate in Australia. There is an arrangement to cover double taxing so the total tax paid is equivalent to the maximum Australian tax rate. 
As I have said, genuine business enterprises need not fear the Government's drive against tax avoidance. In fact, the Government's action in this area is necessary so it can continue with its promised reforms in taxation and eliminate tax avoidance schemes. The Government's drive against the tax avoidance industry will allow it to go ahead with taxation reforms that will benefit all genuine Australian taxpayers who choose to pay tax in an honest manner. Honourable members will be aware that as from July 1976 we were able to introduce personal income tax indexation. It is a well known fact that the Labor Government refused to do this. As a result of our initiative Australian taxpayers are paying $3 billion less than they would have paid under the old scheme. Every year that we proceed with tax indexation, as a result of our drive against tax avoidance, we save the Australian taxpayer $1 billion. 
Since the Government has been in power it has been able to increase the minimum income level which is exempt from tax. The annual income at which the exemption applies has been lifted from $1,000 to $3,893. We have also been successful in simplifying the tax scale from seven steps which existed when we came to power to the three simpler steps that apply now. I make this point because without a drive against tax avoidance and against those people who want to flout the tax rules, these reforms will not be possible. With the continuation of our drive against the tax avoidance industry and the affectiveness of a rewriting of section 260 of the Act later this year, hopefully these reforms will be continued and the genuine taxpayers of Australia will benefit. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand cited some statistics which tended to show that the number of Australians paying personal income tax has increased at a far greater rate than the number of Australians paying company tax and other forms of taxation outside the personal income tax field. It is interesting to look at some taxation figures. They show that since this Government has been in power, the Australian people have been paying less tax than they previously paid. In 1973-74, 28.6 per cent more tax was collected than in the previous year. In 1974-75- our Government was not in power then- the total tax collected was 29.5 per cent over and above that collected in the previous year. In 1975-76, the increase in tax collected over that collected in the previous year dropped to 19.6 per cent. In 1976-77, when our tax reforms started to bite, the increase dropped to 16.9 per cent. I am proud to say that in 1977-78- the last full year for which we have figures- the increase in tax collection dropped to 8.7 per cent. The increase in total tax collections last year was only a quarter of the increase that occurred between 1972 and 1975 when the Labor Government was in power. It is important to note that the figures I have cited do not contain an adjustment for inflation. If we take into account an adjustment for inflation, total tax collections last year in real terms, as opposed to an increase in previous years, showed a decline of 0. 1 per cent. This Government, through its efforts to stop tax avoidance, has been able to carry on with these tax reforms which will benefit the Australian people. They will benefit the people who are honestly and sincerely operating businesses and paying their fair tax. I speak particularly of those people who by far represent the majority of the Australian people. I hope that our program to eliminate tax avoidance and our drive against tax avoidance do not strike fear and uncertainty into their hearts. In fact, these people should be heartened to know that they will be on a fair and competitive ground with those people who for so long have resorted to the use of tax avoidance schemes. I support the Bill. 
Has the Prime Minister seen recent reports stating that economic indicators are tilting in the wrong direction? Is this an accurate assessment of current economic conditions in Australia? 

 -Mr Speaker, I enter this debate deeply regretting the fact that there is no opportunity for women to have an input into this discussion now before us. In issues like this I can see the advantages that would occur if we had some female members of the House of Representatives. Nevertheless, I have carefully considered the issues and listened to the debate. Although I have no hesitation in supporting the Lusher motion, I do recognise that some arguments exist for the legalisation of abortion. Particularly, I have some sympathies with the amendments which have been put forward. I ask honourable members to consider carefully the likely implications of this decision that they are going to take today, because I do not think it is an issue on just stopping the payments for abortions. I think that whatever decision this Parliament makes today will be something that all State parliaments and all law enforcement agencies throughout Australia will hide behind. 
I do not think honourable members realise the seriousness of the implications that will come from this decision. Already the Premiers of two States have suggested to honourable members that they should vote in a particular way. I can foresee serious implications where people will hide behind the decision of this Federal Government. State law enforcement authorities will hide behind the decision, and I can see that if honourable members do not vote for the Lusher motion, abortions will continue in the present haphazard manner of today. I am sorry to say it, but I can almost visualise an abortion supermarket if the Lusher motion is not passed. 
It is interesting to look at all the correspondence that honourable members have had. It has been vast. I have endeavoured to read as much of it as I possibly can. I suppose that the one piece of correspondence we should look at is one of the more authoritative is that which comes from the Australian Medical Association. It is rather interesting to see that in the letter which the Association sent out to members it admits that the views of its members on termination of pregnancy are as varied as those of the rest of the community. 
We do have an important decision to make. In the time allocated it is impossible to speak on all the issues raised. However, I would like to dwell on a few that I feel have a major bearing on the subject. The political interference in the private lives of people should only be applied sparingly in extreme cases. Laws and regulations are needed, however, when it is necessary to protect people from each other. Of course today that is exactly what we are doing. We are trying to protect people from each other, because I do not think there is any doubt that we are dealing with a situation of a mother and a baby who still has life. It is rather interesting, when one looks at all the evidence that has been put before this Parliament by honourable members, that there is not really any shadow of doubt that life does begin soon after conception. 
The passing of this motion will still enable doctors to freely exercise their judgment regarding the medical need of the patient, the mother. The life of the mother will still be protected from the effects of physical pathological condition. The Lusher motion allows for that. The AMA has also said that the acceptance of such a proposal, as it is moved here, will require doctors to provide health funds and the Government with a diagnosis of their patient's condition where a claim is made for the termination of pregnancy. This claim is highly exaggerated and in fact such circumstances would only emerge in extreme and rare instances, if at all. 
I should refer the House to the legislation which already exists in South Australia, where a form has to be completed by medical practitioners regarding the termination of pregnancy. There has been no complaint by the doctors in this regard. I do not see how they can bring up this bogy now. The Lusher motion ensures that taxpayers' money is spent wisely. But as I said, this motion goes far beyond that. I would think it appropriate to refer briefly to an article which appeared in a leading Sydney newspaper on 10 March. I want to switch to this article because it deals with the results of a survey supposedly conducted of Catholic women at St Vincents Hospital, Sydney, by a  Dr J.  A. Johnson. The article I refer to appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  It is headed: 'Catholic Abortion Rate High'. I want to refer to this article because some members in this debate have already referred to it. I view this article and this survey with grave suspicion. Part of the article states: 
The report compiled by  Dr J.  A. Johnson while research director of the Family Planning Centre at St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney . . . 
In another part it goes on to say: 

 Dr Johnson, who has since resigned his post to direct a medical service in Glebe . . . 
As I said, I regard this article with grave suspicion because I have evidence that shows first of all that  Dr Johnson  is not a doctor of medicine but a doctor of philosophy and a  Dr Johnson  was heavily involved in the proabortion campaign in 1977 in New Zealand. I have a letter from the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child. In part it reads:  . . In 1977 the New Zealand Royal Commission on Contraception, Sterilisation and Abortion handed a report to Parliament which proposed that the unborn child was entitled to effective legal protection in any abortion laws laid down in this country. 
The letter goes on to say: 
During September and October 1977 a  Dr Tony  Johnson visited New Zealand and travelled around the country addressing meetings on behalf of NZ's pro-abortion lobby. 
This is the same  Dr Johnson  who did a survey at St Vincent's Hospital, supposedly a survey of Catholic women, referring to their abortions. I have a newsletter from the Abortion Law Reform Association, Christchurch Branch, New Zealand. Under the heading 'Recent Events' it states: 
The evening of 6 October saw the Ngaio Marsh Theatre filled to capacity for a combined . . . meeting. 
The guest  speaker  was  Dr Tony  Johnson . . . 
Again that is the same  Dr Johnson  who reported this supposed survey of Catholic women at St Vincent's Hospital. I think that there are grounds to view this survey with grave suspicion. I come back to the issue before us at the moment. It is hard to condone the numbers of abortions that are taking place in Australia today- 60,000- when Australia has a need for population, when Australia has a birth rate which has shrunk to its lowest level. In 1977 there were only 16.08 births per 1,000 people, which is lower than the depression years of 1934. The abortion rate in Australia is two and a half times that of the United Kingdom. Australia's abortion rate is the same as that of the United States where there is abortion on demand. I think it is a shame when we in Australia have families deprived of being able to have children and there are years and years of waiting to be able to adopt a child. We have a situation where out of a total population growth of 200,000-odd per annum, 60,000 babies are being slaughtered needlessly. I have sympathies for the mothers, I have sympathies for the surrounding circumstances when a lot of these abortions occur and a lot of babies are conceived, but it is very difficult to condone such a high rate of mass slaughter. 
I have the misfortune of having an abortion clinic very close to my electorate. Called the Arncliffe Centre, it is across the road from the Rosslyn Private Hospital. On two days in February I was able to conduct a survey and view all the girls going into this centre. Between 30 and 35 girls go into this Arncliffe Centre each day. When I conducted this survey I wanted to check the connection between the Arncliffe centre and the Rosslyn Private Hospital. I was horrified to find that the Federal Government, because of the regulations under State laws, is subsidising the Rosslyn Private Hospital to the extent of $16 per day per bed. To back up the connection between the Rosslyn Private Hospital and the Arncliffe Centre I will cite my report of what happened each day. On 14 February between 8.30 a.m. and 4 p.m. 35 women entered the Centre. On 2 1 February between 8.30 a.m. and 3.30 p.m. 30 women entered the centre. Each day a group of girls went from the Rosslyn Private Hospital to the Arncliffe Centre. On 21 February one of these groups included five girls accompanied by a nurse. They went to the Centre at about 1 p.m. and at 3 p.m. three girls returned to the hospital. 
I am horrified that we are paying money, $16 per day per bed, in an institution where abortions are being carried out. I give that as an example of the chaotic situation of the abortion industry in Australia today. Coming back to the original Lusher motion, I support it fully. I appeal to members of this Parliament: If you vote against the Lusher motion you are opening the gates to abortion throughout Australia. As I have said before, every State government will hide behind our decision. It is a decision we should consider carefully. We do not want to open the gates to abortion in Australia. We do not want an abortion supermarket. 
Can the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs provide any information showing trends in the labour force based on more recent statistics than the March figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and refers to the 9.7 per cent interest rate on the conversion loan, which was announced yesterday. What effect will the new interest rate have on overall interest rates within the Australian community? Is the announcement consistent with the Government's economic policy? 

 Mr HOWARD The interest rates which were announced yesterday as a result of receiving Australian Loan Council approval reflect movements which have occurred in the bond market since the announcement earlier this year of the terms of the February loan. I think the honourable member will be aware that it is not my practice to make quantitative predictions about the impact of decisions about official interest rates on interest rates in the private sector. However, I can say to the honourable member for Barton that, obviously, the interest rate relates to a conversion loan only and the markets involved are different from the markets involved in building society and bank interest rates. The relationships between movements in the long-term bond rate and movements in those more sensitive areas is far less direct than is the case with movements in interest rates on Australian savings bonds. 
I cannot and I will not give any guarantee about the status of private sector interest rates, except to repeat what I said at the time that the Australian savings bond rate was lifted a few weeks ago, namely, that the question of whether an adjustment in building society and bank interest rates is necessary depends entirely upon fund flows into and out of those institutions and that until there were developments in that area it was a matter of waiting and seeing. The interest rate set for the conversion loan reflects the determination of the Government to respond to market movements as far as its official rates are concerned. The pitching of the bond rate at 9.7 per cent is consistent with that practice and it fully dovetails with the moves currently under way towards adopting a full tap and tender system for the sale of Commonwealth securities. 
I wish to express my deep concern arising from the continuing publicity regarding steel belted radial tyres. Criticism of these tyres stems from the recall of steel belted radial tyres in the United States in mid- 1978, when some 14,000 tyre failures were detected in a well known and long established make of tyre. 
Order! There is no substance to the point of order. 
Subsequent to this publicity, criticism of the steel belted radial tyres used on the Australian market has gathered momentum in the Press, on radio programs, and in various Parliaments. I am concerned that such publicity may be creating a serious road safety problem and stems from a background hardly worthy of such community reaction. Criticism of these tyres may well be creating consumer reluctance to benefit from the superior safety and other advantages available from the use of this product. Perhaps the best test of appreciation of radial tyres is to seek comment from a motorist who has had the unfortunate experience of driving on ordinary cross-ply tyres after having used radial tyres. Radial tyres provide vastly improved road-holding qualities under both cornering and braking conditions. They are second to none for wet-weather handling and provide safer use at highway speeds due to cooler running. As an added bonus, they provide a small fuel saving over ordinary tyres. 
-We have already proceeded a considerable way through this debate and it is interesting to note that the Opposition has been completely negative in its attack. Not one positive suggestion has been made by the Opposition members who have spoken. Considering that more than 10 members of the Opposition- 30 per cent of its strengthhave spoken in this debate and that their attitude to such an important issue is so negative, is it any wonder that not many consider it to be an alternative government. There are examples of that everywhere. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  challenged the Government to say what part of this package guarantees full employment. No part of this package guarantees full employment but the package in itself guarantees increased employment. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne Ports laughs. I challenge him and other honourable members opposite who have spoken in this debate to say what there is in what they have said that would guarantee full employment for Australia. Their whole argument has been completely negative. As I have said, it amounts to nothing. It is unfortunate that the Government has had to come forward with a package such as this. But it spreads the burden amongst the people and will lead to brighter economic prospects. The 1979-80 Budget will be a brighter budget and an extremely brighter Budget will be introduced in 1980-81. Both Budgets will be brighter because they will have the benefit of the sound foundation which was given to the economy of Australia last Thursday night by the Treasurer (  Mr Howard  ). 
I talk about the package being even-handed because it places a small burden on all sections of the Australian community. It hits the business community. Alterations have been made to the stock valuation account. Alterations have been made concerning carry forward losses. That will put a small burden on the business community. It will also put a small burden on the mining community. The coal export levy has been extended and the crude oil levies have been increased. The package hits at public expenditure. The Treasurer has stated that governments should be prepared to spend less of the taxpayers money. The package hit at the rural community. It withdrew certain privileges and financial advantages from that community. Of course, it hit at us all through the extension of the personal income tax levy of 1.5c in the dollar- not 1.5 per cent, as many members of the Opposition have said. 
I know that 1 .5c in the dollar represents almost a 5 per cent increase in income tax. But I would like to explain, as honourable members of the Opposition are misrepresenting the Government's package, that it does not mean that any member of the Australian public will have to pay more tax over the five months from July to November. The tax rates will be the same and the amount of deductions from pay packets will be the same. No one will be paying an increased amount of tax a week between July and November. 
Never mind about what I said. If the honourable member listens to what I am saying he will find that I am correctly stating the position. Let us talk about the Australian Labor Party's record. I hate to be negative and talk about its record but it is necessary to point out, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  mentioned this morning in answer to a question, that the Labor Party increased income tax by 125 per cent in the three years in which it was in office. The Opposition almost had record inflation. Inflation for the same period was only 50 per cent. So look at the deal that the Opposition gave to the Australian public. There was increase in income tax of 125 per cent over three years and an increase in inflation over those three years of only 50 per cent. 
Opposition members are touchy alright. They are also touchy about tax avoidance. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  who is sitting there at the table knows the tremendous amount of work that we have done on tax avoidance. What did members of the Australian Labor Party do? Nothing at all. But they sit there and say that we do nothing. This Government has been a great government of tax reform and it has done its duty to the Australian people in regard to tax avoidance. I have a table here showing some of this Government's tax record. It brought in personal income tax indexation, the standard rate of taxation and much of the antiavoidance tax legislation. At the same time the record of this Government clearly shows that the amount of personal income tax collection, as a percentage increase over the previous year, has declined. The table shows personal income tax increases over the last 10 years. Of course, honourable members will see that in the year 1973-74- we know which government was in office in that year- personal income tax collections increased by 20. 1 per cent over the previous year. In 1974-75- once again we know who was in government at that time- personal income tax collections increased by 19.9 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate this table, prepared by the Treasury, in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905281_60_4.jpg"></graphic>

) Collections of PA YE and other individuals income tax less PA YE refunds (Statement No. 6 attached to the Budget Speech ). 
Budget Paper 9 and Australian National Accounts, 1976-77. 
Budget  estimate  of collections. Deflator assumes a 7.0 per cent increase in line with the discussion in Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech. 
I thank the House. I move now to some of the reasons for necessity of the package which was brought down last Thursday night. I think it is fair to mention the selfishness of many sections of the Australian community. It is also fair to mention that the desires of all the different sections of the Australian community cannot possibly be satisfied. Perhaps it is time that we should sit down and think of all those sections of the Australian community that needfinancial assistance. I do not deny their need for it, but I want to point out the impossibility of satisfying all of the financial desires of the Australian community. Let us start by mentioning a few of those sections of the community, not necessarily in order. 
Recently the Australian Broadcasting Commission informed us that it wants more funds. I do not deny it these funds. Students want freedom from university fees to continue. They want more generous tertiary education assistance. Let us look at education generally which is administered by the States. The States want additional funds for better facilities and reductions in student/teacher ratios. Let us take a look at health. People want free health benefits, more money for hospitals and a continuation of funds for regional health centres. The aged is a group in the community that I have great sympathy for. As we all know, the aged want the restoration of twice yearly pension rises and pensions increased to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Public Service wants staff ceilings abolished. Those people who support overseas aid want overseas aid to disadvantaged countries increased to 2 per cent of total Budget spending. Those people concerned with defence of our nation want defence expenditure increased to 3.5 per cent of the gross domestic product, an increase in expenditure of $ 1 billion per annum. Local government wants us to honour our promise- I hope we will- to increase its share of personal income tax collections from 1.52 per cent to 2 per cent. But if that is granted it will want 5 per cent. Taxpayers want removal of the surcharge and the implementation of full indexation. Businesses want the removal of division 7 tax. I sympathise with all these desires of the community, but I put them forward just to show the absolute impossibility of any government to provide the needs of the community, whether it is a Liberal government or a Labor government- God help us. There is no way in which any government can fully provide the needs of the community. That is why I am pleased that this Government has come down with a package that is economically sound because it is best for the Australian community. Let me talk about the increase in confidence in the Australian economy. Most of the economic package revolves around increasing confidence. Much of the argument put up by the Opposition would indicate that there is no confidence at all in the Australian community at the moment. That is absolute rubbish. The Opposition knows it is rubbish because all of the indicators that are coming forward at the moment fully disclose that the Australian economy is on the verge of very rapid recovery. 
I will talk about indicators, as the honourable member for Wills asks. Let us talk about the indicators of manufacturing forecasts. They forecast the most improved conditions seen for the last 10 years. Let us talk about improved retail sales. The figures show that the December quarter was a record quarter and that the March quarter was a record quarter. I wonder if the honourable member for Wills reads the Australian Bureau of Statistics report. Look at our improved trade balances. Let us talk about the stability of interest rates, and they are stable. Does the honourable member for Wills deny that interest rates are now lower than when the Labor Government was in office between 1972 and 1975? Let us consider another sore point. The Opposition talks about unemployment. I sympathise with the unemployed, but has the Opposition recently looked at the figures of those people who are employed? Has the Opposition looked at the increased employment figures? For may years the number of those employed in the manufacturing industries, the number one indicator, has substantially increased. In the March quarter building approvals for home dwellings increased substantially. And the honourable member for Wills asks: 'Which indicators show an increase and an improved economy?' I tell the honourable member for Wills that there are countless numbers of indicators that show that the economy is on the mend. I come to the employment figures that he challenged me on. Only today the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  released statement 54/79. It reads: 
The number of civilian employees in March 1979 was estimated to be 4,772,700 persons- an increase of 19,600 persons over the February 1979 figure. In seasonally adjusted terms, there was an increase of 8, 100 . . . 
In the same statement in relation to employment it is stated: 
Since June 1978 the total rise, in seasonally adjusted terms, has been 56,200. 
Members of the Australian Labor Party ask: 'What indicators show an improved economy?' The people of Australia listening to this debate will know that the indicators of the economy paint a rosy picture. They will remember the negative speeches of 30 per cent of Opposition speakers earlier tonight. I challenge those honourable members who follow me to mention at least one thing of a positive nature. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr West)  adjourned. 
The Treasurer would be aware of recent speculation regarding possible shortfalls in government budgetary revenue. Will he supply any up-to-date information which may confirm the current and correct financial situation? 
I take the opportunity to explain to the people of Australia, and in particular to the people of New South Wales, the generosity of Federal funding to State governments over the last four years. I do this because the New South Wales Government and New South Wales parliamentarians seem to use with regular monotony the excuse of a lack of Federal funds when they choose not to proceed with a program. They choose to use the excuse that no money is available. The New South Wales Government- this is typical of all State governments throughout Australia- has ample funds and has been most generously treated by the Federal Government over the last four years. I realise that at times the federalism policy of this Government is difficult for people to understand, because it involves both tied and untied grants. Federalism is a policy that ensures that the States receive a fair and increasing proportion of personal income tax revenue while at the same time ensuring that untied funds made available to various governments increase so that those governments can choose their own priorities in the spending of those funds. 
The anxiety that has been caused over the recent months to the people in my own electorate has been quite unnecessary. I shall refer to a number of such incidents. The one to which I draw particular attention is the so-called cuts in funds by the New South Wales Government to various hospitals in that State. In my electorate the staff and patients in the Calvary Hospital- a well respected and efficiently operated hospitalwere caused great distress by an announcement of cut-backs in funding and rumours that that hospital would not.be able to continue to operate. The excuse given for those cut-backs was lack of Federal funding. That is far from the truth. I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows the extent of Federal funding to the State of New South Wales for the last four years, from 1975-76 to 1978-79. 1 have already sought the approval of the Opposition. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

The table shows that the amount of funding to New South Wales has been continually increased. It has received adequate funding. The percentage of increase has more than covered the rate of inflation. The New South Wales Government has been provided with sufficient funds to go ahead with existing programs, or even to expand those programs. An examination of the table reveals that over that four-year period funds made available to the New South Wales Government increased by 44.3 per cent. When one looks at the total increase in Federal revenue during that period one sees that the generosity of the Government is further highlighted. The Federal Government's revenue during that time increased by only 39.9 per cent. But the New South Wales Government continues to complain about lack of funding. Compare the New South Wales deficit with the Federal deficit. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  another table. It shows the difference in the deficits over the last five years. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908230_24_3.jpg"></graphic>

In analysing this table honourable members will see that over the last five years the New South Wales Government has incurred virtually no deficit while the Federal deficit has been massive. The Fraser Government has been forced to take unpopular decisions to arrest its deficit while the generosity of its funding has allowed the New South Wales Government to get away with having virtually no budget deficit. This situation has occurred throughout Australia. All State governments virtually have been able to balance their budgets while the Federal Budget has been a tremendous problem. As a further example of the hollowness of the claims on lack of funding of the various 
State governments I refer to the increase in State and Federal public services. In this regard I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a third table which clearly shows the increase in the New South Wales Public Service since 1974 as opposed to the increase in the Federal Public Service. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

This table clearly shows that in the period I have just mentioned the New South Wales Public Service increased by 41,000 employees while the Federal Public Service increased by 13,000. It is staggering to realise that the size of the New South Wales Public Service alone is almost to the stage of being equal to the Federal Public Service. Today there are 383,000 New South Wales public servants while throughout Australia there are 389,000 Commonwealth public servants. At the rate at which the New South Wales Public Service is growing I would not doubt that even now the total number of people employed by the New South Wales Public Service has exceeded the number employed by the Commonwealth Public Service. 
This trend causes me great concern and I think it should cause the Australian taxpayer great concern. In Australia five years ago one person in four was a public servant. Today the ratio is almost one person in three. In making that statement I do not deny the existence of public services. They are excellent organisations. Public servants are necessary to provide and maintain services throughout the community. But I am concerned about the trend that is developing because, as everyone in this House would realise, it is the taxes provided by the private sector that must maintain and support the public sector. Both sectors are necessary to each other but an imbalance creates hardships for both. It creates hardship particularly for the Australian taxpayer. 
I put forward this argument today, particularly about the New South Wales Government and its continual desire to hide behind lack of funding when it does not choose to proceed with a project, because this excuse has been misused. 
As I said, this situation is causing great concern to the people of the community. This sort of thing is happening in other major expenditure areas. I do not have time to go into those but I particularly mention education. Federal Members of Parliament from New South Wales continually receive letters, petitions and objections from people in the community who have been hoodwinked into thinking that any lack of funding for education is the fault of this Government. The tables I have had incorporated clearly shows that there has been no lack of Federal funding. It is up to State governments throughout Australia to accept their responsibilities, determine their priorities and choose their areas of expenditure. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the constitutional conference taking place in London at the present time on the future of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia. Does the Prime Minister share the view expressed that this is 'the last chance for negotiated peace in that country'? 
It is my pleasure to join those of my colleagues who have already spoken to support the Budget brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard ) a little over three weeks ago. I support it enthusiastically. I emphasise the word 'enthusiastically' because this Budget is the climax of the firm decisions and sound economic management which were so necessary if all Australians were to benefit following the disastrous period of economic recklessness of the 1972-1975 Labor Government and the instability resulting from those black years. The challenge of sound economic restoration is a difficult job. Certainly the economic situation of the past has been difficult to control. In the implementation of sound management, reluctantly we have had to break some promises. Our hard and often unpopular decisions are now being rewarded. An atmosphere in which these promises can now be carried out is being restored. Thankfully, sound judgment has prevailed and even though at times we have been tempted to vary this sound judgement, all Australians will benefit from the determination of the Prime Minister (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer and my fellow Government members. Because of this Government's policies the inflation spiral is winding down and the people of this country will reap the benefits in the years to come. The people in my own electorate of Barton and the people in the electorates of all members will reap the benefits and the results of this sound management in the years to come. 
Perhaps the black year of 17 per cent inflation is now too far behind us to remember the difficulties that were foisted on to the people of Australia. Uncontrolled inflation affected all of us but, in particular, it affected those who had least. They suffered the most. Today the future is brighter. Inflation is controlled and stability is with us. Interest rates have fallen and investment has increased. The profitability of enterprises throughout our land has improved. The steady inflow of overseas funds provides confirmation that Australia is now judged internationally as a sound place for investment. People may well say: All this is fine for business, but how will it affect the average Australian? How will the average Australian benefit?' The answer is simple. Increased business activity and increased investments mean more work and more jobs. The improved profitability to which I have referred lifts the confidence of potential investors and, through increased tax collections, provides greater revenue to the Government so that this can be shared by young students, our senior citizens, returned veterans, the sick and those who through various circumstances are in need. Greater revenue also provides the necessary basis to carry out government projects such as the building of roads and bridges, water conservation programs to develop our vast dry interior and ports to handle our growing exports. Last but not least, increased revenue ensures adequate funds to our States, to our territories and to our local municipalities and shires to continue to provide those services on which we all rely. 
I wish to dwell briefly on that point because I am proud to be associated with the decision of the Government to increase the personal tax sharing percentage to local governments throughout Australia from 1.52 percent to 1.75 per cent. In New South Wales alone local governments will share $80.9m in the 1979-80 year. This is a remarkable increase on the previous $65.4m. In my own electorate there are three municipalities. The municipality of Hurstville will receive about an extra $90,000. The municipality of Kogarah will receive almost $60,000. The municipality of Rockdale will receive $130,000. These additional funds are going to the municipalities in my own electorate of Barton. The same additional funding which applies to the electorates of all members of this Parliament means that better services will be provided to the people, with little risk of rate increases being excessive and beyond the means of people to pay. 
I mention the increased funds going to the State governments throughout Australia. In particular, the State Government of New South Wales benefits handsomely from the generosity of this Government. Total grants to the State of New South Wales in this Budget- I think this is particularly important because of the continual scream from the Wran Government in New South Wales, that it is supposedly being hampered by the lack of Federal Government funds, when it does not proceed with programsamount to $2,87 lm. That is a total increase over the previous year of 13 per cent, an increase far in excess of the inflation rate and one that can be described only as generous on the part of the Federal Government. Included in that amount is $ 1,667m which is absolutely untied; it is money which the New South Wales Government can provide, through its own priorities, to any service that requires it. That untied amount alone is an increase of 14 per cent. Once again it is far in excess of the inflation rate and is very generous to the State of New South Wales. The same generosity is applied by the Federal Government to the other States throughout Australia. 
There is ample evidence that confirms beyond doubt the improving economy of Australia today. Let us look at some of these indicators because they are there. They are in official statistics. One has only to look at that dreadful thing called the gross national product of Australia; to put in layman's terms, it means the total sales of 
Australia as a business. Total sales have risen consistently in real terms. Today the GNP of Australia confirms the improving economy of Australia. What about our official reserves? The latest statistics from the Reserve Bank of Australia as at July this year, so they are quite current, show that the value of the official reserve assets totalled $3,885m at the end of June, a rise of $660m over the previous 12 months. Those reserves are the highest that Australia has ever had. 
The honourable member for Parramatta is concerned about reserves. Let us look at the interest rates and see whether he is concerned about those for the people of Australia. On average, the official interest rates in Australia are down  Vi  per cent. Let us refer to the same statistics and see how the current interest rates in Australia compare with those of our overseas competitors. Bank overdraft interest rates in Australia are currently running at 10.5 per cent. The interest rates on borrowings for home loans through savings banks vary between 8.75 per cent and 9.5 per cent. Current statistics show that the average bank lending interest rate in the United States of America is 1 1.65 per cent. The current interest rate for bank lending in the United Kingdom is now at the high level of 1 5 per cent. In Japan- a country with an economy that we tend to look up to and admire- the average interest rate of 10.62 per cent is higher than the interest rate in Australia today. 
In recent months overseas capital inflow has been running at an average rate of $2 50m a month. Once again, that confirms Australia's standing on the international scene. The  Australian Financial Review  of 11 September contains an article headed 'Budget scoring points with foreign business'. I shall read the first sentence of that article. 
It was written by Christopher Jay. It stated: 
While  Mr Eric  Risstrom - 
I will have a little more to say about that gentleman shortly-  may have taken the gloss off the Federal Government's Budget presentation . . . indications are that overseas business interests have welcomed the generally tight approach to economic management. 
That article went on to tell us how overseas companies want to invest money in Australia today. I think that is just another indication of our economic future. There are many other indications. We can look at the statistics for average overtime worked. They might be meaningless to many people but overtime means money for Australian people. Average overtime worked is also a very clear and immediate indicator that industry is working. Today the average overtime worked in a week is three hours. It has not been at that level for many years. In the dark days of Labor's rule that figure got down to 1.6 hours. That is just another indicator. 
It is clearly known that Australia has achieved a marked improvement in international competitiveness. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in his speech on the Budget, mentioned that because of our increased international competitiveness we are now able and can afford to build a ship for our defence forces in Australia without subsidy. That is a clear indication of the strides in international competitiveness that have been made by Australia in recent years. We have the improved rural situation, a situation that will produce additional revenue for the Government, additional revenue that can be spread amongst the people. We have increased employment. Once again, I refer to the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication 'Digest of Current Economic Statistics in Australia 1979' dated 10 September. When one analyses the employment statistics one finds that the total number of civilian employees is now 4,770,900. That is 65,000 persons above the level that existed 12 months ago. If we analayse these statistics we have to go back many years before we can find such an increase. What is more pleasing about those statistics is that the private sector absorbed almost 50,000 of that increase. I can go even a little further. The figures for the manufacturing sector, which has been the key to employment, and perhaps the key to the downturn in employment in recent years, have been falling. In the last eight months employment in that sector has improved by 20,000 people. I could go on. I could talk about the profitability of enterprises throughout Australia, profitability that will provide revenue for this country. The indicators are there. 
Perhaps it is fair to mention some of the policies that the Labor Party proposes to implement in Australia. I should like to illustrate to the people just how disastrous some of those policies would be. I refer to the conference which was held just a few months ago in Adelaide, where it was proposed that if Labor came back into power it would increase the Public Service and, through the Public Service, provide more competition for private enterprise. I put this question to the people: Has the government ever shown that it is the type of institution that can run something profitably? Sure, we have some profitable enterprises but the government of Australia has a poor record in running something profitably. All that would result if the Labor Party implemented that policy would be an increase in the size of the Public Service and an increase in taxation for all Australians. What the Labor Party proposes would increase interest rates, which affect all Australians; and would increase unemployment. They are the same policies as those that caused the disastrous increase in unemployment 100,000 people in 12 months- between 1972 and 1975. 
My colleagues on the benches opposite would have us believe that since Labor has been in Opposition it has suddenly been struck with economic brilliance. Its disastrous performance during those three dark years is apparently no indication of its current magical theories. Are Labor members now suggesting that they know all the answers but, for reasons unknown, did not implement them a few years ago? One of their favourite subjects is tax avoidance. They talk of looking after pensioners and they talk of lower taxation; but they did nothing to stop tax avoidance in their years. We have. They did nothing to give pensioners automatic rises. We have. They denied the public lower taxation. Tax rates were never reduced in the three years of Labor Government, but they have been reduced under this Government. Labor has conveniently forgotten inflation; it has conveniently forgotten interest rates. I remind every member of the public to recall the speeches on this Budget which have been delivered by the Opposition. Have any of the Opposition speakers mentioned inflation or interest rates? No, because their track record is something to be ashamed of. Is it any wonder that they make no mention of these two important economic components? They are the two components which form the backbone of prosperity for all Australia. 
Amidst the economic troubles developing in other countries around us, we are achieving economic success- success that cannot be matched by any other nation. It will provide benefits to all Australians, benefits to be enjoyed by all; but we must also be mindful to appreciate and retain the drive of sound economic management, the drive that achieves these goals for the Australian people. In the short time I have remaining I should like briefly to mention the comments of the executive of the Australian Taxpayers Association, which were quite wrong. It drew up quite fictitious tax scales to show what this Government has proposed will cost the Australian people more money in taxation. It applied a 9 per cent inflation factor - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of recent statistics and Press reports which indicate that home building costs have risen, particularly in the months of July and August of this year? Could the Minister identify the base causes of these rises? Could he also indicate whether these increases mean that homes will become more difficult for home buyers to obtain in the future? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. He will be aware of speculation regarding the Government's Budget announcement of an $18,000 ceiling for depreciation purposes on passenger cars and station wagons. Is he also aware that some community uncertainty is causing a temporary loss of car sales? Does he agree that some speculation regarding the effect of this legislation is incorrect? 
I welcome the opportunity to participate in this Estimates debate and I welcomed the opportunity to be part of the new Estimates committee system which has been tried in this Parliament. I think the system has given an opportunity to both Government and Opposition members to question Ministers in detail and, through the Ministers, their department officials. Before moving on to the Estimates, I shall comment briefly on some of the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young). 
I will get to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  soon. If one analyses some of the details and philosophies put forward by the honourable member for Port Adelaide one sees that they clearly identify the extravagances and recklessness of the Labor Party's policies. I thought I was hearing incorrectly but it would appear that the honourable member for Port Adelaide was advocating a system of identification to make it easier for people to get social security payments. My experience in my electorate and throughout various parts of Sydney has been that people with a genuine need to be recipients of social security benefits have no problem in proving their identification. But if the Government resorts to an easy system of identification, as advocated by the honourable member for Port Adelaide, we will throw the whole social security system open to fraud. I do not think the Australian taxpayers want that to happen. The honourable member for Port Adelaide's suggestion is advocating sheer recklessness and opening the social security system to people who are not in need but who are prepared to exploit the system. 
The Government has got back to a sensible management policy. When the Opposition and the honourable member for Port Adelaide were in Government, that Government's measures and management were measured on the amount of money spent. Thankfully, this Government has moved back from that situation. No longer do we measure our efficiency by the amount of money spent. The Labor Government did it and it bred inefficiency. The honourable member for Port Adelaide talked about various systems to overcome unemployment. This Government is sympathetic to the unemployed. It realises its responsibilities. It wants to get unemployment down, but our efforts to get unemployment down will not be measured by the amount of money we spend on various artificial schemes. It is part of the answer to the problem, but the main part of the answer and the main item of economic management that will reduce unemployment is a sound economy. It is not how much we are going to spend. We have provided the basis for a sound economy. 
The Labor Party has provided only a basis for mismanagement and extravagance. This was identified at the Adelaide conference when the Labor Party clearly stated that if it happened to attain government it would increase the public sector and it would form public enterprises to compete with the private sector. In itself that can only increase the size of the Public Service, increase the burden on the taxpayer, reduce investment, reduce confidence in the economy, and, once again, only create a situation where unemployment will increase. Speaking on this point, the honourable member for Port Adelaide said that the Government has not been able to reduce the number of unemployed. I admit that, but we have done something that the Opposition could never do. We have virtually stabilised the unemployment rate in Australia. The Labor Government could never stabilise that situation. That in itself is quite an achievement. 
Let us look at sensible monetary policies and some of the factors that have been discussed in the Estimates Committee. The honourable member for Gellibrand said that we are doing nothing about tax avoidance. I think we can easily prove him to be wrong. Comparing the number of people employed in the Taxation Department this year with the number employed last year, confirms this Government's drive to cut down on tax avoidance. Over the last year the average number employed in the Taxation Department has gone up by a little over 400 people. I understand that a great number of those people are being employed in the examination and investigation section. This Government realises its responsibility to make sure that tax burdens are just and are shared fairly amongst the Australian community. The Opposition, when it had that chance, did nothing like that. Figures for the first three months of this financial year were released at the end of September. They show the benefit of sensible monetary management. At this time last year Australia's deficit was almost $2, 000m. We have been successful in getting that deficit down from that $2,000m to $6 1 5m which is a remarkable achievement in 12 months. A lower deficit means future opportunities for lower taxation of the Australian people and future opportunities to create even greater confidence in the community. Through this creation of greater confidence there will be future opportunities to create further employment once again. That in itself will certainly stop the rise in unemployment and, I hope, reduce it. 
I refer to an item in the estimates for the Department of the Treasury, namely, the distribution of money to the States. It is getting rather monotonous when the States regularly complain of the restraints imposed on them by the Federal Government. Very few people realise that that is not the case. In fact the amount of untied money given the States has increased by 14 per cent which is an increase well above the inflation rate. 
The honourable member for Berowra asks: What did they do with their Budgets? No State in Australia has had to run any sizeable deficit over the past 12 months. Each State has been able to meet its program. No State has had any financial difficulty. But at the same time the Federal Government has had to take some hard measures and exercise this sensible management of the monetary policies. At the same time we have had to run a sizeable deficit. We have been generous to the States. The figures in the Budget clearly show that there has been an increase in untied money to the States in the last 1 2 months of over $700m. We have been able to manage the economy sensibly and at the same time we have been able to get efficiency in our expenditure and maintain generosity in those areas where expenditure is essential. 
I come back to the statements made by the honourable members for Port Adelaide and Gellibrand. The honourable member for Gellibrand made no reference to inflation. He obviously does not realise that inflation is a factor that destroys the economy. Inflation is a factor that takes away from those who can least afford the loss. Rarely does this word 'inflation' appear in any speeches of the Opposition. The Opposition never mentions it because it is ashamed of its past. It is ashamed of the fact that it had inflation running at the rate of 17 per cent but that inflation is now under control. In closing, I think I should refer to the consumer price index figure- 2.3 per cent- that came out only yesterday, which confirms the management of this Government. 
I ask the Deputy Prime Minister: If it becomes necessary to have legislation to give effect to any arrangements worked out to resolve the New South Wales refinery dispute, what would be the attitude of the Federal Government towards this legislation? 
