My question is addressed to. the Minister for External Affairs. Why has he taken no initiative to have the United Nations intervene on behalf of the Government of Laos? Will he attempt to do something about it? While recognising that it is not very easy for the United Nations to do anything under its constitution, how can it work on behalf of countries such as Laos if .nations such as Australia fail to take the initiative on these occasions? 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  seems to me to have compounded the sins with which we have charged the members of the Government. As far as I am concerned, there are a number of fundamental freedoms to which every person is entitled and of which he should not be deprived except by the due process of law. Those include freedom of speech, freedom of association, freedom of religion, freedom of political action and, in these modern times, freedom of travel. This Government, by administrative decree - this, is the charge we lay against it; it is not a question of whether Burchett is or is not guilty of this or that - has removed from an Australian a fundamental right. I believe that this is against all those things for which we have stood and fought over the centuries and that therefore it ought not to be tolerated in this day and age. 
It is not good enough to say that the Crimes Act is this or that, or that Burchett did this or that. In the world today we need standards set at the highest possible level by countries such as Australia. Let other countries do as they will. Let dictatorships act as they may. But an Australian government ought to act with a proper regard for all the traditional rights of Australians. This is why I have continuously fought for the right of Burchett to be issued with a passport. If he has committed any sins, then he must be charged in accordance with the due process of law. But, of course, to those alleged sins my friend, the Attorney-General, has added the sin of retrospectivity. We did not have a law in 1953 under which we could charge Burchett or assail him, but now we can apply it. But we cannot apply it in a court. So we just do it by administrative action. This, I believe, is a serious sin on the part of the Government. 
But there is another matter, that is, the inconsistency of the Government's attitude in these matters. My friend, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  referred to three people who operate for the Rhodesian Government. As far as I can see, we have a duty in relation to Rhodesia to comply with the requirements of the situation vis a vis royalty, the Crown, British action and the United Nations decisions on these matters. Although we have given some sort of lip service to these requirements as regards sanctions and so on, when it comes to the question of Hawkins, Knox and O'Donnell, we have forgotten those requirements and have issued them with passports. I do not mind the Government issuing Hawkins, Knox, and O'Donnell with passports, but if it issues them with passports it should issue Burchett with a passport. If the principle of freedom of issuing passports is sound for these other men. then it is fair for Burchett. 
There is an inconsistency on the part of the Government in these matters, lt chooses friends in this way and it picks its enemies in the other way and it attacks them in such a way that they have no right of appeal. It applies the principle of retrospectivity so far as the Crimes Act is concerned, and it chooses other peculiar friends whom it lionises at various times, such as Krupp, the well known war criminal who came here. I will correct the Attorney-General on the Crimes Act. At the time when the legislation was introduced into this Parliament we opposed a number of provisions in it. We fought them bitterly, as I recall, although I have not the documents before me. One of the matters that particularly affected and offended me was the insertion in the Crimes Act of a provision for guilt by suspicion. I suggest that honourable members read some of the sections of the Crimes Act and the debates that took place at the time of their introduction. The Crimes Act is no credit to the Australian statute book, but the way in which we have persecuted Burchett, the way in which the House has conducted itself in this matter, and the way in which the Government, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  has responded to the appeals of Australians to act in a dinkum Australian way, have been a disgrace in the administration of Australian law. As far as I am concerned - I come in contact with this sort of thing so often in relation to the naturalisation of people, the issuing of passports and other administrative decisions - we must by some means or other remove from executive authority the power by administrative decree to withhold from any Australian or any person a fundamental right 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
I do not believe that we ought to agree to such a motion. In the first place, it is a completely abstract one in which there is nothing particular upon which the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  is basing his request. It means that for the duration of this session we are to suspend the Standing Orders so that certain provisions relating to some of the greater abstractions that flow from constitutional beliefs shall not hold up the House. The facts are that we are now attempting to remove all application of the Standing Orders from any consideration of sales tax Bills as yet unborn. So far as I can see from the Notice Paper there is one sales tax Bill on the Notice Paper but apparently it has nothing to do with the question we are discussing. 
The Government is asking the House to consent to an operation so that it can get its business through in a better way. and this has happened immediately after we have been gagged in this House on a discussion of an important social question. I do not believe that any honourabe member ought to agree to the motion. I believe that the very spirit of the contingency motion, as presented at page 126 of today's notice paper, is against the general principles of the Standing Orders. If you are going to do this kind of thing, if you are going to introduce contingency motions of this sort, if you are going to tear up the Standing Orders on such occasions as this, why have them at all? It simply means that this House becomes more and more a part of the executive instrument. It means that the House has no say over its own affairs. When we vote for this motion I believe that we are surrendering the initiative so far as sales tax Bills are concerned. 
In many ways money Bills are one of the important pieces of legislation that come before the Parliament. The whole system has been built up protecting the right of this Parliament to discuss money matters, financial matters and taxation matters without let or hindrance. This has been the whole principle behind parliamentary development for the last 300 or 400 years. I do not believe that we ought to accede to the Government's request on this occasion. 1 personally do not believe that we ought to accede to it at all because day by day we on this side of the House are consistently being treated with great discourtesy and disregard as was evidenced only a few moments ago when an important subject was being debated and the gag was applied. 
I still wait for the day when those freedom fighters on the other side of the House, who believe that the things which they see in the Liberal Party's platform are dinkum, true and beyond criticism and that they ought to stand up for them, will cross the floor, on an issue such as the one we are discussing or on other issues when the gag is applied, and show some of that intestinal fortitude which they like to drag out of the young men of Australia while they sit home safely week by week. 
I suppose the Parliament has not heard such a magnificent clatter of cliches for a long while. The debate has been reminiscent of the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  at his best when he was looking for Communists under the bed about 10 years ago. What are we debating here this afternoon? The fact is that an incident that took a couple of minutes back on 8th January has been dragged out in this House for 2 weeks and in debate today for 2 or 3 hours. Why? Is it because honourable members opposite care one jot about the welfare of the District Commissioner in Rabaul? Of course not. If they did they would have been as silent as the grave. Who started all this? Was it not the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  - the honourable member for tape recorder carrying; the honourable member who was able to get a tape recording even of my humble investigations in Papua back in July? 
But the honourable member managed to get hold of it. He managed to pass it on to the authorities. The next thing was that the honourable member, spiritually directed as we know he is, was able also to have a tape recording covering the visitations of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The fundamental question today is not whether the District Commissioner was on leave: it is the miserable effort by honourable members opposite to use a public servant in Papua and New Guinea in order to foist something on this Parliament - to drag the issue of Papua and New Guinea down to this single incident instead of allowing us to discuss matters affecting the general welfare of the people of the Territory. 
What does the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  care about public servants? If ever we try to introduce the subject in this place it is he who gags us. Only a week or two ago he made a statement in the House. Only one honourable member from this side was allowed to speak on that statement. But this afternoon when they can use one humble District Commissioner honourable members opposite will allow the debate to proceed for hours. When it is a matter concerning the fundamental question of Papua's political future the Minister is as silent as the grave, and he will silence the House. The credibility that is under challenge this afternoon is the credibility of honourable members opposite. Why did the honourable member for Evans raise this matter in the first place? If the honourable member cared anything about the District Commissioner - I understand that it was the honourable member who first brought the District Commissioner's name into it - the last thing he would do would be to raise the matter in debate. The facts are as the Leader of the Opposition has stated: on this occasion the District Commissioner bad to be put in his place. It is highly unethical for a public servant to interject in the circumstances outlined by the Leader of the Opposition, who is not only the alternative but almost the nominated next Prime Minister of this country. Honourable members opposite are laughing at that statement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! On a number of occasions during the debate the subject has been described as important. I would expect the House to treat it as an important subject. 
Honourable members opposite will be able to laugh from the security of their pensions after the next elections. Their attitude today has been an indication of the depths to which they will go. Fancy the Minister taking the time to prepare and issue his statement in this House when he will not debate any other issue concerning Papau and New Guinea. He will not debate or permit a debate on one other issue concerning the Territory. He has silenced every debate in the last three or four years. Yet he will drag the District Commissioner in here and use him, as he and his colleagues have done for weeks on end. For four days at question time Government supporters have harped on this single incident which happened in Rabaul a few months ago, on 8th January. They have dragged the name of the District Commissioner through the House and made it part and parcel of the debate. All this they have done for the political purposes of the moment. This shows how much they care. They could not care less about the welfare of the people of Papua and New Guinea. If they did care, they would debate the matter of wages and conditions in the Territory. 1 understand that the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  has interests there. How much does he pay the people who work for him? 
This is a man who has personal understanding and knowledge of it all. Why does he prevent us debating it? Why does he not vote against the gag? 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  You have identified the matter before the House with your usual clarity. As I have been pointing out, honourable members opposite will not let these other issues be debated. The Minister's statement has been debated today in order to divert attention from the major issue concerning Papau and New Guinea. What are the reasons for this debate? First of all the District Commissioner, as has been pointed out, has had long and distinguished service in the Territory but, of course, he is in one of the hotbeds of strife ia the Territory. 1 believe it is the custom to support or relieve the District Commissioner when great issues arise such as have occurred in Rabaul in the last few months. I have met the man. I know something of the situation in Rabaul, but not much more than anybody else in this place. The district commissioner service and most services in Papua and New Guinea at this level are removed from the facts of life at the grass roots level. Many things happen there of which the Administration is unaware. There are not enough lines of communication between the services at that level and there is something of a military system about the Administration of Papua and New Guinea and the district commissioner service. At that level it is difficult for those in the service to be in complete contact with the people. Is it not true that in the last six or eight months there has been a tendency to fly in more police than should have been used? There has been a tendency to use more force and threaten more force than was appropriate. In July I visited Rorovana and the Arawa plantation, where I discussed matters affecting the people there. I became upset with the conditions I saw and the threats I heard and I approached the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  about them. I believe that the Minister for External Territories long ago should have taken a more intense interest in Rabaul and done something about the situation there. 
There are certain simple facts which I would like to have elucidated. Is it a fact that the District Commissioner went on 20 weeks leave? Is it a fact that he was back after 5 weeks? Why did this happen? Why are the documents to which the Minister referred not available to us? We on this side believe that this debate has been engineered deliberately as a red herring. The people who are on charge this afternoon with having maltreated and disregarded the welfare of the district commissioner service of Papua and New Guinea are those who initiated the debate. The honourable member for Evans seems to be a leader of that faction. I cannot understand how it is that so consistently he is able to produce tape recordings of things that have happened up there. To what part of the security service does he belong? Is it a fact - this has not been denied - that the District Commissioner went on leave and returned from leave?  His  return from leave has too great a bearing on this matter to be accepted as coincidence. If documents exist, why are they not tabled? It is not good enough to drag this man and his service into this House solely for the political purposes of honourable members opposite. The most serious criticism of the Government is that it cares not one jot or tittle about the people of Papua and New Guinea. It does not care about the public servants there. Anybody whose reputation can be dragged in the dust for political purposes is regarded by honourable members opposite as their prey. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
And that, dear friends, was the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  taking part in a serious debate on defence. Woe to the Manly ferry when he sets out to sea. At last we have found the Australian with the Nelson touch. He has a blind eye for every atom of common sense. In his 20 minutes not one word did he say about the defence of Australia; not one serious criticism did he have to offer of what was said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  It was a typical polysyllabic peroration from the man from Moreton who could always make 600 words do the work of six words. But is that approach not appropriate to a debate of this sort, a debate that was led off by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)?  He is Fraser by name and phraser by nature. The Minister in his statement said that he proposed in the course of his brief remarks - they covered fifteen pages in Hansard - to provide a broad view of the considerations that have contributed to the Government's defence policy. The Minister used phrases such as contributed to our objectives and our arrangements', 'continuing dynamic organisa- tional changes in our analytical approach to difficult and important decisions', and 'they have meaning not only for the immediate present but for the economic, social and ideological situations that face Australia in the future in the context in which we are conducting and elaborating our policies'. 
That is free-flowing English that does not mean anything. That was the Minister for Defence. Of course that has been the pattern of the last 20 years. Australia's defence policy has no relation to strategic appreciation, or common sense. It is a series of myths, legends, prejudices and habits - most of them bad - which are designed as an escape from reality and a substitute for Australia facing the world as an important nation with something to contribute and with self-reliance upon which to build. Everything in the statement, as I saw it, was irrelevant to an analysis of our defence needs and the foreign policies that were laid out before us. The aspect that should really upset the people of Australia is the failure of the Minister for Defence and the Minister for whatever the Minister for the Navy considers himself to be Minister for, to examine and explain the tragic continuation of the present operations in Vietnam. How is it that Australia, with the wealth of military experience that is behind her, with the hundreds of thousands of people who have fought in world wars and with the experience of battles fought and won against terrible odds, is blundering on as it is in Vietnam now? Let me move a vote of no confidence, if I may, in the people who are conducting the operations in Vietnam at this moment at a time when there is no possibility of winning the war or even perhaps of saving the peace. Day by day and week by week they are sacrificing young Australians in the fruits of folly, blundering in the minefields and conducting operations in a way which in wars we have participated in would have led people very rapidly to bowler hats. Let me say that I regard it as tragic folly and that it is irresponsibility on the part of the Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Army to allow those operations to continue. But that, of course, sadly enough, is not the basis of our discussion tonight. 
I see this defence statement as a statement without conclusions. In some brevity, these are the things that the Minister said. 
Referring to China and Russia he said that the future was impossible to predict. Weighty words! As far as the Nixon doctrine is concerned he said: 'It will be full of meaning'. What meaning he did not go on .to say. He said that the Russians - this is a wonderful strategic analysis - have shown proof that they can maintain vessels at sea for unusually long periods. That would have been true enough even in 1788. Phillip maintained the first fleet of thirteen vessels at sea for 6 months without any trouble at all and we have just discovered that the Russians might be able to do that in a modern world. It is time for a serious critique of the Australian defence system. I spent a long time in the service. I served with great discretion. But I do have some feeling about the Australian defence forces and when month after month goes by and year after year passes and there are tragic episodes and incidents which lose young Australian lives; when the Army in Vietnam shoots up its own men and the Commander says: 'No, there will not be any inquiry, it is just one of the fortunes of war;' what have we come to? He would not have lasted 5 minutes in days of old. I have no doubt that he is still there. 
The Navy too has a tragic record. I do not know what has happened to Australian command because I know many of the men involved and they strike me as being people of great dedication and great professional competence. What has happened to the Australian defence Services? Why does the Navy run into the Manly ferry and the ferry sails on and the Navy limps home? Why is it that the Royal Australian Air Force takes 2i hours to get off to look for a ship at sea? The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  a man with a distinguished air record of his own, said that it was reasonable enough. Two and a half hours! We have only spent about $1, 000m on aircraft in the last 20 years. The Japanese were over Pearl Harbour from 8 a.m. to 9.55 a.m. They made three strikes and destroyed the American Pacific Fleet. The Israelies spent 15 minutes over Beirut and destroyed 14 aeroplanes, one of which was taxiing prior to taking off. The Israelies unloaded the people aboard and blew it up. 
Yet the Minister said, after all these years, that 2± hours was reasonable for an aircraft to take to the air and look for a ship at sea. Any bush fire brigade in Australia could do it better. I am saying this seriously. That is not good enough because when we commit young Australians to the defence Services we commit the most precious possessions that any of us have and every Minister of this Government, and every member of Parliament - particularly honourable members opposite - has to answer for it to the people of Australia when they waste young Australian lives, not having been careful of what their trust and duty is. What do we see of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force? This is not an Australian Army, Navy and Air Force. It is the product, I believe, of a long history of false appreciations. 
The Australian Army is foot bound. In the last war the Australian Army started fighting in deserts and ended up in jungles. lt is still trained to fight in jungles. Why would they fight in jungles? In the jungle it is man for man. That is the most extravagant use of manpower. It may well make the most extensive use of personal skills but it is not the place where we put young Australians. We have one of the world's largest industrial capacities. We have the capacity to give every young Australian every advantage of mechanisation and fire power and the Army still marches - the whole nine regular battalions and the whole eighteen battalions of the Citizen Military Forces. 
The Navy, with one of the world's largest automotive industries and a great industrial capacity behind it, has patrol boats which will do 25 knots. In 1908, the 'Mauretania' crossed the Atlantic at 27 knots. The Navy cannot catch the fishing boats. One  Only  has to turn up any of the shipping records to find out that other countries have faster craft. We can rest assured the Israelies will not bother to hijack them. This, of course, shows a lack of imagination. Why not the hydrofoils that the Americans are experimenting with? Why not the hovercraft that the British bring here and let us see? Why not ships that will do 45 knots if that is the way other people can build them? Why not? What is the answer? 
Then we come to the Royal Australian Air Force. We have been looking, I am told, for an aircraft that will have terrain following capacity. Why? The terrain around Australia consists almost exclusively of sea. Even the Air Force ought to know where that is. But, of course, we are chasing false gods. We have 36,000,000 square miles of sea dotted with a few hundred thousand square miles of land within 2,000 miles or so of Australian shores. We must develop our own unique capacity. No other country has quite the same strategic problems as we have. Our problems are not relevant for the Americans. Looking at the Australian position, the Europeans would not know what it was all about. 
My criticism is that in the past 20 years, with all the wealth and woe and weight of work that has been poured into it we have never attempted to produce a defence capacity to satisfy Australia's own needs. We have never laid down a defence objective because we have been able to escape it by using the phrases the Minister used here the other night. Switzerland has a defence objective. It is to keep people from invading it. Sweden has a defence objective. It is to frighten off the Russians. Israel has a defence objective, to keep the Arabs at bay. The Arabs have one; to try to invade Israel. Canada has one; to develop its own capacity to look after its own affairs and to use its own capacity, research and technology to do so. Most countries have one. We have none. 
I have the Minister's phraseology here but it is a little too verbose for a 20 minute speech. He said: 'We seek the maximum of strategic flexibility. We want to be able to operate in our region'. That is another escape from reality. He does not know what decision to make. The facts are that Singapore is 2,000 miles away, that Hong Kong is 3,000 miles away, that Fiji is about 3,000 miles away and that out to the west one can go thousands of miles and not meet land. This produces a particular set of circumstances, and in that context we should be doing as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said, finding a capacity to protect and defend this country, to keep it all under scrutiny so that anybody who comes near it will be absolutely certain that he cannot land on our shores. This is because the world has changed. 
I said earlier that we are full of myths and legends. We are continually saying that we live in one of the most troubled parts of the world. That is utter nonsense. The relationships between Australia and Indonesia are nowhere near as bad as the relationships between Israel and Egypt, between Turkey and Greece and between some of the South American countries. Is anybody going to say that this region is as troubled as the Middle East or Africa? Of course they are not and so we never get around to planning properly and we never got down to adequate parliamentary participation. 
Despite all the hysteria I do not believe that there will be any war in our immediate neighbourhood. If one runs through the analysis of things that have caused wars in the past, how many do we see that exist in our area? Imperialism: None of our neighbours are imperialistic. Nationalism: There is a new kind of nationalism. The world has changed in the last 20 years. Are the religous wars of the past likely to occur again? Of course not. How many of our neighbours have dynastic ambitions? What about population pressure? These do not threaten this part of the world. Even the Government of Indonesia itself cannot get its people to move internally. Neither trade nor traditional hostilities will cause wars. It is time we started to think constructively and with a modern attitude that our neighbours are not warlike and that in the logic of human endeavour we ought to prepare a defence system - an insurance - which will protect us and which will assure anybody around about that we can protect ourselves. 
Then we come to this other mystique, the one which is associated with forward defence. Forward defence? It is forward folly. If it has anything to do with war at all it is irresponsible in the extreme. Have people here no memories? Have honourable members opposite no memories? Some of them ought to have. They were once before the victims of false gods such as that. In the last war we put troops in Ambon, Timor, Rabaul, Java and Singapore, and we lost the lot. The Germans put 300,000 troops into Africa, and when the chips were down and they lost control of their line of supply 600 got home. But that is old hat, of course; that is talk about the last war. 
What is happening in Vietnam? The Americans, with all the resources at their disposal, could not maintain anybody in Khe Sanh; they had to withdraw. When the National Liberation Front got into Hue, once their line of communication was broken they could not sustain their position. No Australian Government with any sense of history or with any sense of responsibility will place Australian troops beyond the reach of its own support. That, I believe, is the major criticism of the suggestion that we should keep troops in Malaysia. It has nothing to do with isolationism; it is plain common sense. Of course, if the purpose is to supply a social service to the people of Singapore, go ahead and do it, but do not claim that it has anything to do with the defence of Australia. It is not isolationism. 
The trouble is that we are wrapped in our own past. We are the products of western Europe - all of us - and so we bring here and inject into this part of the world the follies of the last 3 or 4 centuries of western Europe. It is said that the average Australian - of my generation, but also of that of most honourable members - is inclined to think we should always place our soldiers somewhere else. I suggest that anyone who has this belief should look at the various books available in the Library and see which of the 130 countries in the world do maintain troops beyond their borders. The whole logic of history is - troops, go home. Even Romania in central Europe has been trying to force this policy on the Eastern powers. In NATO, Italy keeps its troops at home, as do also the Greeks, the Turks and the Portuguese. The Canadaians are going home. The French are keeping their troops at home; in fact, they have withdrawn them in order to do so. The Dutch and the Belgians have their troops a few miles across their borders. The Russian troops who are away from home are a long day's drive from their own borders. We have come to the stage when it is only the British, the Australians and the Americans who are maintaining troops a long way from home. Not only will we be the last colonial power because of our position in Papua and New Guinea, judging by the way we are going, but also we are sustaining some of the relics of the past in this regard. 
When will Australians sit down and start to analyse the situation in a commonsense way? When will they learn the facts of life. What do we mean by 'isolation'? What do we mean by 'Fortress Australia' and Retreating home, as one would say was the interpretation by the Minister for the Navy? Would Indonesia want any of our troops there? Would India? Would Japan? Would Cambodia? The Thais might; they would like to make money out of it. Would Burma? Would Ceylon? Of course they would not want them. Can we not bring ourselves back into this part of the world? It is only a matter of analysing the situation carefully. The misfortune is that we have only a few minutes in which to discuss the subject I hope the debate is able to continue next week and that the Parliament is able to participate at great length. 
I believe it is possible to recruit a voluntary army in Australia. I am certain that we can do so. I do not know even why we must maintain the regular Army at its present level. Why must we have nine battalions? I understand that is why we need to have conscription. The Returned Services League says that we must have nine battalions. The Democratic Labor Party says that we must have nine battalions. Why nine? Why not ninety? Why not nineteen? Back in 1938 we had eighty or ninety combatant battalions and in 1945 we had another number. Is there some magic about nine? Of course not. 
As a matter of fact I would have whatever I could recruit. I come now to the point that I want to make. I believe that no matter how good they are, nine battalions are completely irrelevant to any defence requirement. 
I would not recruit you; I would leave you to mess up the law. We have 9 battalions on the ground, but what do 9 battalions on the ground mean? I suppose we could hold Canberra if we placed the troops between Ainslie and Belconnen. If an enemy came straight down the road from Goulburn we would be able to turn it back. That is an indication of the irrelevance of the whole defence debate. I believe, in the light of the strategic appreciation, that the citizen forces have become the Cinderella of the Australian armed Services. Even my honourable friends opposite admit that it is unlikely that in the next 10 or 15 years we will be assaulted as we were 27 years ago. 
Of course, honourable members opposite will say: 'Poor old Bryant; he is living in the past. He does not know that amateurs cannot do this anymore.' Can amateurs fly supersonic aircraft? Next time honourable members opposite go overseas - they had better make the most of this Parliament - I suggest that they call at the Pentagon or, more pleasantly, because this is more in line with their accustomed mode of life, call at Honolulu in Hawaii. I suggest that they go and see the Air National Guard which flies supersonic aircraft with part time fliers, as do also the Swiss. I suggest that they take a good look. My own view is that in these circumstances a regular force is desirable. Keep them at a level at which they can be kept without too much trouble to the nation, but do something in the citizen area. Is there any reason why in the Rockhamptons, the Warrnambools and other coastal cities of Australia we could not base upon part time services all the defence equipment which we buy and keep. Of course we could do so. I wish the Parliament would set to and do some homework on it or establish a select committee to examine how we can develop the civilian defence capacity of Australia with its tremendous resources in every town, in workshops, in naval yards and so on, into a viable defence capacity which does not waste people's time but which still can be an effective mobilisation point for the nation if ever we come to a point of crisis. That is the only defence that has any sense in the present day. 
There were two rather embarrassing - I might say alarming - statements made by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  during the few minutes for which he spoke. The first statement was to the effect that the Government did not want to appoint somebody who promotes views antagonistic to the people of Papua and New Guinea. What exactly does he mean by that? 
Motion (by  Mr Wenrworth)  put: 
That  the business  of  the day be called  on. 
I wish to speak on the question that has been raised by my colleague, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  and the point raised again by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  I would like to assert again that the Opposition believes first of all that this is a parliamentary committee. It is appointed by the Parliament and is answerable to the Parliament. It claims all the power and authority that flows from such a committee. It has no other charter because its members are members of this Parliament. Therefore it is a creature of the Parliament. It ought to be answerable both directly and absolutely to the Parliament itself. The resolution we are putting forward does not in any way reduce the competence of the Minister to control those functions which he considers to be his - not that I agree with his interpretation of where Parliament and the Executive stand in this matter. It means that if there is an issue in which this Parliament is concerned, for example if there is some item about the Middle East with which the Parliament itself is concerned, it ought to be able, as a sovereign body in its own right, to refer it to the Committee and receive a report on it. In what way does this interfere with the functions of the Minister? 1 do not see that it has any interfering qualities that would affect the Minister's functions. He has his particular functions. He is administering a department of State on behalf of this Parliament. That is why he is a Minister, not for any other reason. He is administering a department of State because he has been appointed to the position of a Minister of State by this Parliament. That is how he holds his authority. But we are not proposing to interfere in any way with his rights to ask the Committee to act on his behalf and report to him privately and confidentially. 
I do not know that I agree with that procedure, but I do not see any point in interfering with it as long as the Parliament itself also has this authority. I believe that that would be an important function. For instance, let us take our relations with the islands in the western Pacific - the British Solomons, Fiji and so on. This is a matter in which we can all be concerned and which by no stretch of the imagination at this moment could be considered as a matter of great secrecy or even security. It is a matter upon which all of us in this House ought to be informed. Why should we not refer it to the Committee and have the Committee report back directly to us? 
I think that would be a substantial reason why we ought to support the amendment. 
The other point that the Minister raised was that the conduct of foreign policy is the function of the Executive. What exactly does he mean by the 'Executive'? The Executive is no different from the body of the Parliament itself. Each Minister and the Ministry collectively have some particular functions, but foreign policy is the property of the whole nation. It is tremendously important that the nation be involved in it; that it must not be a hit and miss business such has occurred in the last few years. Our entry into the Vietnam conflict is one example of this. Therefore it is important that we all become involved in foreign affairs. 
The Minister mentioned the conduct of the Department. I suppose he meant the administration of the day to day affairs of the Department. That is one thing, but the actual flow of ideas and attitudes in the community is the responsibility of the Parliament, which is acting on behalf of the people of Australia. I believe it is no more the proprietary right of the Ministry than it is of the Parliament. I believe that it is terribly important that we ensure there is a flow of ideas, attitudes and values in foreign affairs which will finally be expressed in the actions that the Minister takes on our behalf in directing his Department. Therefore I can think of no valid reason whatsoever why any member of this Parliament, with any confidence in its competence, its value or its sovereignty ought not vote for this amendment. 
I second the amendment. The question that we place before the House is whether we have enough faith in the 14 or 15 members of this Committee to allow them to make a decision at to whether the evidence that they take shall be heard in camera or not. All we are asking the Parliament to do is to have the same faith in the membership of this Committee as it has in those who accidentally become Ministers in any government from time to time, lt is one of the facts of life of this Parliament and this institution that any member at some time or other can hold the highest office in the land. A number of honourable members opposite have in recent times held ministerial office and have retired from, been retired from or been removed from that office but apparently when they were Ministers they had all the capacity to hold the highest office and have the greatest trust reposed in them. For instance, the probable  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbain),  was for a long time a member of Cabinet. Now he is not to be entrusted with the simple task of deciding whether the evidence to be placed before the Committee shall be heard in camera. 
The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  will not trust the honourable member for Farrer to make that kind of decision. The honourable member and his colleagues on the other side will vote to retain that situation, unless they have changed their views, attitudes and prejudices since the last vote was taken. All we are asking honourable members opposite to do is to have at least a little faith in the membership of the Committee, whatever it may be from time to time. Little regard as I have for the political policies of those who sit opposite, there can be no reason for lack of faith in their confidence or integrity, because this is the way committees operate. Every committee of the Parliament has imposed upon it the duty of being secret and confidential at certain times. Standing order 340 states: 
The evidence taken by any select committee of the House and documents presented to and proceedings and reports of such committee, which have not been reported to the House, shall not, unless authorised by the House, be disclosed or published by any Member of such committee, or by any other person. 
Many committees are operating now. There is the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House and there are a number of Senate select committees. Does anybody recall any of those committees breaching the spirit of the standing order which I have just referred to? I cannot think of any such incident. So if we can have faith in a Minister of the kind we had in the honourable member for Farrer when he was a Minister, I see no reason why we cannot have the same faith in this Committee and its membership. 
Similarly, I cannot see any merit in the argument advanced by the Minister for External Affairs that if the Committee's meetings are open witnesses will be inhibited from speaking their mind. Is there any evidence of this from other committees of inquiry? A parliamentary committee has all the authority of any other committee of inquiry. In some ways it is more authoritative and can be more dictatorial in its powers than a royal commission. Is there any evidence that these committees do not extract from witnesses all the evidence that they are able to lay before them? Is there any evidence that inquiries conducted in the United States do not do this or that witnesses are inhibited by the fact that they may be heard in public? Is there any evidence that committees are incapable of making a decision that certain evidence shall' be heard in camera? Certainly there is not. I believe that open inquiry is one of the fundamental requirements in the search for truth and in democratic behaviour. This Parliament should set that kind of standard in its own deliberations - in its own committee work. I see no sound reason why honourable members opposite should vote against this amendment unless it be that they are completely inhibited not by the demands of committee work but by the discipline of their Party and their failure to assert their rights in it. 
Any honourable member who votes against the amendment is casting a vote of no confidence in himself. Why should honourable members not members of the Committee be precluded from attending the Committee's hearings, even if we exclude the public? The Standing Orders make some provision for this but again where matters are secret those honourable members not members of the Committee have to leave. I do not believe we should discriminate against the membership of this Parliament. We cannot say that some members are faithful and true and others are not to be trusted. We should depart from that principle. Very few parliaments of the world operate in the kind of parliamentary system in which we would like to think ours operates. Very few of the 60 or 70 parliaments associated with the InterParliamentary Union are democratic, open, deliberative and consultative assemblies in the way they should be. There are many deficiencies in our own procedures but at least most of us are prepared to stand up and be counted in public no matter on which side of the Parliament we sit. Honourable members are a long way from being democratic in their operations. They must place this kind of faith in themselves or parliamentary democracy cannot work. 1 am particularly interested in a vote on occasions such as this, of some honourable members opposite who have achieved public fame and rapport because of their stand on these great issues. My colleague from Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  for instance, has often been noted and quoted as having a very high regard for parliamentary democracy, for the rights of private members and for the necessity for us to remove from the Executive some of its transcendental authority. I do not notice the honourable member for Farrar tonight. If he is absent 1 apologise for raising his name when he is not about. He was a great freedom fighter not so long ago. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is a man of redoubtable capacity and courage. He was going to tackle the great authority of the Liberal Party not so long ago. When is he going to come and vote for us? The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  I think it is, is a freedom fighter from way back too. He is tackling the whole system of bugging by microphones and so oh. When is he going to take up this challenge? Alas, unless he has changed his views from a few moments ago, never. One of the tragic elements of this Parliament and the way it is operated is the tight control which honourable members have over each other in these matters. 
Has this matter been discussed in the Party room so that honourable members opposite have been able to make a deliberate contribution to the Party discussions? I doubt it. Each one of them has become just a symbol of Australian parliamentary party discipline making very little personal contributions in any way. Tonight we have offered honourable members opposite two opportunities. They have discarded one. We offer them another now. If they vote against this resolution I believe it is a vote of no confidence in themselves. 
Being a member of the Council of the National Library of Australia is one of the most satisfying jobs that I have had in the15 years that I have been in this Parliament. I would suggest to the Government and to all honourable members that members could well be used in a larger measure than is the case in enterprises of this kind. At the moment we have representation on the Australian National University and the Institute of Aboriginal Studies, but that is about all. The National Library is becoming one of the world's great library institutions. The membership of the Council includes a number of distinguished Australians and I regard it as an honour to be appointed by the House to this position. I commend the institution to honourable members. If they wish to make any inquiries at any time they may do so privately or even use the resources of Standing Orders at question time to do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
WhenI asked his predecessor whether the position of Major-General the Honourable S.L. M. Eskell, M.L.C., had been reconsidered in the tight of (a) the evidence given to  Mr Justice  Street about his conduct and (b) the resolution passed by the New South Wales Legislative Council for his demotion, did he tell me that the General had not been charged with or convicted of any military or civil offence which would form the basis of disciplinary action (Hansard,15th May 1969, page 1936). 
Has the General's position been considered yet again since the New South Wales Registrar of Companies issued four summonses against him last December after an investigation into Australian Factors Limited of which he was a director. 
From answers to questions yesterday, the Minister for External Affairs gave the impression that he was opposed to aggression. As the French nuclear tests in the South Pacific are an act of aggression against all people in this area, will the Government take steps to prevent the French Government from obtaining any assistance whatsoever from Australian sources by excluding French ships from Australian ports and French airlines from Australian air space during the preparation for and the execution of that operation? Will the Minister attempt to arrange similar action by other nations in the Pacific basin? 
The point that I want to make first of all is: How slow moving can this apparatus be? The first report was presented here in May 1964 - 6 years ago. The policy statement was announced in November 1968  -  almost 18 months ago. At long last after a 6 years gestation period we have reached the point where we are passing the matter to that other slow moving organisation, the Standing Orders Committee, of which I have been a member for some time and which, as I recall, has met once during that period. 
That is right, but I know that this is likely to come back again if one is not careful. The real point to which the Parliament ought to apply itself is the distribution of the documents. I am not fussy about whether they are glossy or not. I would like them to contain the fullest of information and I would like them to be much more readily available to the people of Australia. It might be extravagant, but I would like to see a large number of publications from the Parliament and departments go direct to secondary schools for their libraries and this may be a way of making a library grant without undue expense. The same would apply to tertiary institutions but they are in a different position. The fact is that we do produce a tremendous amount of information which is of great value to the community, particularly education wise. I hope that the Standing Orders Committee will smarten itself up a bit and attend to this matter and also that we do not make a piecemeal approach to the Standing Orders. Instead, we should do the whole system over because it is a direct descendant of the feudal system and it is time that it was changed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In my view the report ought not to be adopted. I do not believe that we have complied with the spirit and the principles upon which parliamentary practice ought to proceed. 
I move: 
That the  ruling  be dissented  from. 
In speaking to the motion for dissent from your ruling- 
In moving this dissent- 
 Mr Speaker,  I shall obey you. I greatly regret that I felt it necessary to defy you last night as the only way to prevent the Government gagging the Bill through all stages then in breach of arrangement with the Opposition. I apologise personally and directly to you,  Sir, for  the fact that my conduct should have placed you in an invidious position. 
In the long history of human humbug the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  would be hard to beat. We have heard him this evening talking about something about which he knows nothing. He is already Australia's most mobile political figure. I understand that he has been in the Australian Democratic Labor Party, the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party, but I do not think the Communist Party has been able to find room for him in the telephone box in which they meet in his electorate. What are his particular problems in this issue? Is he afraid that on Moratorium Day the surging crowds in Dingo or in Burketown or in Blackwater or down around Julia Creek will overflow and flood him out of political existence? He does not know what he is talking about. He has no understanding of the issues that face the metropolitan areas of Australia. He does not understand what the moral issues are that face the people of Australia who have a conscience. He has no idea at all of what the Communist Party is about. The Communist Party is one of Australia's most microscopic political groups. It survives on the efforts of a handfall of very capable people, and that is all. 
The Communist Party has now reached the stage where its meetings are minute proportions of politically sensitive people. They are of little significance at all in this country and to spend so much time in this House writing them larger than life size does no justice to this Parliament and does the country no sense. We are here tonight discussing a matter which I believe should affect the conscience of every person in Australia. It is not so long now before we will be marching down the streets on Anzac Day to remember the 60,000 people who died in the two World Wars. What steps have been taken by any of these people opposite, by all these people who oppose our point of view, to remember the 350 dead in Vietnam? Not for them any memorials; not for them any special services; not for them any marches; not for them any wreaths. For none of these do honourable members opposite shed a tear. 
A few months ago I took part in a demonstration in the city of Melbourne. I did so after a lot of deep thought. It was the marching down the street with the names of these young men and the burning of a registration card in the city of Melbourne. I did not want to do it. I did not feel particularly keen on that kind of demonstration. But a few days before the event I was turning the pages of a Melbourne newspaper and on page 3 or 4 I saw that 2 more young men had been killed in Vietnam. 1 read out the item to my wife and she said: 'And nobody cares. The mothers of those young men will weep and the fathers will be sorrowful; people will be regretful and we will get on with business as usual.' I decided then whatever I could do I would do to see that the conscience of the people of Australia, whether in public or private, were roused to see what is being done in their name. That is what we are doing here tonight and that is what we will do on 8th May. Have no doubt that not only do I support the Vietnam Moratorium but I will be there and I will encourage everybody who supports me in my political views to be there with me likewise. That is why we are here tonight discussing this matter and nothing which has been said by members on the other side of the House has challenged the morality of that point of view. 
I will associate with whomsoever I shall please. I have said that ever since I came here. If the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  and I attend a conference of public servants I am quite happy to stand beside him on subjects about which we agree. If the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  attends our Aboriginal conferences I will stand on the platform and talk beside him and praise those things that he has done - which he ought have done. If the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party comes to an education or migrant meeting - although I deplore most of his politics - I will stand beside him. That goes for anybody in this country no matter what his politics, Communist or non-Communist, Democratic Labor Party or Liberal-Country Party. I believe that is a fundamental principle of Australian political life and society. One associates with whom one pleases. We associate as free men. We assemble wherever we like to assemble. We wish no man ill-will but we stand up and be counted when great issues are at stake. I believe that the challenge of a modern democratic society is this: The government has to be responsive and responsible to the governed. Australians feel increasingly frustrated about this. 
We are here tonight debating one of the great national issues in which most people believe that they can have no influence upon the course of Government action whatsoever. The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  said that the Government has a mandate from the people of Australia. What kind of mandate is it? The figures of the last Federal election show that the Liberal Party which supplies most of the members of the Cabinet polled 2,125,000 votes. The Australian Labor Party, which is vigorously opposed to the war in Vietnam and our participation in it, polled 2,870,000 votes. Even when the 500,000 votes for the Country Party are added to those of the Liberal Party the figure is a long way short of the total number of votes for the Labor Party. If the votes for the DLP are thrown in the anti-Labor forces do edge slightly in front. How many honourable members opposite carried their own electorates with an absolute majority in the last election? Is it not true that only about 45 of the 65 members opposite could obtain an absolute majority for their point of view and their personal campaign in their own electorates? The Government has no mandate from the people of Australia. This is the most savage challenge which faces democracy today. Somehow we have to make governments responsive to the people that they govern, and that is why we have to go out into the streets. We have to do it because to me there seems to be no other way. There is no other way of rousing the conscience of the people, to make the Government, its membership, its Ministers and its servants responsible and understanding of what it is all about. What else are we to do? In the long history of human endeavour we have been unable to resolve this democratic problem of making a society responsible to the will of its citizens. 
The Attorney-General made a great play of the term 'a democratic society'. It is of course true that in the world at large there are about 130 nations none of which are democracies in the true sense - well, except perhaps one or two. Happily we belong to the dozen or 15 nations that are pretty close to being democracies. But how democratic is Australia? What about the Crimes Act, the National Service Act, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Electoral Act? I have with me a copy of the Crimes Act which was passed by this House. How democratic is section 78 (2.) of that Act which reads: 
it is not necessary to show that the accused person was guilty of a particular act tending to show ... he may be convicted, if, from the circumstances of the case from his conduct or from his known character as proved, it appears that his purpose was a purpose intended to be prejudicial . . . 
Such an accused person can be found guilty. That is a provision in the Crimes Act. Would you find that in a democratic society? Of course you would not. Have you thought about the provisions of the National Service Act? The provisions that require people to register for national service; the provisions that require airlines to refuse the people the right to leave this country. Are those provisions symbols and actions of a democratic government? Of course they are not. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  spoke about marches in the street to get O'Shea out of prison. Why were the marches necessary? The answer is because the Conciliation and Arbitration Act includes some of the most undemocratic clauses on the statute books of any democratic country in the world. I understand that there are only 3 countries in the world which have legislation containing the kind of penal provisions that we have in our legislation. Ours is not a democratic society. Nor is Australia an electoral democracy, because in the late hours of a night not so very long ago we passed through this Parliament amendments to the Electoral Act to ensure that the seat of Malley should have 45.000 voters and the seat of Wills should have 58,000 and also that around Australia there would be some people whose vote would count for 4 and others for 3. So we have negated democracy. It is not true that Australia is democratic in the sense in which we think of the word. Therefore the challenge goes out to every citizen to do something about it. Having failed at the ballot box, despite the advantage of numbers; having failed to persuade, despite the logic, there is only one thing we can do, and that is to get out amongst the public and try to convince and gather everybody into the fold and get them to oppose the war in Vietnam and Australia's behaviour in it. 
The honourable member for La Trobe said: 'Why are you so silent about North Vietnam and its aggression?' Many of us on this side have spoken about this matter. We are not happy about the North Vietnamese Government. We are not happy about most governments. We would write no charters or guarantees for them. The fact is that the events in South Vietnam in which Australia participates are our responsibility. Our men are sent there by the actions of this Parliament and a Government which gets its charter from its membership of this Parliament. That is why we take up this issue, and this one almost solely, but not this one alone. What are honourable members opposite doing about some of the moral issues that are involved here? What about the bombing of North Vietnam and the bombing of the various parts of South Vietnam. It is true that I have no time for the National Liberation Front and its bomb-throwing, but we can have no responsibility for them. But we can perhaps exert remote influence on it, but it is indeed a remote influence. But upon the actions of our allies in Vietnam we ought to be able to assert some influence. 
What about the fate of prisoners? Does anyone care for the prisoners that Australian servicemen capture and pass over to the Saigon Government and its tender mercies? Do we ever care? Do we ever find out? Do we ever search to see? What about the villages that have been destroyed in the search and destroy operations? They are our responsibility. They are on our conscience. We cannot deny or escape this, and that is why we have to assert ourselves against the war in Vietnam. Why is it that none of the honourable members opposite will debate the Vietnam war any more? Why is it that we can plead in vain to get one of them to come on a platform somewhere? Why is it that students at the university will say: 'We cannot get any Liberals to come'? Why is it that churches will say: 'But we cannot get any Liberals to come and debate with you'? Why is it that there are no Liberals who will debate this issue? Is there any honourable member of the Country Party or Democratic Labor Party who will come to Melbourne on 8 th or 9th May and debate with us somewhere publicly the very issues that we are discussing here tonight? Of course there is not. They are hiding safely behind the numbers that they have gained through the amendments of the Electoral Act and all the other devices which prevent the will of the people being heard. They hide away and pour scorn upon the actions of other devout people who want the nation's conscience scarified a little, because it is time to scarify it on this issue. 
We have a right and we have a duty to dissent. The problem is that so many people believe that it is somebody else's job. We cannot leave it to others. We are the inheritors of a long history of dissent. Over 3 or 4 centuries there has been successful dissent. There has been dissent against kings, dissent against Parliaments, dissent against employers and dissent against all sorts of wrongs. We have had the Bill of Rights and the Declaration of Independence. What did the Nuremberg decisions mean? They meant that every one of us has a conscience and we cannot avoid it. 
So the Vietnam Moratorium is not only about the Vietnam war but it is about those things that make a democratic society tick - the right of freedom of association and the right of freedom of assembly. I was sickened to hear the Attorney-General, who came to this House with a pretty formidable reputation as a man of intellect and as a man of great professional capacity. I find through his statement a continuing and specious series of phrases - phrases which can be brought from anywhere and which mean nothing. They are plausible and persuasive but meaningless. He referred to: conduct calculated to damage the great interest we all have in maintaining a stable democratic society ruled by law'. That comment could easily have been followed by these words: 'It is completely out of the question, but under the cover of criticism support should be given to activities which one can only characterise as treason to the interests of people's own life'. The phrasing is almost identical and the wording follows on. One could hardly determine, without a very close examination, that the authors were not the same person. One of the authors is the Attorney-General of Australia, who was sitting at the table; the other was the late unregretted Adolf Hitler giving one of his numerous speeches. 
I believe this is part of the menace of the system - that it is words, words, words; no conscience, no clarity, no facts. This country has been beset too long with McCarthyism. It has had a long and dreadful history, and it is in this country that its last lingering traces are to be found. Some of us can remember, even if we were not here, the time when the former Prime Minister of Australia, the Right Honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, said when introducing the Communist Party Dissolution Bill that he had a great list of trade union leaders who were all Communists. Two or 3 days later he had to withdraw his assertion, just as the notorious McCarthy had to withdraw his list. Of course, that was  Sir Robert  Menzies. He was a particular sort of person, and it was so long ago. 
Then, of course, there was Lord Casey who is equally distinguished. At an appropriate time he found a nest of traitors in the Commonwealth Public Service. It would be a worth while exercise for honourable members who have joined this Parliament in recent years to turn back to the Hansard of the time. They will see how my friend, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser),  continuously challenged him. Not only could he not find the nest but he could not find even one traitor. As far as I can tell, as far as the records show and as far as this Government has been able to challenge anybody in the courts, Australia has never had a traitor. Yet here tonight we have heard honourable member after honourable member, including the Attorney-General himself, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  the honourable member for Kennedy, all with allegations of treachery and treason hidden behind the smears that they place upon decent and honest Australians. They presume that there are Communists everywhere. The honour able member for Kennedy referred to the grand design and the great deceit. These allegations, of course, must be stopped. 
Apart from that, there are other issues that ought to be faced by the people of Australia. Many honourable members opposite are of military age. Where are they when the guns are barking? Why are they not there? Why is my friend, the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  not there? Is he not of the age that would enable him to be there if he were dinkum? Is that not also the case with the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)?  What about my young friend, the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)?  In my day and age people who believed in wars went to them themselves. Other honourable members who are of military age should also be there. I have not had time to check on the age groups, but I ask any honourable member in that age group to come out on a platform in his electorate or in my electorate and say where he stands when these issues are at stake. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has poured scorn on us. I understand that the Army is short of dentists. That is his profession. Why does he not go? 
The issue is the access to the streets of Australia. My friend the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  called for people to take over the streets. What does he mean by that? Every shopping day the streets are taken over by commercial activity. We want them to be taken over by the nation's conscience. If it is good enough for the men of commerce to use the streets for their purposes, for the newspapers to sell their wares, for the farmers to march down, and for the people of Australia to stand still on them or march down them on the two historic days of each year, Armistice Day and Anzac Day, it is good enough at some time for private people, calling on the conscience of the nation, to demand the same right. Why is it that these matters must be left to governments? Why is it that we can have a conscience only when it is officially sponsored? That is not the way our society works. That is not the way democracy works. On 8th May, which should have a particular significance because it is the 25th anniversary of the end of the war in Europe, we should get out into the streets and demand the people's conscience? What we ask is: Do the streets belong to us all? 
There are very few public places in this country where we can assemble. In my electorate I think we have established the right amongst the citizenry to get out in the streets if we wish. We have established a pretty close rapport with the police force. We have no grudge against the members of the police force. They have their duty to do. I presume, like the rest of the community, their political views are divided. But there is only one thing that will change the course of this nation's thinking, and that is a public demonstration of our beliefs. For too long politics has been the business of the letter box at the dead of night with no people attending the public meetings, with a disembodied voice coming over the radio or a depersonalised picture on the television set. What we seek is a personal confrontation on a political issue and a matter of conscience. So we have moved an amendment which I hope honourable members opposite will support. We affirm the right to peaceful demonstrations, support the efforts of the United States Government to achieve an end to the war and declare that this disengagement meets the urgent needs of humanity. 
It is not often that we have a chance to debate or to discuss the way in which this Parliament is to meet. Unfortunately, this afternoon we ought not to take any longer than we need to discuss the matter as people are waiting to take part in other debates; for instance, in a debate on foreign affairs. 1 will therefore be brief. I congratulate the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  because, in the last 3 minutes of his speech he showed one of those rare flashes of political lucidity which are possible from a Liberal, and agreed with my own sentiments in this matter. 
The only thing 1 can say about the speech of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  is that probably it was the most ungracious speech I have heard in this Parliament for some time. I have heard him before. I thought that on this occasion the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  put the case that Parliament should not meet on 8th May as clearly and definitely as possible, and with the least possible provocation. Parliament is not just a part of this city or of outlives. It is part of the life of the whole community. Each one of us is committed to all types of obligation many weeks in advance. In my own life as a parliamentarian, and I suppose as a public figure, I find I am ordinarily committed 6 or 8 weeks ahead. 1 can say to a group of people: 'I can be free on a Friday afternoon.' 
Many people around Australia organise functions on that basis. They are conscious of the symbolism of the Parliament and its membership. Therefore they organise functions so that a member of Parliament can attend, on a Friday afternoon or a Monday morning. This is an important feature of Australian public life. By a sudden arbitrary and capricious decision that on that particular Friday - 8th May - 185 members of the Parliament, or 125 members of this House will not be able to fit in with that established practice is quite thoughtless. I do not believe that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  on this occasion acted provocatively in arriving at the conclusion he has reached, but I am afraid that on occasions the affairs of this place are handled arbitrarily and capriciously. 
We meet until all hours of the night. We roll on and on until an unheralded hour in the morning while dozens of car drivers are waiting, and the staff of the House are detained, including the officers of this chamber. The news people are waiting. A whole phalanx of the community is tied up by our arbitrary and capricious behaviour in this place and it is time that it was brought into order. As to 8 th May, a large number of people in Melbourne decided to organise for that particular Friday afternoon. They had in mind that they could prophesy that on Fridays members of Parliament would be free to participate. I ask honourable members opposite to do what we suggest as an act of grace, regardless of what they feel about the whole operation to be conducted in Melbourne. I appeal for a simple act of grace by other members of the institution. Equally they are just plain members of this institution. I ask them to admit that for this occasion at least it is not a question of stopping the Parliament of the nation. It is a question of not interfering with established procedures for that week and that week alone. I support the remarks of my friend from Lalor. 1 am able to say without breaking the confidence of a Party meeting - our Party Secretary has just pointed this out to me - that the discussion in our room on this matter was not initiated by the honourable member for Lalor and he did not participate in that discussion. We arrived at a unanimous decision spontaneously that we ought not to meet on 8th May in this Parliament. I address honourable members opposite as another part of the Parliament. You are only a simple part of the Parliament and J ask that you do not agree to meet on 8th May. 
I want to spend a few minutes discussing the days and times of meeting of the Parliament. I think this is my twenty-ninth halfyear in this Parliament. In each of those half-years we have indulged in this operation, it is a sort of bi-annual operation that we arrive at the conclusion half-way through a session that the plans we made about days of meeting should not apply. I read some years ago of experiments carried out in the training of animals. They were run along a tube at points of which electric impulses were activated to provide a shock. At the end of the fifteenth run the dog in the experiment learned not to turn in a way that would give him a shock. The cat learned by the end of the thirtieth run. but it took the worm 800 times before he learned how not to receive a shock. We are now on about our one hundred and fortieth half-yearly run since Federation. 
How long is it to take us to learn that we cannot continue to run Parliament in this way? Do not tell me we have 660 exercises still to go. 
Every session it is the same. Is it not reasonable to take hold of our operations and to ask: 'How long will this take?' Last night 5 or 6 members spoke in the adjournment debate. If I had any part in creating an opportunity for them to speak 1 am grateful, although I did become excessively tired. I think it is reasonable in a House of 125 members for 6 of them to speak in the adjournment debate. That number represents only about 5%. Each member on that basis receives an opportunity to participate in the adjournment debate only once in every 6 or 7 weeks. 
For years we have been meeting on 50 or 60 days a year. It does not work. Twenty years ago Parliament met on 70 or 80 days a year. This afternoon I put to honourable members that we decide that it takes say, 100 or 120 days of meeting a year to handle the nation's affairs in this Parliament. Therefore we should put it on a rational and organised basis. For simplicity of arithmetic let us decide to meet on 120 days a year, or in 24 weeks each of 5 days. That would still be shorter than half a year. We could meet in 3 weeks each of 5 days in each month. 
We could meet in the first 3 weeks of February, March, April and May, and again in August, September, October and November. In that way 4 months would be left free. We would know exactly where we were going and I offer the suggestion to honourable members for consideration. Like other honourable members, I am involved in family life. Fridays and Mondays become tied up. There is no doubt in my mind that in the next 12 months we will have to change fundamentally our days of meeting. I put forward the proposition that we take the arithmetic I have suggested, analyse it and decide that we will meet in a formal way which will give us adequate time for debate. I do not believe that it is reasonable to continue debates after 10.30 p.m. Almost every other organisation I know closes down at 10 p.m. I think we are acting like idiots to allow ourselves to be dragged continuously through the mill in this exhausting and nonsensical fashion. 
I will not bother to answer the very vicious attack made by the the honourable member jr Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  upon my friend the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  for suggesting that he would go up to Moree and stir things up. I find that difficult to believe. What I suppose the honourable member for Gwydir wants to be careful about is that the honourable member for Riverina does not undertake to stand for Gwydir at the next election because this seems to bring very unfortunate results for Country Party candidates. However, this evening I want to draw to the attention of honourable members what I call an act of vandalism going on on Capital Hill. About 18 months ago this Parliament considered at great length the site of the new and permanent parliament house. In fact, a majority of this Parliament decided - I think it was by 83 votes to  64  - that the site should be Capital Hill. In the meantime the National Capital Development Commission had designed what it called a 'ring road'. To most of us, I would think, it was presumed that this would be a road decently and discreetly set inside Capital Hill in such a way that it would not destroy the natural environment of Canberra. I believe that Capital Hill is part of the precious visual environment of Canberra and at the present moment the operation that is going on there is road making run mad. Nobody could possibly justify the kind of quarrying and destruction that is taking place on that site. There must be countless other ways in which roads could have been put round that Capital Hill site. I can see no reason why State. Circle could not have been widened on either the outside or the inside. Just this evening - I do it with brevity just so it is on the record - I express my dismay at what I consider an act of vandalism by the planners and by the engineers. I hope that we in the Parliament will do something to protect that part of our environment. I hope that those members who are new to the Parliament will take some steps to make themselves familiar with the total area and that those who have been here for a long time but are not really aware of the geography of Canberra will make some study of it. I cannot express too strongly what I believe to be the view of many people who come to Canberra that the NCDC has destroyed part of the visual environment of Canberra which was part of the total planning and attraction of this city. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Earlier in question time the right honourable gentleman regretted that he was unable to get his Party's view and the Government's view on the Vietnam Moratorium across to the secondary school children of Australia. If his regrets are sincere, why is it that no member of the parliamentary Liberal Party will accept an invitation to discuss the matter in public - in schools or anywhere else? If discussions can be arranged will the Prime Minister ensure that a member of the parliamentary Liberal Party will attend to put 'the point of view of the Prime Minister and his Government? Could he arrange, while doing that, for the honourable member for Diamond Valley to attend and explain why he sends other people to wars to which he will not go himself? 
First of all, I find myself in agreement with the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  for a change. I believe that rural rates in particular are a very heavy burden from which there ought to be some alleviation. They are only matched, as far as the suburban dweller is concerned, by the iniquitous mediaeval system of private street construction in Melbourne, so we are brothers under the skin in that regard. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  who is trying to interject would not know very much about it, but I can tell him at some other time. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  denounced the Australian Labor Party for its foreign policy and its moratorium policy. When the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  spoke it was not quite clear what he was denouncing. He seemed to be denouncing nearly everybody. 
This afternoon I want to say a few words about a statement that was recently issued by a very notable Australia-wide organisation, the Returned Services League. A Press statement issued on 27th April 1970 by the National  President  of the Returned Services League,  Sir Arthur  Lee, K.B.E., M.C., has been brought to my attention. Having examined it and the political context of it, I can only say that my advice to that gentleman is: Cobbler, stick to your last. But it is not to be treated as lightly as that. The RSL has been a significant national organisation for over half a century. It has involved the loyalty, devotion and work of hundreds of thousands of people over that time. It calls on many people in all sorts of ways to conduct social exercises which are very valuable for the community. To many of us it has always representead something which I felt was part of the Australian spirit, that is, getting together and sticking together and so on. In the past few years it has buried itself deeply in the political mischief of honourable members on the other side of this House in such a way that it has dragged its own name in the dust and has done the cause of returned servicemen little good whatsoever. I regard the statement by  Sir Arthur  Lee as a personal insult. 
If the honourable member for Mallee subscribes to it, I say the same thing to him. Part of the statement reads: 
The proposed Moratorium would play a part in undermining Australia's security and is a betrayal both of our national interest and of our young men on the battlefield. 
He is accusing us. 
That is so. But by inference I am accusing men like the honourable member for Boothby of dragging Australia's name internationally in the dirt by his idiotic statements overseas.  Sir Arthur  Lee has accused men who have a record as good as he has of betraying the country. Hundreds of people are involved in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign in Victoria. Their record would be just as good as that of the honourable member, or for that matter of any other honourable member. There are people on this side of the House who have equally good records. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has a good a soldiering record as anyone. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has as good an airman's record as anyone. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did their duty. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  did his duty. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  was in it from go to whoa. Can all the honourable members opposite say the same? Where are all the young Liberals who speak in this House and smirk? Where are they to be found when the guns are booming and the battlefields are calling? They are sitting here smirking and snarling and sneering. I place the records of these men on the line as being as good as anybody's - even as good as the  President  of the RSL, no matter what it was like. Without any equivocation whatsoever I regard this statement as a persona] insult. Let us examine some more of the statement made by  Sir Arthur  Lee. 
The honourable member can read it for himself. The words are simple enough; even he will understand it. In the first paragraph,  Sir Arthur  Lee said that the Returned Services League wanted to dispense with rational debate. When will  Sir Arthur  Lee come out on the platform with us? When will the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  who is new to this house, come out on the platform and debate this subject with us? Would any of the honourable members opposite be prepared on Saturday morning to debate it with me in public in my electorate? Let them stand up and speak. But of course they are not prepared to do that. To start with, the point is invalid.  Sir Arthur  Lee also said: 
Attack our parliamentary procedures .... 
Little does he know. The people who have damaged the parliamentary procedures in this country are those who sit in the Parliament on the Government side. They are the ones who have made it difficult to have rational and conscientious debate in this place.  Sir Arthur  also said in this statement: 
The appeal is to the mentality of the stormtrooper. 
Has he never heard the speeches made by the honourable member for Boothby or the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)?  If there are stormtroopers about they are on the other side of the House, but their activities are never carried on outside the sanctity of this place. Then  Sir Arthur  talks about 'a long established Communist technique'. This is another example of an exercise in McCarthy ism. Is it not time we gave this approach away? Is it not time that the RSL and honourable members opposite recognised that this is a matter of great debate in the community and that the consensus is that Australia has been taken into a war? All the evidence over the last few weeks is that more than the people of Australia have serious doubts about Australia's military participation in the war. Is it not time that this was recognised? Do not honourable members opposite recognise it? 
You cannot carry your own electorate. You are a member of the minority Party in this place. Who are you to speak for the people of Australia? You are the person who is continuing to perpetuate this situation, and that goes for the honourable member who just interjected. 
I address my remarks to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and to the House. I also address my remarks to the honourable member who interjected and the honourable member who raised the point of order. They form part of the pattern of the present situation. Was not their political integrity, if I might term it that for the service that they give challenged yesterday by the lady in the gallery? Is this not part of the failure of the institution to respond to people's demands? Is not the repatriation system itself one of the most difficult things to break into? Does it not create the greatest amount of frustration? Is that not what the RSL ought to be attacking, root and branch? A person who is successful in being accepted by the repatriation system does very well indeed. It is Australia's most effective social service umbrella, as indeed it ought to be. But the frustrations that flow to people who are not accepted caused that very difficult scene that we witnessed in this House yesterday. The RSL ought to be trying to correct that situation. 
Yes, I am. I played an active and effective part in the local community as a member of that organisation. I believe that it is betraying the interests of its members, of the people who attend the meetings that I do and of the people who attend the reunions of the battalion of which I am a continuing member. The policy of the League is this: 
The League shall be national and non-secretarial and on all questions of parly politics as distinct from national questions, as outlined in the policy of the League, shall maintain a neutral attitude. 
I admit that this is a great national issue but it is also a very deep political issue. The Returned Services League is denying its charter and is going against the wishes of many thousands of its members in issuing these ultimatums, memos or whatever they are in the form of Press releases such as this. It is insulting not only members of the League and the community generally but also a large body of deep thinking people of great intellectual integrity. 
I also have here other Press releases - and the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  can read them - from people of importance in the church and State who support the idea that the time has come to stop and examine one's conscience. It may well be the honourable member should do the same. In  Sir Arthur's  statement he also says that this is 'an un-Australian campaign'. As I said earlier, that is a personal insult which does the RSL no good. It is not a credit to the people who designed it, and it is not true. Now I come to the final melodramatic sentence in his statement. He said: 
Leave your lights on and join the procession to Australia's Funeral! 
If the people who lead the League continue in that vein they will be leading that organisation to its funeral. That would be to the disadvantage of the people of Australia. The duties of the RSL are quite clear. They are to advance the causes of the servicemen of Australia, to challenge all those eccentricities in the repatriation system which need amendment and to try to make Anzac Day and the Australian flag mean something in the Australian context in modern times and not turn them into the figures of fun as they have done with so many young people of today. This is a matter which I deeply regret. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  seemed to me to be shedding a general air of complacency over the whole system which has been the pattern of the last 20 years or so, since the late  Sir Earle  Page precipitated the present system upon us. He used such words as 'minor and marginal problems'. Minor and marginal problems in health are major tragedies and disasters for the family who is afflicted with them. The criteria upon which I am likely to examine a scheme such as this are: Does it handle this kind of disaster? Does it handle the situation where somebody has to have an air ambulance, for instance, to save a life? At a lower level, what does it do about eye care, spectacles and so on? During the course of this debate there have been ample demonstrations that it does not cover these aspects. In fact, it is obvious that the present system has failed. There are lots of people who are not in the scheme. Those who are in the greatest need receive the least possible cover on occasions. Therefore 1 believe the whole system should be changed. I look at the Bill and see that it amends the National Health Act. Perhaps we should change the name of it. lt is a national insurance system of sorts; it is not a National Health Act. 
When I look at the system I ask myself: How many new hospitals will it build? How many new areas of research will it develop? How many new doctors will it train? How many new services will it supply throughout the community? How much greater security will it supply? It is not a national health system at all. It leaves so many areas of assistance to chance to be provided by municipalities. State governments and other areas of Commonwealth action. It is not a nat onal health system at all. We on this side of the House believe that what this country needs is a national health system. The honourable member for Denison, with the wisdom of Solomon, although Solomon is about 2,500 years out of date, referred to a remark made by my colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  but he misquoted or misunderstood the honourable member for Capricornia. I do not blame him for not reading every word of Hansard, unless of course he concentrates on my speeches. The honourable member for Denison said that my colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia, had lauded the Blue Cross system of the United States. However, the honourable member for Capricornia has assured me that he said nothing of the sort. In fact he said that he thought the Blue Cross system was like the present system here - it was shot full of holes. 
In fact, the schere that my colleague is advocating is the Kaiser scheme which operates on the west coast of the United States of America. The honourable member assures me that it is fully prepaid, it operates on salaried services, it has 8 million members at the moment, and it is expanding as fast as people care to join it and as fast as it can expand its services. In fact, it is giving great satisfaction to its members. In other words, it is something of the ideal to which we on this side of the House are dedicated. That ideal is that people can pay a fixed sum and get total coverage. I believe this is where we part company with honourable members on the other side of the House. I have no doubt of course that we each have the same social objectives and that we will all do the best we can to assist people who are in need and people who are stricken down by illness. However, honourable members on the other side have this continuing philosophy - I believe it is false in a modern society - that a fair area must be left to private initiative and to private schemes of this sort. The honourable member for Denison mentioned that our objective was to create an ideal society, and he gave his imprimatur to that in a kindly fashion. He seemed to think that it would not be possible to get a total coverage. Why should that be so? 

 His other philosophical point was that people should be encouraged to look after themselves. I represent one of the industrial areas of Australia where there are large numbers of migrants who wisely come to be represented in the seat of Wills. They are not the kind of people who can prepare for the contingencies of medical disasters. They are not the kind of people who can look after themselves. There are large numbers of people - I would think about 10% of this community, and it might even apply to every other community in the country - who have not the kind of expertise that- is required, who are short of money on occasions, who forget about it, who do not know at all or who cannot manage their affairs. Although there have been changes recently to take up the slack in relation to people who are below a certain level of income, this scheme still does not cover them. We live in a materialistic society. It always interests me that we can put a tremendous effort into the protection of property. If a house catches fire or a motor car crashes and bursts into flame, the first service to arrive will be the fire brigade to put out the fire. It is there on a full time basis and is totally dedicated to the preservation of property. The police will be the next to arrive on the scene to help in the protection of the property. If a motor car is involved, a tow truck will turn up too. 
First of all in all probability, yes. If the incident occurs on a Saturday afternoon or Sunday night, how long will it take to get medical services for the broken human beings? How long will it take the ambulance if people find themselves 20 miles from anywhere? This is the challenge of modern society. Whether we are dealing with people or property, are they the values which will be enshrined in this legislation? I can think of no reason at all why human beings should not receive the same service and the same immediate attention as property. That is the aim of the Labor Party in its social programmes. That is why we have a different view from that of honourable members on the other side of the House. The philosophical concept of private enterprise, of looking after yourselves, is incidental to the protection and the development of human happiness and human health. We know, of course, that this present scheme is totally inadequate. Over recent years it has been criticised extensively. 
There is a multiplicity of funds - over 100 - which spend large sums of money on administration, on advertising, on putting out beautiful brochures with a form on the bottom that can be completed by those who wish to apply for membership. These schemes do not provide a total cover. Everybody in the community is not covered all the time, and there are no funds available for capital development. How are we to build new hospitals? The finance has to come from somewhere else. It would seem to me that research, the capital development of hospitals and so on would be part of a national health scheme. 1 would be willing to pay extra fees because 1 get a higher salary than other people, despite what the honourable member for Denison had to say about it, if it would assist in producing for the community a system in which one's children, wife, parents, neighbours and friends are totally covered. Those are our objectives. Within the system funds should be readily available for the development of capital work. If we can have a total involvement of the fire brigade, if education and the police services are universal, why can health services not be universal as well? Of course, there has always been the fear of cost, lt is true that health services are very expensive undertakings, that hospitals are very expensive to run, that doctors are very expensive to train and probably equally as expensive to maintain because they deserve the best resources available for the job that they have to do. ft seems to me that our society has arrived at the stage at which the effort we put into giving totality and universality to education ought to be put into health services too. The Labor Party is prepared to embark upon that endeavour. In fact, that is our total objective. lt has been said that the Labor Party's approach will create all. sorts of difficulties. Let us examine for a moment some of the criticisms that have been expressed in relation to the development of the British health system. The British health system has been the victim for some 20 to 25 years of vigorous hostility from people who have come to this country and from honourable members on the other side of the House who see in this scheme some insidious evil Socialist force which will overwhelm the good health of the community. The national health scheme in Britain was one of the great contributions to British society. There is no doubt that before the last war British health services were inadequate and their hospitals were inadequate. Honourable members may read the same documents as I have read if they want to find out the facts about this. The health of the British people on the lower incomes was at a very low level. These facts and figures cannot be gainsaid. 
That is right. Then they had a total national service which saw that they were all properly fed and that total medical services were available to them. The best part of their manhood was spent in the Services and they were getting a total national medical service. I am fortified in my belief about this by a quote from the Melbourne 'Age', which reads: 
UK. health plan is 'misunderstood'. There is greater misunderstanding of the National Health scheme in Britain by Australians than any other people in the world. 
So said Lord Hayter, who is leading the British Hospital Equipment Trade Mission to Australia, in Melbourne . . . 
You don't realise that we will spend $2 1 5m on new hospitals alone this year.'  1 have heard people say in debates in this House that no new hospitals are being built in Britain. The article continues: 
Our public  relations  have been very bad,' he said. 
The honourable member for North Sydney should listen to this -  and Australians aren't told how it really works. 
Doctors who come to Australia from England tend to run down the scheme . . . they over compensate as they praise the good deal they get in Australia.' 
The average working class man who arrives in Australia with his family is struck by the inordinate costs of social welfare in Australia both in the field of education and in the field of health, lt would pay honourable members to make a study of the advantages and disadvantages of the British medical service. 
An article which I have before me points out some achievements of the British national health service. There is no gainsaying that errors and fallacies developed throughout the system. One cannot embark upon a major enterprise of that sort without producing errors. The first achievement was that it made a whole range of services from the general practitioner to the hospital available to the patient without fear of any financial burden. I ask: What is wrong with that? ls that the kind of objective that the honourable member for Sydney would reject for Australia? The second advantage was that it made regional planning of hospital services possible. I ask: Would not that be desirable in Australia? Would it not be desirable for hospitals not to have to fuss and to carry out bottle drives and make appeals to charity to fulfil their obligations? The third achievement was that it encouraged closer links between the mental and other health services. 1 ask: ls there anything wrong with an integrated health service? Fourthly, and this seems to be contrary to everything we have been told, it encouraged a better distribution of general practitioner doctors in the country by use of negative direction - by restricting entry into over-doctored areas and by offering positive incentives in the underdoctored areas. In 1952, 51% of the population was living in under-doctored areas. Today that proportion is down to 20%. Finally, it has encouraged a better standard of general practitioner work. lt is true that there are disadvantages in the scheme and that there are things that need to be altered. In some areas it has been difficult to make changes. For 20-odd years the national health service of Britain has been under constant attack in this country through the vested interests of people opposite who believe in the sanctity of private enterprise. They have been supported in this belief by the medical profession which until recently, when we on this side had an accession of liberal minded, advanced thinkers from the profession, was generally speaking a fairly conservative group in the community. 
The Opposition has been challenged about its proposals, lt is said that a salaried service would be the kiss of death to the medical profession. I ask: Why should a salaried service be the kiss of death to the medical profession, if it is satisfactory for thousands of teachers and scientists and others in the community who are as highly qualified academically as any member of the medical profession? Why do they say the profession would collapse? The Labor Party believes that there is room in the community for both private enterprise and a salaried service. I believe that we will not have a total system in the community until we have such a national health scheme. The way in which it is conducted and controlled is important. Some of the problems that have not been analysed will have to be analysed. It would be desirable if on occasions like this, in across the floor debate on a piece of printed fait accompli such as the Bill, 30 or 40 honourable members could sit around the table and discuss the legislation chapter and verse and have their ideas sewn into it. 
T ask: What is wrong with the repatriation hospitals? Are they not salaried medical services? Do they not supply a total national service to the fortunate people who can get into them? Is it not true that at the moment a large number of beds in the repatriation hospitals are empty? I believe that a salaried service can operate satisfactorily. The Minister said that we need a voluntary system. The Opposition believes, and it is obvious from the experience of the past, that a voluntary system in this field is not good enough, lt is the right of the person who is in serious want because of ill health or chronic disease to be attended to. The doctors have a personal duty to do this. The situation can only be resolved by some satisfactory taxation system. 
A week or 2 ago my colleagues on this side of the House sent a series of 5 questions to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  The Minister has had a distinguished record in a number of fields. He is a man whom 1 would have expected to involve himself deeply in the system so that he knew all about the hospitals of Australia. I would not expect him to know chapter and verse that there are so many beds in I hospital and so many in another, but I would expect him to know from where the information flowed and how accurate it was. As J recall, he was asked the difference between the systems in Australia and countries like Scandinavia and Britain. He was unable to say whether the facts were as stated. Obviously, a total study of the systems had not been developed - at least, it had not been made available to the Minister - nor had he felt, perhaps in view of his political philosophy, that it was necessary that Australia should develop from within its own resources despite the inertia of the past. That only proves that there has been inadequate consideration all along the line. The Minister, the Department and the Government parties have now become hotly involved wilh the medical profession. These are shades of 1948 and 1949. The medical profession would be much better advised to become totally involved with the political forces on this side of the House. If you want to change political systems you have to take political action. It is of little use sending us all nicely - duplicated notices. People have to stand and be counted at the ballot box if they want some action. It is their duty to do so. 
The question before' us is: Does the National Health Bill comply with the requirements of the community? Will it supply us with alt the desirable characteristics that are found in other national medical services? From the evidence that I have read and from those to whom 1 have spoken it seems that Britain is much closer to this ideal than we are, and much closer to it than the United States of America is. I suppose it is very dangerous at this time to quote an instance from behind the Iron Curtain. I beg the House in this instance not to regard what I have to say as a dangerous piece of fellow travelling by the honourable member for Wills. In 1964 I was travelling across Russia on the TransSiberia railway. Honourable members should try it some time. We arrived in the city of Irkutsk. My wife was ill. It was a Saturday afternoon. The guide said to us: You will need to get a doctor.' I thought of Saturday afternoons in Australia and the general attitude of Australians, that they have to be pretty sick before they call the doctor. We decided that it was desirable. Five minutes later the doctor arrived. Ten minutes later a prescription arrived. 
A highly qualified Russian lady doctor. I said: 'That is pretty good service. How does that happen?' She said: That is easy enough. I just dial the emergency service, 0.1.' It is probably the only place in the world, or one of the few places in the world, where medical assistance can arrive quicker than the fire brigade. I believe, and I think most of the community would, that that is a very desirable objective. They have resolved some of the problems by under-paying the medical profession. There were not many things that I saw in Russia of which I approved in general but in fact this was evidence of a social value which is totally lacking from the present system and therefore I commend the amendment to the House. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. A few minutes ago he implied that laws were broken in the streets of Melbourne last Friday. I ask the Prime Minister to say what laws the people of Melbourne broke in their manifestations in Bourke Street last Friday? As between 75,000 and 100,000 people surged into the Melbourne streets on a working day in the largest manifestation of political concern in Australian history, will he apologise to the people of Melbourne for the series of insults levelled at them by Government supporters last week? If no laws were broken does he approve of what happened? 
For 20 minutes we have heard the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  dismiss with characteristic equivocation the charges laid against the Government by one of the most respected members of this Parliament 
He spent 20 minutes defending the indefensible, explaining the inexplicible, and mutilating the immutable. He turned his great talents to arguments designed to confuse and confound. He comes into this House as one of the men with the greatest proven intellectual capacity. On every occasion I have listened to him on great issues in this place he has turned those talents to try to confuse and to explain that red is green and black is white. He avoided the issues completely. The charge here today is not that the 3 mile limit ought to be 300 miles or that it is a question of minerals or State rights. Charges have been levelled at this Government by a man who has held some of the highest offices in this country and who is respected as being an integral part of the governing political Party in this country. The issue here is that this Government has no honour. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said in the House last week: 
That offer was that the States should retain control of the mineral resources of the territorial seabed, that is, from low water mark to the 3 mile mark off-shore, while the Commonwealth legislated to take over total rights outside the 3 mile limit to the edge of the continental shelf. 
He said he made that offer. He outlined it exactly in the debate. We have seen the papers which were tabled. We have all been able to consider them. Finally, he stated to the House, in such a way that a large number of people are convinced, that these commitments were undertaken and that the Government has failed to honour that undertaking. These are hard words. They are not levelled at some private person in a private brawl. They are levelled at the Government of one of the world's major democracies by one of its most distinguished citizens, a man who has held the office of Minister for many years. He said: 
Mas public morality in this country declined to such a degree that an agreement entered into by the Commonwealth is not binding unless it is legally enforceable? ... Is it believed in Australia today that the word of the Commonwealth Government means nothing unless those to whom this word is given have some legal means of enforcing it? 
He has placed his political career on the line. That is the charge, and he is prepared to sustain it. Today we are not debating an ordinary issue. This is a challenge to the Government. The Government of Australia is indicted. The honourable member for Evans and the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  this afternoon have chosen to avoid the issues very skilfully, but they will have to answer to their consciences for it. As I listened to the honourable member for Chisholm, it seemed to me that he must have hobbled that great white charger he uses every week or so in this place on other issues. As far as I could ascertain, the honourable member for Evans charged every State Minister with dishonesty. He tried to cloud the issue with words to show that all they did was to misunderstand the situation, that this was something that flowed from their vested political interests in the situation, ls not that a charge of dishonesty against every State Minister involved in this? Are they all of that sort? Are they not all of the same political parties as the Government? That is what he has had to say. 
We are charging the Government with failure to honour its commitments. We have moved that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development, acting for and on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, that there would be further consultation with the States before the Commonwealth Government introduced any legislation on the territorial sea and continental shelf. As far as 1 can determine from the debate today and from a study of the papers, there is ample evidence that the honourable member for Farrer, acting in his capacity as a Minister in the Cabinet and in the Government, did make that commitment and there is ample evidence that the Government has failed to honour it. That is the way this Government conducts its affairs. It has become a one-man band in which 1 man makes decisions or is dilatory about making decisions and the rest of the country has to tag along behind. 
We have been charged with all sorts of things. I thought the honourable member for Farrer did demean his own contribution to the debate by the way in which he referred to the Australian Labor Party. We are not concerned here this afternoon with State rights. That is a question that can be resolved in other fields. We are not concerned with sovereignty. But we are concerned with Australia, with the way in which it is governed, with its people and with the integrity of its Government. It is the integrity of the Government that is under challenge here today. Of course, as the honourable member for Farrer and, I think, the honourable member for Chisholm said, there is a possibility of considerable difference of opinion. The honourable member for Chisholm referred to the honourable the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  formerly the AttorneyGeneral, as having had such and such to say of the discussions. The honourable member for Chisholm referred to the honourable member for Farrer, formerly the Minister for National Development, as having had such and such to say. What we have to say today is: Who is the more creditable witness? 
The honourable member for Farrer has an enviable record in this place and in the public mind. I regard him as a very conservative man. I recall that on the very first night I sat in this Parliament in 1956 - honourable members can check this in Hansard - there was a discussion about how Parliament ought to be conducted. The Treasurer of the time had introduced a Ministers of State Bill upon which there had been no consultation. It was obvious that the Opposition had not been advised. It was obvious that the forms of the House would be used by the majority to put this through. After some discussion, which went on in accordance with the normal procedures of the Standing Orders and so on, 3 members of the Government voted with the Opposition on a procedural motion. One of those members was the honourable member for Farrer, another was the present High Commissioner in Great Britain and the other was the former member for Franklin. Does anybody challenge their integrity? 
As far as I am concerned, following the 15 years for which 1 have been a member of this House, if I have to place reliance upon the judgment, the integrity, the sincerity and the keenness of observation of the honourable member for Farrer against that of the present Minister for Education and Science, my vote goes to the honourable member for Farrer because the Minister for Education and Science, during his time in this House as Attorney-General, continually associated himself with the 
McCarthyisms and other matters which were associated with his portfolio. At no stage did I ever see him give any impression that he was concerned in any way with what I would call the real values of democracy or with anything else. This is not to suggest that he was insincere consciously. 
But the facts are that in these matters about which I know something he was wrong. He was wrong in his judgment of the Australian Labor Party, its association with other political parties and the way we conduct our affairs. When the secondary school students came here a year or so back, he was wrong in his judgment of the situation on that occasion, as he realised when the evidence was placed before him. If I have to make a decision between the judgment of the honourable member for Farrer on the facts and the judgment of the former Attorney-General on the facts, I will support the honourable member for Farrer. I suggest that honourable members might take a look at the record of the honourable member for Farrer and the positions he has held in the Ministry and his offices in other areas. The honourable member for Farrer and the former Attorney-General are not equally good witnesses. But the issue, of course, is the integrity of the government of this country, and that is what honourable members have to answer for to their consciences and the country. 
The Prime Minister has been charged with arrogance. Is there anyone who cannot produce plenty of evidence .to show that over the last 12 or 18 months, or even further back, the Prime Minister has been trying to run this country, his Cabinet and the Parliament as a one-man band; that he is amply supported in this by other members of the Cabinet; that in fact we have lost a great deal of the initiative to executive management, in this instance the Prime Minister himself? One only has to look through the debate here this afternoon on the matter that was originally raised by the honourable member for Dawson relating to Ministers and so on to see that In this instance we cannot place any reliance on the way that this Government is handling the affairs of this country. So the problem here today is how the Commonwealth is to be governed, the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States, and the essence of what one might regard as the Cabinet contract. Is the Cabinet committed when a Minister makes a decision on its behalf? The honourable member for Evans said: 'Well, the Prime Minister is a busy man. He has a lot of things to do. He is handling all sorts of departments of State'. Does that not mean that he ought to rely more absolutely on the judgment of Ministers in charge of the various affairs? Of course he should. 
The Prime Minister, I believe, is gradually dragging this country and not only his own political Party into disarray, as we see here today. We on this side of the House belong to a party which has a long tradition of solidarity and discipline. When we come to a stage where some members of a parliamentary party are prepared to vote against that party on some ground of issue and' principle, it is a matter of high moment indeed. The Prime Minister is under challenge because this is happening here today to his Party. Then there is the other issue at stake-the collapse of the federal system as we know it. Everyone knows, of course, that we are not federalists as such, but we have to face the fact of life that Australia does not have 1 government but 7 governments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)I suggest that the honourable member is now getting a little wide of the motion before the House. The wider issue of the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States is not the subject of the debate on the motion before the House. It is a subject matter in itself, and the honourable member for Wills may refer to it only as an illustration. 
With proper respect,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  our motion says: 
. that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development. . . . 
So this is an issue of Cabinet integrity, but this is also a question which deeply involves the way we handle Commonwealth and State relations. This is the issue. The Governor-General in his Speech indicated a line of action upon which there had been no consultation, and therefore the position of the States was jeopardised. The whole question is one of Commonwealth and 
State relations. I do not see that it is about anything else, because if the Prime Minister and his Cabinet have no duties to the States there is no need to consult the States whatsoever - and that was the point I was coming to. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock&gt;Order! I point out to the honourable member that the point here is whether a prior commitment had been made, and the matter of Commonwealth and State relations is not an issue. The issue is whether a prior commitment has been broken. 

But surely this issue has been proven. During the course of the debate today and on the previous occasions the evidence of it has been laid before the House. I believe that this debate involves one of the fundamental issues of our time. This is not a debate on an Aged Persons Homes Bill; the fate of a government is being decided here today. The issues which are crystallised in this debate must be before the House or the debate has no meaning at all. We cannot indulge in abstractions hour after hour. The honourable member for Evans raised a multitude of questions. He raised the question of the way in which the States and the Commonwealth conduct their business. The Opposition has been challenged continuously today by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  and other honourable members on the other side of the House about its attitude towards CommonwealthState relations. I believe 1 am in duty bound to answer them. 
In this instance we are faced with the fact that the relationships between the Commonwealth and State governments - there are 7 governments altogether - are crystallised in the dispute which is the issue before the Parliament. I could detail in- : numerable other issues which are in dispute. The fact that the Commonwealth and. the States have lost complete faith in one another is symbolic of the breakdown in their relationships. Another question which is in issue is the relationship between the parties which form the coalition Government. We have discussed during the day the question whether the Government was committed and whether the honourable member for Farrer can be relied upon as a reliable witness. The point I am making now is that Australia can no longer be governed in this fashion. The undemocratic leadership of the Government is being challenged. The Government has been charged with arrogance and showing a lack of consideration to the States. Furthermore, there are disputes within the political parties which form the coalition Government and there are disputes within the States. 
Australia is being torn with discord because of this very issue. Great disputes within the political parties which form the Commonwealth Government and the 6 sovereign governments which make up the federal system of Australia are causing the whole system to collapse. The issues which are at stake are the integrity of the Government and the way in which the country is being governed. Another matter is whether we have a Government in which there is Cabinet solidarity and collective Cabinet responsibility. Australia's minerals, its industries and laws and its social welfare are involved in the relationships between the Commonwealth and State governments. If they have been damaged irreparably, as it would appear, because of differences in the governing parties of this coalition Government and the governments of the States then great damage has been done to Australia and this House should reject the Government. Therefore, I should vote in favour of the motion of censure. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

As has been pointed out in this House before, a motion for dissent from the Speaker's ruling produces one of the most important discussions upon which we can embark. There are 2 ways in which we can decide whether the ruling is in order or is out of order. The first way is by reference to the Standing Orders, and the second way is by reference to the precedents that have been established. I believe that more or less the first precedent established in this field indicates that you should reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson).  It is our belief - this is confirmed by a study of the English language or any consideration of it at all - that the amendment put is a direct negative of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  which is in these terms: 
. the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House Because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development 
The amendment proposed by the honourable member for Casey says:  that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. 
On any understanding of the English language as I know it and as it has been used here, and on any interpretation of its precision and the way in which it is used, those 2 sentences negative each other. On the one hand one says that the Govern- ment failed to honour a commitment made to the States, but on the other hand the other one says that the House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. One is the direct negative of the other. No matter what kind of padding is added to it, no matter what is added to it to expand the amendment or to bring in other matters, the facts are that these 2 sets of words are inconsistent. I am supported in my view in this matter by a ruling given in 1936. 
In May 1936 a censure motion was before this House. On that occasion  Mr Harold  Holt, who later became Prime Minister, moved an amendment upon which a discussion ensued. I believe that the terms of the amendment, the terms of the discussion and the ruling by the  Speaker  are particularly relevant to the discussion before us on this occasion. The words, of course, are not identical. The motion from the Labor Party was: 
That this House censures the Commonwealth Government for its failure . . . 
It then refers to various sorts of things. To that motion  Mr Harold  Holt moved that the motion be amended by adding the words: 
It commends the proposal for an inquiry into the application of this principle . . . 
That amendment was immediately challenged by the mover of the original motion,  Mr Curtin,  who later became one of Australia's great Prime Ministers.  Mr Curtin,  who rose to order, said: 
I submit that the amendment is irregular in form and cannot be put from the Chair, because it is in substance a negative and contemplates what is an expanded negative. I refer to 'May's Parliamentary Practice'. 10th Edition, page 279 .. . 
Honourable members opposite will find that reference at page 419 of the edition of 
May' on me table of the House, Subsequently  Mr Speaker  Bell, who was the Presiding Officer at that time, said: 
In my opinion, the mere adding of words urging some one to take certain action does not put in order an amendment otherwise a direct negative. 
He further said that a former Speaker of the House of Commons had ruled that an amendment was merely an expanded negative. This was bis ruling and 1 commend it to honourable members. This concerns all of us in the conduct of this House and in fact in the formulation of amendments: 
. but 1 have already said that the essential point is that the motion asks the House to censure the Government, whilst the amendment urges it to approve the Government's action, and ny opinion is that a motion that seeks to censure the Government, should be met by a vote of 'aye' or 'no' rather than by an amendment that is a negation of the motion. I therefore rule that the amendment is not in order. 
This was said on 6th May 1936, by one of Australia's most distinguished Speakers, I presume, the Honourable G. J. Bell. 1 believe that precedent is one which we ought always to consider when we are considering censure motions in this place. 
There is always a certain mystical quality about the speeches of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate).  One is never quite sure what he means by it all. He is opposed to this Bill. He is not opposed to it to the point where, if it came to the crunch and it meant the defeat of the Government, he would vote against it.  His  principles would not carry him that far; that is obvious. But there are a few  things  to which he is dedicated. He is dedicated to the principle of private enterprise and freedom, lt is a pity he does not extend that to the 20-year-olds who are being called up under the National Service Act. It is a pity he does not extend that principle to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which nationalises for his benefit, and the benefit of people like him, the industrial workers of Australia. Apparently the only things he is prepared to nationalise are 20-year-olds and industrial workers. Of course he did say - I suppose this is to his credit - that honourable members opposite are cabin's, cribb'd and confin'd inside the party room. As the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said today, they are not allowed to discuss anything. 
The honourable member for Macarthur seems to labour under a few misconceptions. He mentioned left wing governments. Presumably he was referred to governments that have a faintly democratic Socialist flavour - what we might call Labor governments. They all appear to be running backwards as far as he is concerned. Has he ever been to Sweden? Is not Sweden a model of what a progressive rational Socialist government can achieve over a period of 30 or 40 years? Its standard of living is rising rapidly, far beyond the reach of this country. Our standards are subsiding. 
Has he ever given thought to Israel, beleaguered as it is in the Middle East, with its very small population and with a Labour government holding off all its enemies and developing the country as well? Has he thought of West Germany which, I suppose, is enshrined in his mind as a booming country? It now has a Socialist leader. Has he thought of Norway and Denmark which, over the last few years, have progressed under Labour governments. Has he looked at Singapore, where the Peoples Action Party is a Socialist party - a Labour party? Has he had a look at what is happening in Britain where a Labour government has managed, over the last 5 or 6 years, to drag that country out of the doldrums into which a political party to which he would adhere had dumped it in previous years? Of course, this is part of the theory of those members opposite whe rise and talk about these subjects and express a lot of airy fairy nonsense, as indeed the honourable member for Macarthur did. He said that there would bc no development at all if people such as wc on this side of the House were handling the affairs of this nation. Where was his Party when the Snowy Mountains scheme was inaugurated in 1949? Members of his Party boycotted it. 
I understand that the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  was present, as was the honourable member for Chisholm who was then, 1 think, the  Deputy  Premier or the Minister for Transport in Victoria. He was probably taking somebody for a ride during the course of it. But members of that magnificent institution, the Liberal Party as it is called, and members of its Country Party satellite all stayed away. But now, of course, the Snowy Mountains scheme is a wonderful scheme and they are deeply proud of it. 1 mention also the trans-continental railway. We can run through the whole gamut of Australian achievement and find that many of them have been Government initiated, most of them initiated by Labor governments. So much nonsense is uttered by members opposite. My colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  I think satisfactorily demolished the economic arguments advanced by honourable members opposite. 
Before 1 examine what the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  had to say, I feel I ought to answer some of the remarks of the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie).  I think he regards himself as some sort of economic mastermind. He called upon my colleagues, the honourable members for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and Kingston  (Dr Gun)  to participate in this debate. They are quite happy to participate in the debate but, by agreement, we have agreed to end the debate soon. However, the honourable member for Cook denounced the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  for having made what might be called a fairly shallow, uninformed kind of speech. Then he launched into what might be called very deep philosophical considerations of the situation by making such earth shattering comments as: 'Rising employment and higher wages means growth in consumer spending'. What a devastating discovery! How many economic degrees does one need to realise that? How many long years does a person have to work in a private banking system to be able to discover that when people have more money and spend more of it they actually purchase more goods with it? Then he made another discovery. I understood that it was floating around; in fact, the Minister for Trade and Industry seems to sleep with it under his pillow, not that he does anything about it. Even dogs are barking it. He discovered that the cost of servicing foreign investment is steadily growing. What a remarkable achievement by him! He had the brass to stand and criticise the Leader of the Labor Party for having made what might be described as a non-professional speech. If his contribution was professionalism, it is time the economic faculties of our Australian universities had a good look at their teaching. 
Do I sense amongst all the people opposite a feeling of disquiet at the increasing control of Australian industry by overseas investors? For years it has been part of the mystique; for years it has been the legend; for years the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has been saying how wonderful it is to have all this money pouring in. Even in the cloud of words which he used as a speech, we could determine that somewhere there was some disquiet and that Australians should look at the situation. 
Let us examine the speech of the Minister for Trade and Industry - his rather rhapsodic exercise. He said that the Corporation will be the most wonderful thing that has happened to Australian industry; that the Corporation will operate expressly to assist Australian industry to expand its capacity and scope and to increase its efficiency and competitiveness. I wonder whether we can expect that. He said that it is going to assist in marshalling financial resources, particularly from overseas. By waving some magic wand the money that comes from overseas instead of filching away the national ownership of Australia is going to confer upon us some intimate blessing. I am blessed if I can see how it is going to do it. It is going to help where the ordinary banking system and other financial systems cannot meet the financial needs of Australian interests and Australian industry, so the Minister says. Why is this? Of course, the Government has allowed the Australian banking system to pour its money into all sorts of ventures. The banks are now developers of land in the cities of Australia. They are now one of the greatest investors in hire purchase. This Government has allowed the Australian banking system to abdicate its real responsibility to the people of Australia and become money lenders pure and simple. Then the Minister said that we are to have capital in a non-equity form. I wonder what advantage this will confer upon the lucky borrowers. Are there not any lessons to be learned from Australian history in this regard? Nearly all those things that have been built with borrowed capital - the railway systems of Australia are the principal victims - will have to carry a load of debt down to the end of time. They can never stagger out of it. 
 The honourable member for Macarthur - I do not regard him as the deepest political thinker in this nation - did mention interest rates. The Minister for Trade and Industry gave his blessing to higher interest rates. Now in Australia they have risen to the point where I claim that they are not interest rates any longer but straight out usury. We have interest rates of 8% and 8£% in the banking system and 9% and 10% outside. On some sorts of mortgages the interest rate is 12%. If we borrow money at 9% and 10% and have to pay the servicing charges, as the honourable member for Macarthur pointed out, how are wc to pay dividends? If this is the kind of company we are to help, why is it so short of chips that we have to supply money out of taxpayers' funds? Of course I must say that I am not a great believer in the institution that is being established. It may lay the foundations for a future Labor government to do something about it, but I am quite certain that we will do it much belter than the Government, lt will lend to projects and take an equity in them. As has been pointed out, its capital will be paid up to $25m initially, lt can get S25m each year for 4 or 5 years provided it gives a year's notice. What a staggering sum for the ninth or tenth wealthiest country in the world. About 2.5 Fills every year to be invested in Australian industry and it will shake the foundations of private enterprise if we get hold of it, according to the honourable member for Cook and other honourable members opposite. It will straighten up the whole staggering system of capitalism in Australia, according to its advocates on the other side of the House. I do not believe it. In his second reading speech the Minister for Trade and Industry said: 
We will set up a Corporation of significant stature and image as a borrower.  lt will be able to borrow up to 5 times its limit. How far does that get us with some of the significant industries in Australia? How far would it get us in developing the deposits of bauxite at Gove, which should not be developed by foreign investors and in fact, in the interests of the Aboriginal people there, should not at this stage be developed al all in my opinion. Listening to the right honourable gentleman deliver his speech we heard one of the new examples of jargon. I had not run across this one before but I noticed that the honourable member for Cook employed it tonight also. He said: We will have the equity sweetener'. 1 wonder what that is? He even gave his blessing to higher interest rates. But he said, and this is the rub: 'lt will become entirely a part of the private enterprise scene'. How can something that is publicly owned, and publicly controlled, with the directors appointed by a public authority - in this case the Government - be anything but a public institution? Just what kind of nonesense are we coming at? ls it not a fact that it will be a government institution using public funds for private purposes? ls it not a fact that that is part of the way in which over the centuries the ordinary members of the public have been exploited for the advantage of private enterprise and private profits? I believe that this is an aspect to which we should turn the deepest possible attention. The Corporalion's role will differ from the customary role of a statutory corporation or even from a government owned company or business concern. 1 do -not know how much of this is just words. I do not know how much of it is wool pulled over the eyes of honourable members opposite so that the Minister for Trade and Industry may get his operation launched. He said that it will not become the dominant element in the ownership of an industry. It is supposed to disposses itself once the enterprise becomes profitable. This is the way in which honourable members opposite use the Australian governmental system as an instrument of private enterprise - as a way in which they can bolster private enterprise. Then the simple shareholder who happens to be the citizen of Australia opts out. 1 believe that this is a quite conscienceless abuse of public power. If we go into it we should own it. I see nothing wrong with the Australian Government putting money into a concern and owning part of it. Why should we not go into partnership? It has been successful in Sweden and in some parts of Australian industry. I understand that the British Government owns a fair slice of the shares in British Petroleum. The Minister said that the Corporation will play a passing role. On one occasion when discussing the political philosophies of honourable members opposite the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  said - at least the remark has been attributed to him - that what they want to do is capitalise their gains and socialise their losses. This Corporation guarantees them against losses and it will be used to gel their hands on the gains. I do noi think this is such a miraculous piece of legislation. The Corporation may be the McEwen Bank. I think it is more likely to be the McEwen mirage. 
Let us examine some of the previous shadow sparring we have indulged in. As an historical exercise I thought it was worth while turning back the pages to see what we have done in the past. 1 have here a number of pieces of earlier legislation. Some of them were fought out with great vigour in this place since I came here. Let me refer first of all to the Australian Industries Preservation Act of 1906. lt would restrain monopolies, so we were told. Section 7 of the. Act reads:  (1.) Any person who monopolises or attempts to monopolise, or combines or conspires wilh any other person to monopolise, any pan of the trade or commerce with other countries or among t lie States, is guilty of an  indictable  offence. 
That section was hardly ever used. The Act was hardly looked at from 1911 to 1963 or 1964. Then we had the Interstate Commission of happy memory. It was to be a remarkable achievement. Introducing the Interstate Commission Bill in 1912 the Right Honourable William Morris Hughes, as he later became, said: 
It has to be noted that the Interstate Commission will not be merely a Commission of inquiry. It will possess, as I have already pointed out, powers of administration and adjudication. 
He had a lot to say about what this remarkable instrument would achieve. He said: 
We have, therefore, given the Commission power to investigate, on its own initiation, a wide range of subjects. . . . 
The Commission may, for instance, investigate matters affecting the production of and trade in commodities, the encouragement, improvement and extension of Australian industries and manufacture, bounties paid by foreign companies to encourage foreign snipping, and so on - page after page, but nothing ever happened. Then we come to one of the brighter creations of our former colleague, the Right Honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies. This was the Motor Vehicles Agreement Bill of 1940. Introducing the Bill - this is interesting in view of later philosophies which he developed - the right honourable gentleman said: 
If we establish a motor car manufacturing industry in Australia we shall reduce the demand that this country has for dollars . . . 
As I recall, in 196S when we launched our unhappy commitment in Vietnam it was to try to get dollars. The right honourable gentleman also said in 1940: 
If we are to produce in Australia from our own resources tanks, armoured cars and motor transport to carry our armies over large distances, - that point has a great significance for us in Australia - we must set about the business of making internal combustion engines. 
Well, not one motor car was produced under that legislation. Then there is another distinguished piece of legislation - the International Labour Organisation Act. It has been on the statute book since 1947. We send delegations of great tonnage overseas at great expense and they consider at some length matters before the International Labour Organisation. It is a very useful exercise for honourable members to turn up the pages of Hansard. As recently as 7th May this year the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  asked what we had done about International Labour Organisation Conventions Nos 2, 23, 32, 52, 58, 62, 81, 84, 92, 98, JOI, 202, 109, 112, 118, 123 and 128. The answer from this fine procrastinating set opposite is: Nothing. So I am not one of those who places great store in the fact that something placed on the statute book might have enshrined in its deep Socialist principles. 
Then there is that wonderful creation of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  - the Trade Practices Act. This legislation was fought out vigorously throughout the land. From one end of the continent to the other people were shivering in their shoes. We were bombarded with letters and telegrams telling us what this legislation would do to us. Introducing the legislation the Minister, who was then Attorney-General, said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to preserve competition in Australian trade and commerce to the extent required by the public interest. Competition is an essential ingredient of any free enterprise economy. 
That is, unless the competition happens to be developed by the Commonwealth Bank or Trans-Australia Airlines. We do not want that sort of competition. Those were fine words by the Minister. What has happened under this legislation? I understand that we have a Commissioner. I understand that one of the breweries has been told that it should not do what it has been doing, but it has not taken much notice. After 5 years we have got just about nowhere with that legislation. The political party opposite has a tine record of bringing down legislation, having a great deal to say about it, causing a great furore and then producing nothing. Having listened to the debate so far I am moved to ask: Why do so many people opposite, who claim to be Liberals and Australians, demonstrate such a terror of public ownership? What is so terrible about 12 million shareholders owning something? What is so terrible about the operations of a concern being the responsibility of this Parliament? 
I believe that those people who continually attack public enterprise are recording a vote of no confidence in themselves. It is a vote of no confidence in their Party, in their Parliament and in the people, for do they never look at the record? Is not 
Qantas, Australia's own airline, a totally publicly owned company? Is it not one of the world's great airlines? Has it not established one of the finest records for safety, service and economy? Is it not one of the few airlines in the world which operate without government subsidy? I have only one grudge with Qantas. At the present moment it does not seem to have the nerve to land in Israel although it lands in Arab countries. But that is a side issue here. What about Trans-Australia Airlines? Honourable members opposite believe in competition. How long would  Sir Reginald  Ansett and his fleet last if Trans-Australia Airlines was really turned loose? How long would they have lasted without the protection of Government Acts and Government sponsored departments? What is wrong with the State Dockyard at Newcastle? I understand it is one of the most efficient dockyards to be found anywhere. What is wrong with the State Electricity Commission or the State Savings Bank in Victoria which is about the largest bank in Victoria, but is shackled because the Government does not want it competing? There is the Commonwealth Bank itself. When is the Government going to allow it to compete? 
These are some of the issues that are before us today. We seem to be suffering from a national inferiority complex. We seem to be begging around the world for somebody to come in and own various of our assets. Why is it that Switzerland, with about one-third of our population and 12,000 miles away, has the funds, the expertise and the know-how to come here and develop some of our bauxite deposits. We in this place allow people to say 'We have not the funds to do it'. Why is it that Sweden is in such a dominating position in the world in so many specialised fields of industry? How is it that Britain, a tiny dot of land, for 3 centuries has been able to overcome these difficulties? I want to know where our national spirit is. 
As I see it, the real principle that we are being asked to espouse here today - we on this side of the House give it what might bc called a qualified blessing - is the use of governmental power for private profiteering. This is the negation of the private enterprise principles that are continually espoused by honourable members opposite. 
Why is it that they come in to protect the private banks against the free flowing exercise of the power of competition by the Commonwealth Bank? Why is it that the private airlines have to be protected against the public enterprise airlines? Why is it that we have to give subsidies to the petroleum companies? Why is it that we have to give subsidies to the shipping companies? Why is it that when we give a subsidy of one-third of the cost to a shipping company that spends $5m or $6m on a ship we do not own one-third of it? Why is it that we have to subsidise some of the tycoons of the world? Why is it that if honourable members opposite are so confident that private enterprise and free competition are so good that we constantly have to dicker with the system and have tariffs to protect industries from private enterprise in other parts of the world? We happen to be a protection Party but the facts are that there is no such thing as private enterprise; there is no such thing as free enterprise of this sort: and there is no such thing as a free moving enterprise system in which governments do not intervene on behalf of some industries. 
Most of the large industries of Australia are protected in one way or another. The industries producing superphosphate, motor cars, or anything else are protected by Government action and, therefore, it is a false doctrine that is being espoused by honourable members opposite. The people of Australia should wake up to it. 1 hope that the House will start to examine the possibilities of really developing this Corporation in the way in which the Italians have developed theirs and in the way in which 1 understand the Swedes have been able to develop large areas of Swedish enterprise. I hope before very long the people of Australia will realise that we cannot have a national spirit and that we cannot be anything else but a colony if we permit decisions about the destiny of large areas of the economy of the country to be made in the board rooms of Detroit, London, West Germany and Zurich. Therefore if this Bill is a demonstration that there is a slowly growing national spirit on the other side of the House I welcome it. But I do not regard it as any great movement towards a solution of these problems. It is just what one might term another McEwen mirage. 
1 support the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  in his remarks. I believe the whole community and both sides of the Parliament - all political parties - have in large measure neglected what would be their duty to people who are disabled by some form such as deafness and blindness and nearly any other physical disability. These are handicaps for which the state accepts very little responsibility. 
This morning I want to say something about the Australian Press and the need, I believe, for a new ethic to be established in respect of the Press - a new attitude towards the ownership of the Press and the need for a different sense of responsibility, so far as the Press is concerned, to the Australian public. This is a very important medium, and the folk who control the Press also control to a large measure radio and television. 
I am moved to speak on this subject today by the fact that the British Press Council has been in existence for some years and it is time that Australia had something similar. The British Press Council is a voluntary body and it has these functions: To consider complaints about the conduct of the Press or the conduct of persons and organisations towards the Press. It works both ways - both to preserve the freedom of the British Press and to maintain the character of the British Press in accordance with the highest professional and commercial standards. I am moved to this because at this stage there are 2 very important State elections pending in Australia, one in Victoria and one in South Australia. In Victoria, particularly, because of the mass population of Melbourne, the fact that the Press, radio and television are controlled by a small group of interests and the fact that there is a small number of papers circulating in Melbourne, it is important that the Press not only publishes all the news but publishes it accurately and does not create news. 
In Victoria, in my view, there has been a suppression of news or, one might even say, a distortion of news by the Melbourne Herald' in its treatment of a recent gallup poll. For instance, its headline in April about the gallup poll reads: '8% Swing to Gorton Since October'. That is fair enough. That was the figure for Australia. But as far as the people of Victoria are concerned, it is that State which is important. The 'Herald' suppressed, I have no doubt consciously and with a view of concealing from the public the danger of the defeat of the Bolte Government, the facts relating to Victoria as disclosed in the gallup poll. In Victoria 1 ,693 people were interviewed, and the poll showed that 827 or 48.8% said they would vote for the Australian Labor Party. On the other hand only 7.7% said they would vote for the Democratic Labor Party. This is the significant figure: Only 33.7% said they would vote for the Liberal Party. That information was suppressed, and I believe that such a headline indicating that there had been a swing against Labor in Victoria was a distortion of the news. Admittedly the 'Herald' owns the copyright for the gallup poll, and 1 suppose te that extent it can do what it wishes. But the Australian Press, because of its monopolisitc control of the forms of information, has a duty to the community. So 1 want to place on record my concern with the way in which it has operated in this matter. 
In Victoria at the present moment there are 3 large newspapers - the 'Herald' and the 'Sun News- Pictorial', both owned by Herald and Weekly Times Ltd, and the Age'. I regret that 'Newsday' folded up. I believe that it did not meet the requirements of a modern society in Melbourne, but Melbourne could have done with another daily evening newspaper. On the other hand, the Press is guilty of creating' news. Recently there have been discussions about certain parts of Labor's policy in Victoria, but the heading 'Labor in Pieces' in a leading article in the Melbourne 'Age' of I. 1th May was in fact quite false. People might have had views about policies but there was no internal dispute in the Labor Party in Victoria and I believe that this was a piece of mischievious misreporting. This is the kind of thing a Press council would be able to deal with and it would be able to establish some ethics. Another area in which it could become involved, particularly in Melbourne, is the control of the Press itself. This would represent an addition to the charter of the British Press Council. Something must be done about the growing monopoly of the Australian Press. 1 want to quote from another organ which 1 do not ordinarily quote as an organ of informed democratic opinion, but last year the 'Daily Telegraph' published an article headed: Danger from Melbourne's Growing News Monopoly', lt states: 
If the Melbourne 'Herald' succeeds in its bid for the 'West Australian' and "Daily News', Perth, it will have tentacles in every Australian capital except Sydney. 
In the few minutes one has this morning one cannot elaborate on the control which this institution exercises over Australian Press, radio and television. One can find details of it published in many quarters. In particular, this article in the 'Daily Telegraph' shows its investments in newspapers, television and other fields of great concern. 
Of course, there are other things to which a Press council ought to turn its attention. The Australian Press on occasions seems to disregard the rights of private citizens. 1 have just had a survey made of the number of writs issued by private individuals against the Press in New South Wales alone over the last 3 years. In 1969, 10 were issued; in 1968, 10 were issued; and in 1967, 9 were issued. These are writs issued mostly by individuals against the Press for defamation, libel and so on. Of course we on this side of the House are aware of the great battle that went on for many years between the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the Press, .in which the honourable member for Reid was finally triumphant. Other members of the Parliament has suffered in the same way. Recently the proprietors of the 'Daily Telegraph' had judgment given against them for 520,000 in a case brought by an individual in Sydney. In the ordinary course of events an individual cannot initiate campaigns against the Press. 
There are other areas in which I think the Press is quite unethical. One of them, of course, is its intrusion into private individuals' lives. I believe that I am supporting here in some way the remarks of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I do not believe that the Press has the right to publish photographs which harrass or cause concern and distress to people. Many of the photographs one sees of accidents are quite unethical, and some of the remarks that are made by Press writers are equally unethical. I came upon a remarkable piece of journalism in the Hobart 'Mercury', which I think has a monopoly of the morning news in Hobart. The paper, referring to the Moratorium a week or so back, said: 
The goings on at the Moratorium affair  today  will just have to be anti-climax after the affectionate displays of tolerance. . . . 
Then the article runs on with some reference to Hitler and Mussolini. I believe this is a disgraceful article to be either written by an Australian journalist or published by an editor. It states: 
For today let me remind you that spitting on the footpath is illegal, so be accurate. 
What kind of editing is that? It is a completely unethical publication. On the other side, we have to do something about the protection of the freedom of the Press. I have here a report of a case brought by Maxwell Newton Publications in Canberra last year, I think, in which Maxwell Newton 
Publications finally obtained judgment. The case involved unethical use by the Government of its power or, one might say, abuse of its power. In Vietnam the Press is controlled in a large measure by the Australian forces. 1 understand that Australian journalists may interview an Australian soldier only when he is accompanied by an officer or a public relations man. This is a restriction on the freedom of the Press. One is reminded of the reports that came back from Gallipoli during the First World War from the late  Sir Keith  Murdock which revolutionised attitudes in this country. 
But there also has to be some protection for the journalist and some freedom to print. There has been too much secrecy. There is a tendency to regard news as being a security matter. 1 believe that for the sake of Australian democracy it is urgent that what one might call the contradiction between the 2 sides of the Press - the freedom to print and the freedom of the individual - be resolved. It will be resolved only by some authority which is able to examine each of these cases on its merits. lt is important that citizens, and particularly working journalists, be protected against the arbitrary decisions of the managements of Australian Press, managements which are largely irresponsible in the political sense and becoming increasingly monopolistic in the strictest and most liberal sense of the word. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  finished so quickly that he took me by storm. I thought he would probably have had about another 50 teachers colleges built by this. I sympathise with the honourable member for Mallee in the remarks that he has made. But it is odd that he has supported for all these years the type of party which does nothing about the political policies that he espouses. I am astonished that he has sat with such a party for so long. Why does he not come over to our side and adopt a more sensitive policy about these matters? While he was talking with what one might call a measure of sense, I am quite confident that he wanted to get his remarks into the 'Bulletin', the Daily Mail', the 'Sunraysia Times' or some other such publication. That was his contribution to the debate on this education Bill. He made a remark about the generosity of the Government's approach to teachers colleges. They are to receive $10m each year for 3 years. It is spread over a nation in which the greatest professional demand is probably for teachers. The Bill does not seem to me to be generous, at least not when compared to the approach of this Government in so many other matters. 
The Coburg Teachers College, which is in my electorate, is mentioned in the Bill, so I am able to be parochial today. Of course, I think it is important that we do something about areas such as that. It is too late to worry about decentralising educational institutions when we have managed to centralise all the people in the industries. Coburg Teachers College is a major educational institution, but nobody would think so when driving past it. It is one of the products of the Victorian humble attitude towards building standards. It is a well-kept building and is in open grounds. But it has been waiting for years for decent playing facilities around it. I do not think it has such facilities as extra gardening staff. Quite an amount of labour is involved in maintaining the place as a respectable looking institution. 
That is right. It is different from the gaol against which property it abuts. It has 660 students and has 2 year and 3 year courses. The honourable member for Mallee and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  who seems to be the prince of complacency in this place when it comes to any matter of consideration, ought to examine whether these meagre amounts and this meagre approach by the Commonwealth will solve the education crisis. I represent the areas of Brunswick and  Coburg.  There are 26 primary, secondary and technical State schools in the area. It is my firm conviction that every child in those State schools is served worse with educational and teaching facilities than back in the 1930s. In the 1930s, when I taught in some of those classes for a short period, every teacher before the class was qualified. Every teacher in the high schools was qualified with degrees and diplomas. At the present moment in most of the schools a large number of classes are facing unqualified teachers. So I ask myself when this measure is before the House whether it will solve that problem. 
This afternoon 1 have undertaken to the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  who is extraordinarily co-operative at the moment, that 1 will not take my full time in this debate. But I want to place on record some facts. Do not, for heavens sake, let us become complacent about education, whether it is in Victoria or anywhere else. We have a teacher crisis on our hands. There are shortages of places in teachers colleges. I have here an article from the Sydney Sun' of January 1970 headed '2,000 Miss Out! Teacher-training scholarships'. Will this Bill before the House solve this problem? My colleague, the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  pointed out that there is a piece-meal and dilatory approach to the question of education. The teacher is the key to future education. There are population pressures on the education system. But in areas such as mine there are higher educational aspirations which are imposing the greatest possible demand on higher education facilities, that is. at the senior secondary level and at the tertiary level. 
It has always been my disappointment that education planners and the census people and others have never been able to sense the higher level of education aspiration which one may find in the parent body in areas such as mine. About 10 years ago there were some 34 people doing matriculation in the suburb of Coburg. This year the figure is up towards 200. That, of course, is part of the immeasurable social statistics, but it is one of which anyone with any social sensitivity at all would have been conscious long since this. A teacher crisis is with us. lt is recognised everywhere, lt is important that this Parliament turn more attention to it. I continually read in the newspaper such headlines as these: 
Parents want new training for teachers. 
Terrible mess in teacher training. 
Teachers should be trained to the highest level. 
These are continuing sequences of newspaper items over the last 12 months or so. No measure of complacency from the opposite side of the House can show that we are in any way solving these problems. The teacher is the most important functionary in the school. Certainly each child is important, but without the trained and effective teacher the education system collapses. Are these measures and is the attitude expressed in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  going to solve some of the problems, such as the need for raising the level of professionalism of teachers. I have here an article from the Bulletin' written by  Mr Fitzgerald,  the Chief Research Officer of the Australian Council of Educational Research. I suggest that members ought to examine it very thoroughly. He points out that teachers are in a disadvantageous position not only financially but socially and as far as their professional qualifications and training are concerned. He states: 
Teachers, of course, do not enjoy such an advantageous position as their medical counterparts. While being harassed from without, they have become subject to growing internal doubts about the value and relevance of much of what schools have traditionally done. 
This,  of  course,  is  one  of  the principal disabilities from which the educational system  is  presently suffering. I think the situation  in  Victoria  is  relevant because  a  fair measure  of  this money is to go to Victoria, Victoria will receive some $9m or $10m for its half  a  dozen colleges, 2 of which are associated with universities. I believe, therefore, that some discussion of university education is relevant at this point, although I do not propose to embark upon such  a  discussion. In Victoria there is a growing discontent in the teaching service. A couple of years back some teacher recruiters, one might call them, arrived in Australia from Montreal. They visited New Zealand; they went to Tasmania; they came to Melbourne; and they went on to Sydney. I went in and saw them at their place in Melbourne. They were surprised and gratified at the response they received in New Zealand. But this is what they were to expect. They were surprised and gratified enough in Tasmania. They were overwhelmed in Melbourne. They were absolutely astonished by the number of teachers who wanted to leave the Victorian teaching service. A number of Victorian teachers have of course crossed the Pacific and ended up in Canada. This is one of the facts of life. In the moments that are allowed me this afternoon at a time such as this when one is full of the cooperative spirit, I can only pose the question: Do these measures in any way help to fill the bill? Several other matters were raised here this afternoon. I think we ought to challenge the attitude of the honourable member for Diamond Valley on the question of bonded teachers. If he took the trouble of studying the policy of the Australian Labor Party on teacher training and education, he would find that some years ago it was resolved that no teachers ought to be bonded. 
I am a product of the bonded teacher training system myself, both before the Second World War in primary education and after the war during the reconstruction training scheme. I found there were not very many other places that I could go for work. 1 found it an affront to my personal esteem to be bonded in that way. 1 can think of no reason why teachers should be placed in a different position from all other people who go through universities doing medicine, law, engineering, architec ture, some of them on Commonwealth scholarships and others paying their own way. I think that the average university student who is paying his own way, certainly at the Australian National University, would be costing the community more than the average teacher going through the Victorian Teachers College. I do not have the figures with me at the moment but I have an idea that the cost of teacher training is between one-half and one-third of the cost of ordinary professional training in the universities. I for one will support any steps that this Government takes to remove the bonding of teachers. As a professional group they are entitled to be trained, passed through the system and to go off to teach wherever opportunity or duty calls them. I would regard this step as a pretty important contribution to the professionalism of the Australian teaching services. 
There is another question I want to pose and to which we ought to turn our attention: Where are the teachers to come from? There is no doubt that there will be a demand for teachers far beyond the capacity of the secondary schools and far beyond the capacity of the universities to produce from the ordinary student body. It is time we turned our attention to the adults in the community who would like to enter the teaching service. I refer to the women in the community, in particular the married women. The statistics show that this is the largest and greatest area of intellectual wastage in the Australian community. The figures will probably show that there are 40,000 more young men in the Australian universities this year than there are young women. Yet young women have the same intellectual capacity, social characteristics and so on as their brothers. But they have been drop-outs, not because of any lack of intellectual capacity but simply because they happened to be women. They were preceded by similar generations of women who may well be 30 years or 40 years of age but who could well be offered university training at this stage. In a period of 5 years a woman now aged 30, wilh her leaving certificate or even her intermediate certificate, could become a qualified teacher with a Bachelor of Arts degree and a Diploma of Education and have perhaps 30 years professional opportunity before her. From an examination of the general situation (his seems to me to be the only area where there is a large number of people who could be recruited to the teaching services of Australia. 
Another question which should be raised is whether teachers colleges should be separate as institutions from universities. Honourable members will notice from the Schedule that 2 teachers colleges are associated geographically. I refer to those at La Trobe University and at Monash University. I am not sure of the technical relationship with the universities. Teaching is a demanding task. It is a profession which often takes people from school to the teachers college, to university, and then back into the school room. Teachers may well proceed through life never having done anything else. Of course teachers play their part in the community like anyone else, but in some ways I believe that teaching offers more threats of isolation from the general thread of the community and the intellectual stimulus that flows in other professions than are found in most other faculties. I am not sure that I approve as a general rule the isolation of teachers colleges into institutions as such. This is a matter of debate. I know that in some countries the authorities have expanded teachers colleges into independent institutions but I believe that the intellectual capacity of teachers and the stimulus that flows from association with other faculties would be of advantage to the education system. Whether all teachers should be from the university level was resolved in some countries long ago. 
I believe that the Commonwealth Government should assert itself more in these matters. Canberra is the place where we ought to be setting the standards. Canberra should have an independent education authority. This is the area where the Government could carry out experiments and adopt a progressive approach to many matters which would set the rest of the Australian educational systems moving. I support the Bill. Anything that the Commonwealth does in this area is gratefully received. As my friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  pointed out earlier, not so long ago it was regarded as a minor aberration if I spoke on education. It was regarded as one of the minor aberrations of a person who brought his professional pursuit into this chamber despite the constitutional aberrations that afflict this country. 
It is an instructive historical pursuit to look back at some of the speeches made by our former great national leader the right honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, and what he had to say about these things and then turn to the flowing eloquence of my friend the honourable member for Diamond Valley and the Minister for Education and Science. One notes that over 10 or 12 years honourable members opposite have progressed elaborately from being absolute State righters to almost dislocating their shoulders from patting themselves on the back for what they are doing for education. The Commonwealth Government has a long way to go before it satisfies the duty imposed on it by its great resources and financial capacity. I hope that in the future when I stand to speak and ask for co-operation from the Government side of the chamber I will receive it as in duty bound. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I will not take much time to deal with the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  who is trying to get a bit of a run in the Melbourne 'Herald', acting as its spokesman here. When the honourable member talks about freedom of speech, freedom for news media and freedom for instrumentalities, 1 suggest that he could well start with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The facts at issue are these: I read out here yesterday some figures from the gallup poll. They showed that in Victoria there was a 48.81% acceptance of the Labor Party and about a 32% or 33% acceptance for the Liberal Party. 
The Melbourne 'Herald' did not make this a major issue because it is a major political fact, whether the 'Herald' has published it in the past or not. I will leave it at that. If there were any errors in the figures that I read out yesterday, I will make the record straight when the Parliament resumes. But the facts are that the gallup poll shows, whatever the statistical measure was, a substantial swing to the ALP. This was ignored by the Melbourne Herald'. It is a major political fact, whether such facts are customarily printed or not by the 'Herald*. For this newspaper to ignore it was, I believe, to betray its duty as one of the great monopolistic newspapers in Australia. 
The honourable member may attack the other issues as he will. I turn to the question of the policy statement by the Leader of the Labor Party in Victoria. The Leader in Victoria, as is the tradition, announced the policy of the Labor Party. There was an expanded policy statement issued after his speech was delivered. The Leader decides the details of the policy for the time being. There was no dissension, as far as I could determine, inside the Labor movement in Victoria. It was a completely phoney war. Honourable members opposite can whistle as loudly as they like, but they will not be able to keep their courage up for much longer. 
The facts are that the honourable member for Deakin has deliberately misinterpreted Labor's policy in his speech this afternoon. He does not even understand it. So, how can he understand a democratic institution in which policies flow from branch to conference to the parliamentary party and to the executive. These things are under constant consideration. Yet the honourable member rises here and talks about freedom. 
Look at him. He, a rubber stamp for the Executive. He who speaks of freedom of speech and has voted for the gag every time it has been moved when he is here. The honourable member for Deakin who talks about the freedom of the individual acts as a rubber stamp for the tyrannical parliamentary executive without fail every time the gag has been put before the House. Fancy people like the honourable member talking about democracy. 
The facts are that the Melbourne 'Herald' is one of the world's great monopolistic newspaper combines. It is also, in general, one of Australia's best newspapers. It has a duty beyond its political bias to give the facts - all the facts - particularly at times of elections in a democracy. That is why I challenge it. 
I mention one other issue: The Melbourne 'Herald' said last night - I have not had time to respond to it yet - that it always has treated me fairly. This newspaper runs a television station in Melbourne. During the last Federal election, it invited two of my apponents to be guests on its 'Meet The Press' programme for half an hour on the last Sunday before the election was held. I was not invited to participate. A half an hour was spent trying to denigrate the honourable member for Wills - a totally fruitless operation, of course. On the next day, the Melbourne Sun-Pictorial' produced the remarks of those candidates but made no reference to me. If that is the attitude of that organisation to fairness, I will have none of it. I do not like the honourable member for Deakin. I do not care if the newspaper prints half a million copies each day. I do not care whether it is one of the largest journalistic concerns in Australia. It will not silence me and it will not turn me into a newspaper stooge like the honourable member for Deakin. 
Motion (by  Mr Hughes)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 4 p.m. until Tuesday, 2 June, at 2 p.m. 
I address my question to the Minister for External Affairs. Is it a fact that there are some 12,000 to 15,000 Russian troops in Egypt? What steps has he taken through international agencies to require Russia to withdraw these troops? Is the Government honestly neutral in the crisis in the Middle East  or is it  giving a measure of support to the Arab nations? If it is neutral, why has it been silent on the presence of Russian troops in Egypt? Why does it permit Australia's international airline, Qantas, to land in Arab countries but not in Israel? Is Qantas being prevented from landing in Israel by the threat of economic reprisals by Arab countries? 
Three thousand million people in the world and we have to draw the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  It is the astonishing conceit of honourable members opposite that they think they are the only ones who can speak for the farmer; the only people who are concerned with wheat. 1 represent 120,000 people. True they live in only 11 square miles. True they rally there so that they can get decent representation. It is also true that the honourable member for Mallee and his farming fraternity could not survive for 1 week without the work, research and skills of the people who make up the industrial areas of Australia. They are the people who carry the wheat to market, the people who conduct research, the people who mill the wheat into flour, the people who load it onto the ships - the people about whom the honourable member for Mallee is continually abusive. They are the people who buy the flour and eat it. 
Who speaks for the wheat farmers in this House? The old worn out auctioneer. the storekeeper from indi, the lawyer from New England, the political chameleon from Kennedy, who has been a member of every political party. Who is the Minister for Primary Industry? He is a retired banana bender from Richmond. No wonder the Country Party cannot find any answers to our questions. I have listened to the debate this afternoon and follow similar debates year after year and nol one answer have we had from the Country Party, lt is no longer relevant to the Australian political scene as it applies to primary industry. I stand here briefly tonight to record in Hansard the fact that nol one answer has come from the total membership of the Country Party today. 'I Throughout the afternoon they were consumed with mistrust of the Labor Party and spent their lime denigrating the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Nol one answer have we found in their speeches. We have just listened for 30 minutes to a catalogue of cliches from the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  We heard the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  a man who came in to this place with a fanfare of trumpets, with a high position in the Country Party but wilh a very small majority. Not one thing did he have to offer. That has been the pattern of the speeches of Country Party members. Very few people on this side of the House have participated in this debate because we admit that it is not our principal interest, concerned as we are with the economics of Australia. Il is from people such as members of the Country Part&gt; thai we ask for answers. This evening we have listened in vain for them. 
Tonight a thousand million people in various parts of the world will go to bed hungry. Tonight we have heard people in one of the wealthiest countries talking about the over-production of wheat and not one answer have they attempted to find or pose. I do not think they are even aware of the problem. This evening we witnessed another act of great disgrace. There is a terrible tragedy being enacted in South America. The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  came into this House and told us that we have $15,000 to spend for 30,000 lives. Yet, we have hundreds of millions of bushels of wheal with which we do not know what to du, and not one member of the Country Party poses an answer. I hope that the people of Australia will note the simple fact that with people going to bed hungry all over the world and hundreds of thousands suffering, homeless and starving across the Pacific, not one of the members of th Country Party thought that Australia ought to find an economic answer. All they arc worried about is over-production. The lack of drive and dynamics in the way that honourable members opposite have approached this matter will cripple the wheat industry, lt is not that the world has too much wheat but that honourable members of the Country Party have not enough notts to find the answer. 
All I want to do is ask the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who is at the table, what steps the Government has taken over recent years to get universal adherence to this international agreement. Since the 1 880s we have bad universal agreements covering various matters. The universal agreement covering the Post Office is one to which everyone has agreed and adhered. I recall writing in 1966 to a man in Hanoi. He got the letter and I eventually got my answer. 
It was the British Consul-General I was writing to, I explain for the benefit of the -honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  who may not know where Hanoi is, being interested, as all young Liberals are, in keeping as far away from Vietnam as possible. 
The international air travel system is one of the world's greatest areas of co-operation. If a person buys a through ticket from Qantas Airways Ltd, the Australian international airline, he can use it on any airline in any country. Yet when we come to something which I believe is vital to the safety of the international air system we allow it to drift on, with only a handful of adherents to the treaty governing it. The treaty has been honoured more in the breach than in the observance. It would seem to me that until we have universal acceptance of that treaty and an absolute guarantee that the person who hijacks an aeroplane will be immediately arrested on land and returned to the country from which he came, we will get nowhere. ] think that would be the only way in which to deal with the hijacker. 1 want to know what this country, which is one of the world's leading international airline operators, has done to bring about universal adherence to the treaty - or should I have given you notice of the question,  Mr Minister? 
During the course of the second reading debate the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said that he could not answer our questions because there were too many of them on the notice paper. Only 32 questions appear on tha notice paper and the Treasurer has had 34 days in which to answer them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
It is obvious that on both sides of the House we are basically in agreement about the proposal for the need, firstly, to overhaul the whole situation, and secondly, to remove the unnecessary complications in the legislation. My colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  put this question on the notice paper some 3 weeks ago: 
Did the Commonwealth Actuary in his report covering the investigation of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund over the period 1959-64, presented to the House on 29 May 1968, indicate that certain statistical and technical data were not available to enable him to calculate suitable rates of contribution and that the absence of information made it difficult to verify the accuracy of data supplied to him. 
Why, may I ask, as a parliamentarian and on behalf of the people who are contributors to this Fund, has the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  not been able to answer that question in 18 days? The Treasurer has a tremendous staff at his disposal. I see that he has some 40 or 50 second division officers and thousands of other officers scattered throughout his Department. Yet he cannot answer that question or even care enough about the matter to listen to the question in this House. The question on the notice paper continues: 
If so, what action has since been taken to rectify this deficiency. 
How long should it take to answer that question? The question continues: 
Was an internal auditor added to the staff of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board; if so, when. 
This question appears on the notice paper at page 2229. lt has been on the notice paper for 18 days. 1 believe it is time the Treasurer got around to answering it. Therefore I ask that question as a member of this Parliament on behalf of the contributors. lt is time we investigated the whole system and examined it, by use of a committee of this Parliament, in the light of the experience gained in the last 20 years. The Parliament has plenty of experienced people in it - folk who know a good deal about the system in the Services; people with access to information about, all sorts of funds. The history of this legislation is what one might term 'hopes dismayed'. When one looks at the table in front of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act one finds that there have been 22 attempts to amend it in recent years. There have been 22 amendments since it was brought in in 1948. Continual tinkering with an Act produces no satisfactory result. The vintage year was 1968 when there were 3 amendments. Parliament must give up tinkering in this way and get down to some steady principles. I hope enough honourable members on the Government side of the House will support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  so that we can carry it and get on with our job as parliamentarians and take a good look at the situation. 
We of the Opposition believe that the Act is unduly complex. We believe it has failed to keep up with salaries and wages. We believe that the soldier is in a different position from the rest of the community. In many ways the analogy of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and the Public Service Superannuation Fund is irrelevant. We say that this legislation does more for the people on the high salaries than for those on the lower salaries. There are large amounts in this Fund. Are they adequately invested? Are the people who invest in the Fund receiving a satisfactory return? We believe it is vital for a successful Service that people should have the security that flows from a successfully operating fund. 1 shall remind honourable members of the complications of the Act. I am not the only person who believes this is so. There was an article in the journal 'Army', published on 27th February last year, which was written by the Adjutant-General, Major-General Long. He had this to say: 
Probably no condition of service has been more heartily condemned from time  to  time than the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme. 
That is what a Major-General of the Australian Army said in this journal. He continued: 
I believe this has occurred mainly because the major provisions regarding benefits have nol been publicised adequately in the past; 
That would be true enough:  the Acts arc hard to read and understand; and the arrangements for those who entered the Scheme prior to December 1959 can be complicated in individual cases. 
I suggest that honourable members read that article. Major-General Long discussed how the scheme works and the basic principles of it. He claimed it was a good scheme. I think it is like many things in the Repatriation Act and so on - it is good for those who get completely under the umbrella. But the people on the fringe always are going to suffer. As for the undue complexity of the Act, consider this beautiful contribution to Australian political thought. I refer to section 30 of the Act which sets out the formula for working out contributions to the scheme. It is as follows:  i  [+«(»-*) +  n 
Then it goes on to describe what A, B, C and D are. It is there for anyone to read. How can the average Australian soldier, who I believe is entitled to know both his commitment and his entitlement, work that out? Of course, if he is good enough he can turn to section 41 (3.) and he can find out. It is clear enough there if he has a slide rule and his lexicon of the English language. It states: 
Subject  to  this Act, the rate  at  which pension is payable  to  a member under this section is an amount per annum ascertained  by  multiplying the amount of Ninety-one dollars by the number that is his category number on the date of his retirement and, except where he has completed forty years' service for pension, multiplying the result by the factor set out in the third column of the Second Schedule opposite to the number of years set out in the second column of that Schedule that is the number of years of service for pension completed by him. 
It is simple enough. I have no doubt it was simple enough to the actuarial people who worked it out. lt is probably simple enough to the Treasurer although he has never shown any interest at all in the Fund. 1 believe it is time that the Fund and its operations were transferred- 
Oh, the Treasurer has awakened. I was pointing out to him a few moments ago that there has been a simple question about the Fund on the notice paper for 18 days and he has not answered it. 
The Treasurer really does not need to answer the question. If the complications of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act are beyond him I gather from the report of the Public Service Board that the Department of the Treasury has adequate staff to handle such a matter. The Department has 1 First Division officer. 28 Second Division "officers, 947 Third Division officers and 1,169 Fourth Division officers. All those officers are in the departmental section. In the Statistician's Branch he has 16 in the Second Division and so on. If the Treasurer cannot handle the Fund - and I do not blame him - at least he ought to be able to answer a parliamentary question on the facts of a matter such as this after 18 days. But that is by the way. 
We have to look at this Act in a completely different way. The serviceman when he enlists accepts a duty to the community which is in no way comparable to the kind of duty accepted by anyone else in the community, even excluding the police forces and such other services. The serviceman lays his life, his future, his health and welfare on the line. It may well be that in 999 cases out of 1,000 he will never be called upon - one hopes he will never be called upon - to make any sacrifice of that nature. Of course the fact is that particularly in the Army these days there are chances which can be worked out statistically as to whether he will be killed maimed or injured. But his is a total, absolute and unqualified commitment to the community. I believe that we have to apply a different set of values to that kind of commitment - it is our duty and our obligation - from that which we apply to people who work inside the standard Public Service. If a citizen accepts a total and absolute commitment to the community then the community has to accept a total and absolute commitment in return. Therefore in many respects actuarial considerations are invalid. But even on the actuarial considerations I do not believe we give the serviceman the same deal that we give to the rest of the community so far as superannuation funds are concerned. 
Other matters arise from time to time. For instance a person can lose all entitlement because of a serious breach in regard to his service. He may desert or be absent without leave. Honourable members may say that that is fair enough but of course he may well have a wife and family who are entitled to some kind of protection. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  pointed out the difficulties of people who retire from the Service even after great, lengthy and distinguished service and fail to get any pension unless they get special dispensation. Then there was a case, one of which came to my notice - I understand the system still prevails - of the person invalided out of the Service and placed on a pension. The person of whom I speak went out of the Air Force and received a pension. After 7 or 8 years, or a little less, he was declared fit.  His  pension immediately ceased. One Monday he received a notice saying that as from such and such a day his pension ceased. So, being fit and being of the age group he reported back to the Service but the authorities would not take him. What kind of a commitment is that on the part of the armed Services or anybody else? I do not believe that that kind of anomaly ought to be tolerated. 
The Fund has not kept up with the demands for increases in salaries and wages. There has been a decrease in money values for people in receipt of pensions if they have been out for a few years. Of course this Fund is much like other superannuation and pension funds - it takes 5 or 6 years for things to catch up. 
The other point 1 would like to make is that Service rates of pay are inadequate. Recently the average wage or income of the community was stated to be $60 or $70 a week. 1 find it difficult to believe, but the Statistician can produce figures to prove this. Let us look at pay scales for the defence forces and see how many servicemen are on that kind of salary scale. There are not many receiving such a wage. In a modem world we cannot run armies in this way. One of the reasons that the Government has had to inflict the national service system on us is its failure to make service in the armed forces attractive and secure, and profitable at the conclusion of that service. I hope honourable members will note that. 
There is one other point I would like to make, and that is that in fact the serviceman has perhaps a little less opportunity than have people in the Public Service at the same level to reach the top. The Australian Services are pretty meagre in the way they hand out top ranks. I understand that in Britain the Director of Military Training is a lieutenant-general; in Australia he is a brigadier. The Director of Staff Duties is a major-general; ours is probably a brigadier. I am subject to some correction on these. The Director of the Royal Artillery is a lieutenant-general; ours is a brigadier. The Engineer in Chief is a major-general or lieutenant-general; ours again is a brigadier. So on the whole servicemen in Australia do not have the opportunities to reach the topmost ranks that apply in other Services around the world. This of course affects the pension available to them at the conclusion of their service. 
The other point I would like to make is that in the Army, for instance, there are 38 people of general rank - lieutenantgeneral, major-general and brigadier - for a Service of 48,000 men. The question may be asked: What is the difference between soldiers and other people in the service? The Department of Works, for instance, has 47 people in the Second Division with a staff of some 6,000. Honourable members can see that this comparison is very relevant. So the serviceman is receiving a lower rate of pay having regard to the general standards in the community. Top servicemen on an average do not quite reach the same status and pay as the top people in the Commonwealth Public  Service do. Their Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund does not operate with the same security as the Superannuation Fund. I can think of no reason at all why we should not have a simple schedule of contributions and payments out such as one finds in the appendices to the Superannuation Act. [ remind honourable members that this Fund has been afflicted not only with a search after amendments but also an  administrative complacency which has dogged it down the years. The second report produced in 1950 stated: 
The requirements of the legislation have continued to be met and, by the end of the period under review, the problems associated with the introduction of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme, including those associated with the transfer of contributors from the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund, had been largely overcome. 
That is a monumental contribution to administrative complacency. For 20 years there has been no evidence that the problems have been overcome. Therefore I call upon the honourable members of this House to support the proposal for the appointment of a select committee to examine it. A week or so back when we were discussing  this subject, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  thought that select committees were preferable to standing committees. He will have his chance to vote on the subject later this evening. 
I want to make my peace with the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  On 22nd May he had a few words to say about me which, of course, were in serious error. But I am reported on page 2687 of Hansard as having said: 
I do not like the honourable member for Deakin. 
That would not be the way I would have put it. I would have said: T do not, like the honourable member for Deakin, care if the newspaper prints half a million copies each day.' We were talking about the Melbourne 'Herald'. I want to make it quite clear that the statement '1 do not like the honourable member for Deakin' is quite wrong. As a Socialist I love everybody. It just happens that there are a lot of people who need correction. As far as the honourable member for Deakin is concerned, I like him all right but I do not like him being the member for Deakin. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.10 a.m. (Wednesday) 
 In supporting the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  I would point out that it is now 228 days, or thereabouts, since the Federal election. We have met in this Parliament for 35 of them. Yet the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  who is the Leader of this House, comes in here weeping tears about the failure to pass legislation. Never could a government have been more dilatory than this one has been in its approach to this Parliament. The effort to pass some of the legislation which is before us is making a mockery of the institution. Are the les sons of early April so easily forgotten? Is it a fact that the whole community supported the Labor Party at that time in its denunciation of the effort of the Government to use this Parliament simply as a rubber stamp for the Executive? Of course it is. Was there not a change of heart by the Ministry itself? Of course there was. Is it not clear that everybody in this House likes to discuss matters as fully as required? I believe that we have to so organise the affairs of this Parliament that every one of the 125 members has an equal opportunity to debate any issue. I know that there are those who say: 'This has been going on for long enough. We have heard enough.' I think apart from actually hearing one's own viewpoint put in the chamber, various groups in the community are entitled to expect their representative to stand up and speak about the legislation under consideration. For instance, on the matter of migrant education, which will come before us shortly, I think it will be incumbent upon every honourable member who represents those people in this place to say something about the subject to show that he is giving it consideration. 
Let me refer to this question of inconvenience to the staff. This is hypocrisy, if that is not unparliamentary. Let me put it this way: When will the members of the staff be more inconvenienced? Will they be more inconvenienced late at night, at 3 o'clock for the next 2 or 3 nights, or when they go off the payroll because the Parliament is not meeting over the next few weeks? What about the dining room staff? I believe the way we treated them over the last few weeks was an inconvenience, a discourtesy and inconsiderate behaviour beyond belief. No-one knows what time a sitting will finish. Then there are the people in the car pool. Fancy the Minister weeping about the inconvenience caused to people if we meet here. That is what the place is about. As far as I am concerned the Parliament should stay in session. I believe that the Government is retreating into recess because every hour it meets here it is under more constant fire and under more constant tension. But that is not what Parliament is about. Although it is desirable that the Opposition should try to reduce the Government, it is still more useful as a democratic exercise that matters should be discussed. 
There has been a statement by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  on the notice paper since 16th April. When will we get around to that? When will we have an opportunity to discuss the miserable contribution made by the Government to the people of Peru? When will we talk about the notice of motion which is before us from the Minister for External Affairs about the guaranteed neutrality of Cambodia? When will we discuss the appointment of a select committee, which was promised yesterday, to inquire into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund? When will we discuss the Standing Orders report which is now on the notice paper? How are we to consider these matters properly? The thing that baffles me about all this is that alt we need is for half a dozen of the honourable members opposite who are always broken hearted and grumble and grieve about the late hour, to show enough strength of character and independence of spirit to stay out of the vote. But they do not do it. 
There is talk about machine politics in this country. There has never been any political group more easily mechanised than the Liberal-Country Party coalition. It is Australia's first automated political group. One has only to work out whether it is run by transistors or clockwork. I would say from the attitudes it adopts that it would be as ancient as clockwork itself. All we ask is that honourable members opposite should show some sort of strength of character and refuse to let the Government treat the Parliament in this manner. 
Get back on to the Bill. 
This Bill makes provision for certain monies to be made available by the Government for research and promotion and takes off some of the burden now being applied to the industry in these two areas. The Government has made possible assistance to these areas to a maximum of $27m a year. When mentioning research and promotion may I say firstly in relation to research that it is noted that a Minister of the Crown in this case will have more say on how these monies will be spent. In fact, I think the Bill spells out as to where these monies will be spent or who will spend them in relation to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. I would perhaps go a little further and say that there should be a closer look not only at who spends their monies but how they are spent. I do not know whether the Minister of the day in fact has in mind the need to study very closely and precisely how the research monies will in fact be spent and where they will be spent. 1 believe that such a study is important. 
I would now like to say something about promotion. Of course, we have seen millions of dollars of the wool growers' money as well as other money spent over the years on the promotion of the end product. This promotion, as good and as expensive as it may have been, may have assisted the wool industry in many ways. However, it is quite obvious from the returns now being received and the position the wool growers find themselves in, that from the point of view of economics this promotion has not assisted the wool industry as such. As I have said, promotion cannot be used effectively until such time as the other leg is put in order. I refer here to the marketing leg. However, the establishment of marketing arrangements has been refused by the growers on two occasions since 1951. Altogether, this has not been the fault of the wool growers themselves. They have been confused by outside interests. I would go as far as to say that these interests are not only in Australia but are also overseas interests. Each time a proposition has been put to the wool growers no-one really knows how much money has been spent on propaganda against such organised marketing. However, this has been a tremendous figure. On each occasion the wool growers have been talked out of the proposal and confused. 1 sincerely hope that the latest move by the wool growers will not have the same result as it has had in the past. The wool industry has been asked by tens of thousands of growers all over Australia for a single wool selling authority. We have already seen some lobbying and some pressures which have been brought about to try to upset this scheme. It is an absolute tragedy that the wool industry today should find itself in this position. 
One only had to listen to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  for 5 minutes to learn that this is not the time to be debating anything. He was talking about the failure of the Labor Party to support the idea of a referendum on wool and sheep, yet he has no hesitation whatsoever in taking young Australians off to Vietnam. 
Before I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National . Service may I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on the clemency and understanding that you showed in a very difficult situation yesterday. It was a good deed in a naughty world. I hope that no further incidents of that nature occur. I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is he aware of the rising resentment amongst the staff of Parliament House at all levels at the callous disregard of their personal welfare shown by his handling of the hours of meeting? Is he aware that many of the staff in the refreshment rooms have reached a stage of absolute exhaustion and that demands are being imposed on all staff in Parliament House which would not be tolerated in any industrial establishment? Would the Minister agree that the Parliament is served by a staff unsurpassed for devotion to duty and unfailing courtesy to all concerned? Is he aware that he has damaged the morale of the people upon whom Parliament depends for its effective functioning, and that industrial action could be taken to right their grievances? How does he equate bis disregard for the employees of this institution with his duty as Minister for Labour and National Service, to see that other employers abide by the spirit of modern industrial practice? Before the Parliament resumes for the next period of sitting, will he confer with representatives of the staff at all levels, high and low, as well as the Joint House Department and the Joint House Committee and adopt working hours showing some common sense instead of the staggering incompetence which has been demonstrated over the past few weeks? 
I rise to allow the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to proceed. 
I take it that most honourable members on the other side will vote against the amendment. They have no understanding of what it involves. They are following the traditional habit of their Parties in pressing legislation through this place. The question of costs in industrial legislation is of vital importance, particularly to many small unions. Quite a number of unions have only 2,000 or 3,000 members, each of whom pays $5 or $10 a year in fees. After these unions maintain an office they reach the stage where it is impossible for them to go to court secure in the knowledge that they will have enough money to pay costs or to comply with any other sanctions imposed on them. I protest in this Parliament against the manner in which the Government is treating the unions. In all the years that I have been here, I have seen few more miserable performances. 
It concerns the question of costs. Surely I am discussing the question before the Parliament. One might ask whether the Parliament is giving it serious consideration and whether it is being carried by the appropriate numbers. The Committee is dealing with a matter of substantial social importance, one that has given rise to many difficulties in recent times, and I submit that it is deserving of proper consideration. I put on record that this is a most miserable performance on the part of the Government Parties. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Clyde Cameron's)  be agreed to. 
As a member of the Standing Orders Committee which brought down this recommendation 1 want to make sure that honourable members have their arithmetic correct. I wish to point out that the Standing Orders Committee examined this proposal for some time. I am in sympathy with those honourable members who would like the sitting to be on the basis of a regular 4 days a week so that they can put aside a particular day in order to do whatever it is they wish to do in their electorates for their constituents, but the fact is that there are members of this Parliament who come from places such as Alice Springs, Broken Hill and Bunbury whose activities we are in duty bound to consider. Those honourable members who live, say, 150 or 200 miles away from an airport are also in a particularly difficult position. The Committee has recommended that the 4 days be dovetailed, if that is the correct term, at each 
My suggestion - I hope it will be written into the Standing Orders - is that the 2 sessional periods should commence every year during a particular week in, say, February and August. I believe that the House should sit during February, March, April and May and then again during August, September, October and November. In this way the House could easily sit on 96 to 100 days, or even more if necessary, and all honourable members would know where they stood. It seems to me that the great penalty which we inflict upon each other is that the eccentric nature of sittings means one cannot plan to do anything in particular. I believe that this is the important issue which is before us. The other point I wish to make is that my experience in this place is that the present idea of a 2i-day week results in a continual disintegration of one's life. At present we are not remaining in this chamber for a long enough period to complete some matters. We manage to get a debate launched in some way only to find that on Thursday evening we are banished until the following Tuesday. A 4-day sitting week would give us much greater continuity of work. Therefore I appeal to honourable members to support the proposition which is before the House. I believe it will assist in the working of the Parliament. I hope it will make life a little more comfortable for those honourable members who have to travel long distances, regardless of whether they do so by aeroplane or some other means. 
I ask the Minister for External Affairs whether foreign forces are operating illegally in Cambodia? If so, what new steps is the Government taking to protect the Cambodian people from involvement in the war in Vietnam? Why does the Government hold to one principle in Vietnam and a different one in Cambodia? 
I hope that the House will not endorse a reduction in the quorum. I believe that we have to ask ourselves what the quorum is about. We have to ask ourselves what its significance or symbolic value might be. Then we have to ask ourselves what we are doing here anyhow. The present quorum is one-third of the total members of the House, which makes the quorum 42 or 43. This is small enough in a House of 125 members. It may be that members opposite and members generally will say: 'Yes, but you call a quorum in the middle of somebody's speech and you are using this procedure as nuisance value'. It is true that on occasions members on this side have felt that this is a means of retaliation and the only protection we have. But that is not the issue tonight: It is the kind of symbolic value we give to the deliberations of this Parliament. If we reduce the quorum to one-fifth of the 125 members of this House the quorum will be 25 members. I believe that, if we adopted this proposal we would be casting a vote of no confidence in the value of our own deliberations. 
How can we, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said earlier, justify having a system in which legislation could pass the House with only 25 members present, 13 voting for it and 12 against it? Members may say that this will not occur. The assumptions that these things will not occur have been made in so many democratic institutions which in the end have seen their demise because people have said: 'It cannot happen here'. Frankly, I ask myself why there should be a quorum for the passage of legislation. Why should not everybody be present on that particular day or an absolute minimum number present, that number being somewhere near the maximum number of members of the Parliament? 
Members are sent here to deliberate on the affairs of the nation. Every one of us is a full time member. It is true that there is probably a larger attendance in this Parliament than there is in most other parliaments. I am not persuaded at all by the instances of other parliaments. I do not care what quorums are provided in the Parliaments of India, Ceylon, New Zealand or Tasmania. This is something we have to determine for ourselves. We must evaluate our own work. 1 believe that a reduction in the quorum for the pure symbolic value of the act is a vote of no confidence in ourselves, in our deliberations, in the value of debate and in the importance of what we decide. We must not tolerate a reduction in the quorum. What is the mystical value of it, I wonder? In any other group we ask: What number of people are we prepared to tolerate as making a decision for us when we cannot turn up?' If it is the local cricket club or a board of directors we say: There are 15 of us here. How many am I prepared to let make a decision representing the decision of all of us?' Currently in most places people are inclined to say onethird of the members. 
There are some things that require unanimity and there are some things that require an absolute majority, but we are deliberating on the kind of values we are to impose on the legislation passed by this Parliament. Frankly I do not see how we can justify a piece of legislation as being the law of Australia if it is passed by only 45 people being present, 25 for it and 20 against it, or some such figures. 1 do not believe that that is law. I do not believe that it is legal. I do not believe that it is ethical. We ought to impose much higher demands upon ourselves when it comes to contentious legislation. 
Just prior to the last recess the voting on very controversial and important legislation was of such an order that I believe it had no right to pass into law. What we have done, of course, is to allow the party system to prevail over the common sense, ethics or legality of representative government. Therefore 1 hope that the House will not reduce the quorum. This proposal has come up because people have on occasions - and 1 am one who would plead guilty to this - called a quorum to bring members into the House when something is being discussed or when somebody is doing something to which one objects. That is a misfortune imposed upon us by the manner in which deliberations of the House are conducted. 
Earlier the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said that we cannot anticipate what is happening. That is true enough. I have paid fairly close attention to the deliberations of this Parliament, particularly with respect to anything that has to do with the Parliament itself. I sat here most of this afternoon and most of yesterday when this motion was being discussed. We are to have a free vote on this matter in which everybody is interested. Usually when the bells are rung members arrive and ask: 'Which way do I vote', if they do not know what the subject is. This afternoon one matter was passed by the Parliament and those who had shown a close interest in it happened to be absent from the chamber for 3 or 4 minutes. That is no way to conduct the affairs of the Parliament or of the nation. I suppose I should come in when the bells start to ring and sit here until the matter under discussion is decided. That is fair enough, but nobody does that. No member is able to, in fact. The point is that we have no machinery for letting members know exactly what is happening in the chamber if they are elsewhere in the House. The House of Commons introduced a system almost a century ago - a ticker system on the walls - which indicated who was speaking and on what subject. It indicated also which matters were to be considered. It is time that we considered such a system. 
It is true that in this House fewer members sit here all day or every day during discussions than in most other places, but there are many reasons for this. We are isolated from our communities. We have inadequate services and we cannot leave it to somebody else to collect all our messages and make our telephone calls. The general structure of the House itself is not comfortable. No-one can say that these benches were designed for people to sit at and work, as I should like to do. Last year I watched the New Zealand Parliament in session. Nearly all members remained in the chamber all the time. They had adequate facilities for their papers and they could work comfortably. The seats could be arranged more comfortably. These are matters to which we should turn our attention. 
I am not saying that it is our duty to sit here all day listening to what is going on, but it is reasonable to expect a fair proportion of the members to be in the chamber when something is being deliberated; firstly, as a courtesy to the people who send us here and, secondly, as a courtesy to the members who speak. 
Presently the bells will be rung ami we will vote on this motion, but I propose to oppose this provision. I was a member of the Standing Orders Committee but after having given this matter further consideration I intend to oppose a reduction in the quorum. A number of members will come into the chamber not knowing what they are to vote on but on this occasion they have to make up their own minds, lt is no good in this instance looking to see which way the party leaders are voting. Members have to make up their own minds. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is listening carefully and I know it is doing him good. 
That is right. Nobody is a totally lost cause. What is a quorum? The dictionary tells me that it is the minimum number of persons required to be present at a meeting of a legislative or deliberative body before business can be validly transacted. Is anybody prepared to stand up in the Australian Parliament and say that 25 members of this House - that is one-fifth of the 125 members - can pass valid legislation? I hope the House will reject the proposal, not for the retaliatory measures that it may produce on various occasions, but simply because I believe that if we reduce the quorum to that insignificant number we may as well have no quorum at all. A reduction in the quorum would be a vote of no confidence in the deliberations of this Parliament. 
I move: 
That a new standing order 29a be inserted, viz: 29a  -  (a) The following standing committees shall be appointed as early as possible after the adoption of this standing order and at the commencement of each subsequent Parliament: 
The Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence; 
The Standing Committee on Finance and Trade; 
The Standing Committee on Health and Welfare; 
The Standing Committee on Primary Industry and National Development; 
The Standing Committee on Transport and Communications; 
The Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts; and 
The Standing Committee on Legal, Home and Internal Territory Affairs. to which the House may refer, on motion, for inquiry and report, any Bill, motion, vote or expenditure, message, petition, report or other matter which has come before the House or any other matter coming within the field of Commonwealth Government responsibility. 
Each committee shall consist of a Chairman, appointed by the Prime Minister, and a nucleus of eleven Members, six to be appointed by the Prime Minister and five to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
By agreement between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, up to six additional Members may, having regard to their special knowledge and qualifications, be appointed to a committee during the consideration of a particular matter. 
Every appointment of a member of a committee shall be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
The  Chairman  shall have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of votes, also have a casting vote. 
The  Chairman  of a committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to bc  Deputy Chairman,  and the member so appointed shall act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
In a committee appointed under this standing order, five shall form a quorum, unless otherwise ordered. 
Each committee shall have power  to  appoint sub-committees consisting of three or more of its members; and to refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. The quorum of a subcommittee shall be a majority of the members appointed to the sub-committee. 
Each committee, or any sub-committee, shall have power to send for person (excepting Ministers of State), papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess of the Parliament. 
Each committee shall have leave to report from time to time its proceedings with or without the evidence, or the evidence only. 
Except where otherwise provided in this standing order, the standing orders relating to select committees shall apply to a committee appointed under this standing order. 
I want to place before the House a proposition that we establish a system of standing committees in line with the procedures that have been outlined and circulated to the Parliament. 1 believe that this would be a most important addition to the procedures of the House. It would be, perhaps, almost a revolution in the procedures of this Parliament. Arguments on this matter have been advanced for many years but I want to put before the House the reasons why 1 think it essential that at this stage in the parliamentary history of this country we should make a change towards greater parliamentary participation in the management of the nation. I do not believe that elections or the Parliament itself are concerned merely with the selection of an executive. They are not to be regarded as an exercise to find somebody who can press buttons and have action taken. In Australia there is no shortage of action. We have a very efficient Public Service. We have an administrative system right throughout the continent which can produce results whenever it is so desired. It is not a question of executive action that I believe needs to come under scrutiny at this time but the question of parliamentary participation and public participation. In general, we need a scrutiny of power rather than the exercise of power. 
Honourable members may look at this amendment and say that they prefer select committees to standing committees but I do not believe that the definition of the subject is important. I believe that what we have to do is to get the maximum parliamentary participation in the work of the nation. It is not exactly a consideration of executive authority which will be the basis of the work of the committees, as I see it. The opportunity has occurred, as a result of the work of the Standing Orders Committee, to place this matter before the Parliament and the further opportunity has occurred because of the agreement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  - almost his initiative, I would say - for questions associated with the Parliament to be decided by members by a free vote. I hope that members of Parliament will consider these issues as parliamentarians and not as Party members. 
I agree that this is perhaps a change of some magnitude in the procedures of the Parliament and that perhaps it should not be entered upon lightly, but I believe also that the proposition contains no real dangers to the parliamentary institution. We will still meet here, the 125 of us, and there will still be the votes and decisions that have to be taken in this place. The motion is to establish 7 standing committees. A schedule of the duties of the committees has been circulated to honourable members and I do not propose to read them out. lt might be said that this is the first thought about the way in which we would divide the functions of this country. We have first to consider the magnitude of the administration of a country such as ours. The 12 million people involve all sorts of social, financial, political and other complex activities. Parliament itself is responsible for the management of a Public Service of well over 100.000 full time public servants. lt is responsible for the administration of 30 to 35 major Commonwealth departments. There is a large number of statutory organisations of great magnitude. Some of them appear as minor matters in the Estimates. One with which I am associated, the National Library of Australia, is responsible for the employment of hundreds and the expenditure of millions. There are some areas of the Estimates where just one line involves millions of dollars and thousands of people. So the following divisions are suggested: A standing committee on foreign affairs and defence, a standing committee on finance and trade, a standing committee on health and welfare, a standing committee on primary industry and national development, a standing committee on transport and communications, a standing committee on education, science and the arts, and a standing committee on legal, home and internal territory affairs. 1 have no doubt that other honourable members could think of other ways in which this could he organised but 1 believe that in the first instance it would be worthwhile to launch the project in these terms. The motion is designed to give the greatest possible flexibility to the membership of the committees. In the first instance each committee will have a  chairman  and a nucleus of 1 1 members, but there will be room to appoint 6 other members if this motion is carried. Paragraph (c) of the proposed new standing order 29A reads: 
By agreement between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, up to 6 additional members may. having regard to their special knowledge and qualifications, be appointed to a committee during the consideration of a particular matter. 
The object of this proposal is to give the greatest possible flexibility to the work and membership of the committees. I believe it is fatal to the workings of an institution such as ours to have to make decisions about such a matter at  a  fixed lime and that because somebody is not appointed to a committee on a certain date his expertise and his capacity are lost lo that committee. I put thai point before honourable members so they can sec that we are attempting to design a flexible system under which members of the Parliament may participate in the deliberations of the nation to the greatest possible extent. 
Of course, the object of these committees in the. first instance will be to examine the work of the nation and the legislation before the Parliament. We will be beginning a system which has already worked successfully in various ways in other countries. We are stepping into  a  new era. For various reasons, some of them historical and some of them deriving from the exceptionally partisan nature of our politics. I think it is fair to say that our political structure is certainly much more partisan over large areas than in the United States of America and. I believe, in Canada, and even in the United Kingdom and New Zealand. Because of this characteristic our tendency has been to polarise everything in a party area. 
In my experience of the committees with which I have been associated I have found allies right across the board. Some years ago with members of all parties I sat on the Select Committee into Grievances of Yirrkala Aborigines. Arnhem Land Reserve. This was a most rewarding experience because, when it comes to the general human values which one is required to examine. 1 am able to arrive at the same basic conclusions as my friends opposite. This is the case with much of the legislation that comes before us here, lt is true that a large amount of the legislation that passes through this Parliament is not of  a  controversial nature and does not cause any great difference of opinion. Many Bills, motions and resolutions are passed without dissent. Therefore we accept the view that we are in agreement on so many things. That is why I took this opportunity to bring this motion forward. We ought to capitalise the consensus in the Parliament rather than polarise the dissent. 1 believe this is what a committee system can do. When honourable members sit round a table and consider a matter in detail, getting down to the bones of it so that they can see where the good lies and where the wrongs are, they find that over large areas of social enterprise there are not many great differences between those of us who are regarded as being on the left and those who are regarded as being on the right. This is the opportunity that a committee system would give. 
Our Parliament has certain characteristics which are not familiar to other people round the world. As I pointed out. it is partisan and is likely to polarise dissent rather than capitalise consensus. This is partly because the nation is as it is and partly because, relatively, we have looked upon ourselves as a small assemblage. An assemblage of 125 people is not a small assemblage at all. Even in the days when 70, 72 or 73 members were meeting here it. was still a fairly large public meeting. So the democratic need for open discussion and exchange of views is almost impossible to achieve. 1 believe that democracy faces a very important challenge at this time. Tn the world at large there are very few totally democratic communities. I have made many speeches to show that there are large areas of undemocratic practice in this community. I do not propose to expound on that today. I believe that at this time the world needs examples of democratic political co-operation. 
Sitting suspended front 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I had moved a motion for the establishment of a standing committee system. The motion has been circulated and most honourable members are familiar with its contents. J was outlining the reasons as I saw them for the necessity for a standing committee system, one of the principal reasons being that it would create more opportunity for particiation by the Parliament itself in the government of this country and it would broaden the basis upon which the whole administration of the nation works. I believe it is necessary at this stage for a country such as Australia to establish standards for democracy which other people can admire and emulate. In the area in which we live parliamentary democracy - indeed the whole idea of democracy - is under continual challenge. These days people talk about democracy but they implement it as little as possible. This applies to many people in our neighbourhood. It is important that we try to introduce or regather to ourselves some confidence in the institution of Parliament. 
I believe the committee system will do a number of things. First of all it will look as if Parliament were participating. I hope it will dispose of the idea that we are just rubber stamps for an Executive which meets in some secret enclave somewhere and presses on from there, lt would give easier and more effective access to the deliberations of Parliament by a greater number of people who now just write to us in voluminous documentation of some case, lt is a very important feature of our democratic society that people should have access to the decision making and policy making processes. Of course it would bring to honourable members some sense of doing something useful, in my mind there is no doubt that there are large areas of government in which all of us could participate. In this Parliament there is a great deal of intellectual capacity, human experience and - to use a colloquialism - a great deal of nous. For instance it would bc a great and fortunate accident if by some means members of the Ministry had this capacity to a greater degree than anybody else had. I am not conceited enough to think that I am much more gifted than people in the Ministry and 1 am not modest enough to say they are any more gifted than I am. I believe this is a convocation of equals. We are not in the contest of presenting the country with Prime Ministers, Ministers or people of rank. We are all of equal status. We come here in the same way representing people. 
The very function of government requires that some people shall have the responsibility of initiating Executive action and seeing that things work smoothly. But each one of us has a function to perform because of the capacity which we have, the people we represent and the very nature of the society of which we are a part. Therefore I start with the assumption that this is a convocation of equals and not just a selection of a Ministry. We are all in a position to consider and answer for the things we do. I believe we have to arrive at a state where decisions of this Parliament are both deliberative and considered. As I said earlier a large number of the decisions of this Parliament are not controversial. Whether there will be 8,000 scholarships or 10,000 scholarships, whether they shall be this sort or that sort and whether they shall be contested in this way or be granted in that way are not political matters. These are decisions which have been made somewhere along the line perhaps by somebody in the Public Service after the Minister has initiated the scheme. 
In my conversations with people of ministerial rank, with people who have held that rank at some time in the past and with senior public servants I gather some sense of how it all happens. The Minister has visions or ideas - perhaps not enough at the current time. He makes his views known, his staff starts to think about them and produces suggestions or facts in accordance with his ideas. One might say that hints have been dropped in various ways. The great difficulty that this Parliament creates for itself is that little opportunity exists for the hints from our side of the House or from outside the Ministry to flow into the apparatus. In the Public Service there Ls a great pyramid in which ideas can flow, 1 have no doubt, from even the most humble to the top until they reach ministerial level. They may well be implemented by political decisions. Outside that there is a curtain of some sort behind which the rest of the honourable members are consigned. On the other hand I believe it is necessary for some mitigation of power, not necessarily the mitigation of my friends in the Ministry but a mitigation of the authority which flows through the Executive decisions of the nation. We should be careful to keep everything under scrutiny, to let everybody possible participate and see that any decision which is made is exposed to public view. 
This Parliament is a forum. At this time that is about all one can say for it. In the last few days we have been able to consult and decide for ourselves on matters of some importance such as the quorum. I happen to disagree with the decision the Howe made on the quorum but in fact we made individual decisions. It seems to me the party system prevents debate in the Parliament from becoming an actual exchange of views. We can expose our views here but we cannot exchange them and then change them as a result of the deliberations of this House, in smaller groups such as committees one can do this. I believe we ought to be prepared to initiate a system which will allow us to do it. What shall be the functions of the committees? One might say that we are beginning. For some time we have had a number of standing committees such as the House Committee, and statutory committees like the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Works Committee. 
I have circulated a paper which is headed 'Development of the Committee System'. I do not know whether it has been printed in Hansard but, if feasible,  I  would like it incorporated in Hansard. It is a description of the committee system. If  it  were incorporated I think it would help honourable members as time goes by. It is an official document. 
No. This has been circulated. It was presented by  Mr Speaker. 
Let us consider the question of petitions. Many of them involve a great deal of research and effort on the part of somebody and a lot of hopes. 1 think petitions should be referred to committees and examined. Some of them are simple matters which ought not to take up much time. In 1963 I was here when a petition from the people of Yirrkalla in the north brought forth a committee of this House which examined the position. Many Bills are non-controversial. They do not necessarily involve any great differences of political philosophy. Legislation on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund is one example, the Repatriation Act is another and great areas in education are others, in my time here some of the most fruitful examination of legislation has been as a result of the tabling of legislation some months before it is finally considered. The matrimonial causes legislation was of that sort. The Attorney-General at the time was criticised over the Bill. He paid the House and the community the compliment of having the Bill circulated before he finally pressed it through the House. J believe that would probably apply equally to legislation relating to copyright, patents and so on. On the other hand estimates of expenditure ought to be considered. The point that one must make is that no committee will have an executive function on its own. Two features of it will protect any rights of the Ministry and the rights of the Parliament  itself. Under the motion a Committee shall act only when a matter has been referred to it by the House. Secondly, it shall report back to the House. 1 believe those are the protective devices for those who are concerned that perhaps this is a breach of the established parliamentary custom of executive, responsibility. Of course, a strong case can be made out for some committee of the House to examine what might be termed the need for legislation in various areas. Conservation is one of them, but there are a lot of other areas in which people can see need for legislation. It would be conceit on our part to think we know all about everything and that we should keep only the present standing committees. 
As far as the work of a parliamentarian is concerned, the most satisfying task I have had is my membership of the National Library Council. This is an executive authority. It conducts the affairs of a large institution. It has on it some very distinguished Australians and I regard it as an honour to sit and deliberate with them. I find myself in the unique position there of actually helping make decisions, evaluating the judgment of other people and assisting in the development of that institution. I believe a lot more of us could be used in this fashion. Most honourable members are isolated from this kind of deliberation no matter how good they are. There is one other matter that is perhaps a little parochial. The Senate has instituted committee systems and so on. I believe there is a slow move of responsibility and respect for the institution as a legislative and deliberative body to the other side of King's Hall. It might be just a narrow parochial view on my part but I want a great deal of it to stay here. I believe we have to become equal parts of the deliberations of this Parliament and that, therefore, the standing committee system would be an important contributor to that. On the other hand I remind honourable members that the parliaments of Britain, Canada and New Zealand all have similar systems to that outlined here. 
I hope that we will adopt the motion I have placed before the House. I know it has a great deal of support around the House. 1 am not quite sure how one crystallises this into full scale deliberations by a House such as this. Perhaps we are just learning the methods by which we deliberate, not as free people but as parliamentarians considering our affairs unrestricted by partisanism of any nature. Having sat opposite Ministers for so long and knowing them personally I can understand the difficulties they face. A Minister must have an overwhelming task to maintain his ministerial duties, his duties in this House and all the other things that go with being a Minister and a member. I believe the Ministry would be aided in most of its tasks - forgetting partisan-political ones - in most of the areas in which Ministers are engaged if Ministers had the independent minds that come from being members of this Parliament. Parliament is different from any other institution. We stand as equals before the greatest in the land. We are always treated as perhaps less than equal by many people, with the equal sign in the democratic equation. It is only to us that people can come with a sense of equality and it is from there we can step into here with a sense of equality. I hope the House will adopt the motion I have placed before it, that honourable members will give it proper and due consideration and that we will take a new step in the evolution of Parliament. I remind honourable members that Cabinet itself is an historical development of the committee system that was introduced in Britain in the 17th Century. I will not outline the history of it. We can all find that in the Encyclopaedia Britannica in the Library which, of course, is developing great resources as a result of an effective committee system revolving around the Library itself. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice:  (!) What establishments are being relocated in the Clothing Factory, Brunswick. 
What is the estimated cost of moving each establishment. 
What staff is employed in each establishment and will any staff become redundant as a result of the moves. 
What are the anticipated dates by which each movement will be completed. 
What works of a capital nature have been carried out in the present establishments in last 3 years. 
I simply want to place on record that I think honourable members are treating themselves with scant respect when they regard midnight as a sensible hour at which to knock off. While I agree with the general comments of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  I think we ought to be turning our minds to the idea that we should finish the official business of the House - or the running parliamentary business, I suppose one could call it - at 10 p.m. and fit in the adjournment after that. I do not see how anybody can regard it as reasonable to start a day here at 9 o'clock in the morning and go through until midnight, doing that 2, 3 or 4 days a week, then on to the next week and back to the roundabout at home. Surely to goodness people such as ourselves can start to look at this question of the time we knock off at night with a reasonable attitude. When the appropriate Standing Orders Committee's recommendations come before the House I am going to try to have adopted a knock-off time of 10 o'clock. Then after we have a reasonable adjournment debate the rest of the day will be our own. 
Chen Heng was the name. He is still the Head of State. A few days later Cambodia started negotiations with the North Vietnamese and the National Liberation Front. Negotiations were broken off after a couple of days and the North Vietnamese commenced military operations. It was not until 5 weeks later that the Americans entered Cambodia. I believe that the North Vietnamese committed an act of strategic folly. They should have stayed inside their sanctuaries, as they were called. There was nothing that the Cambodians could do and the North Vietnamese perhaps would have been safe from the Americans and the South Vietnamese. But now the North Vietnamese have opened up the war on 3 fronts. There is a war in Laos, a war in Cambodia and a war in South Vietnam. I believe that the war in Vietnam is a war between the Vietnamese people. It is unfortunate and it is tragic that outside forces are prolonging the war by supplying arms to both sides. The Russians and the Chinese are supplying arms to the North and the Americans and we are supplying arms to the South. So the war goes on. 
In the meantime the war has overflowed into Cambodia. Cambodia is becoming the cockpit of this war. It is my belief that with proper diplomatic action we could perhaps produce some rapprochement in Cambodia. It seems to me that there is no real profit for either of the military in continuing the war in Cambodia. While the North Vietnamese had sanctuaries in Cambodia, it was a good thing for them. But when the South Vietnamese entered Cambodia these positions lost their military value. On the other hand, the Russians are still in Phnom Penh. They have not recognised the Sihanouk Government in exile, so there is a point of contact with the North Vietnamese. 
The tragedy of the last few months is that governments such as the Australian Government, which express all the great freedom fighting slogans and so on about Vietnam, have not taken even the slightest piece of diplomatic initiative on Cambodia. I believe it is our duty - we have abdicated our duty - to exercise whatever influence we can to reconvene either the Geneva Conference or the Djakarta Conference or to stir up the United Nations to gather the people of this area together to entice the South Vietnamese and the North Vietnamese out of Cambodia. We should be using all of our diplomatic influences to achieve this end. It is sheer hypocrisy for this Government to act as it has done in Vietnam and to ignore the necessity for diplomatic action in Cambodia. I hope that honourable members opposite who speak so freely about principles will recognise that there is a war in Cambodia - I do not believe it is dominos or philosophy or ideology. Warfare has taken over and it is part of the way of life in Cambodia. Somehow we should do everything in our power to stop this warfare. It is a tragedy of the last few months that all of those people who speak with high moral tones in the United Nations and everywhere else do nothing at all about what is happening in Cambodia. To that extent I believe that this Government deserves to be discharged from its duty and that it should hand over to someone else who has a correct and proper appreciation of peace. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Sir John  Cramer) adjourned. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the question of hours of sitting being discussed for each day separately. 
I put before the House a simple procedural question so that we can at least talk about each day in succession and talk about the hour on which we are to commence that day. I believe we cannot arrive at any possible solution to this problem unless we do that. For simple people we want simple procedures. We will not get anywhere if we are to discuss 3 amendments on the hours of meeting in the 8 days of a 3 week cycle and another amendment proposed from the other side of the House on another question, together with the question of meal hours. If this course is followed we would have II or 12 questions before the House at one time and we will end up talking till 3 o'clock in the morning about closing at 10 p.m. Therefore, I have put forward my motion and I hope that someone will second it so that we can take this discussion day by day. 
 I speak as a member of the Standing Orders Committee which examined this matter thoroughly. I was opposed to any reduction in the length of speeches. I do not care how long-winded any honourable member is. He is sent here to represent up to 100,000 people. If it takes him a long time to get his points across, I am prepared to stay here and listen. I believe that is my duty and the duty of all honourable members. I am not stricken to the heart by all those honourable members who think that they can get their points across with remarkable clarity and brevity. There are many subjects on which that is impossible. Let us consider the question that has been placed before us by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  One point is that discussion of a definite matter of urgent public importance shall be restricted to 10 minutes for the proposer. Is that right? 
I regret my confusion. There  aTe  so many documents floating about that probably every other honourable member is confused about these matters. On the question of debating time perhaps a change is required in respect of the Budget. Perhaps there is no case for 65 members to speak in succession, although that is the only way in which all honourable members can have their views recorded on the Budget, the major financial document for the year. As to the debate on the Estimates, it does not matter what we say about cutting down speaking times. Unless the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  has changed his spots very rapidly in the last week, he will try to guillotine the Estimates through to suit some other timetable. 
Do not kid yourselves. Just because the time for speeches is reduced it does not follow that there will be greater opportunities to speak. I believe that every honourable member ought to examine this matter very thoroughly. I agree with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  In the last few weeks we have heard nothing but suggestions to reduce the hours of meeting, to reduce the quorum and to reduce this and that. Some honourable members have said: 'We are tired of listening to people?' Why come to Parliament? I believe that honourable members ought to examine the whole procedure very carefully before they vote for the amendment. I hope they will not vote for it. 
If we are to consider particular debates, such as the debate on the Budget, at the same time the whole process of the House ought to be examined. I suggest that members take hold of the Standing Orders and examine them thoroughly. They are the instrument of executive government and are not designed to allow all of us to speak. I have voted consistently against the gag, no matter against whom it was being applied. Tonight we allowed the gag to be applied for the benefit of the honourable member for Denison. I want to rebuke him as mildly as 1 can. I believe his action in moving the gag was against the whole spirit of this discussion. 
Some honourable members opposite have been weeping about lack of opportunities to speak, but when did they ever vote against the gag? If honourable members wish to apply themselves to this matter, in all conscience they should consider the whole process of the House and apply the principles of equality and the right to speak to each one of us, whether in Opposition or on the Treasury bench. We ought to examine very carefully any suggestions placed before us either to reduce times of speaking, opportunities to speak or days of meeting. We are now beset with troubles that flow from the fact that we hardly met for 5 months after the last election. On that point I have heard hardly a peep out of any honourable member opposite. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I refer to clause 3, which reads: 
The presence of at least one-fifth of the whole number of members of the House of Representatives is necessary to constitute a meeting of the House for the exercise of its powers. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following proviso: 
Providing that if it appears on the report by the tellers of a division of the House that onethird of the whole number of members is not present, no decision of the House shall be considered to have been arrived at by such division.' 
The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  had circulated a proposed amendment but unfortunately he has had to leave. My objections to a reduction in the quorum during debates are not so intense as those which I hold towards reducing the number of members required to pass legislation. I have a firm belief that the Parliament ought not to reduce its authority by requiring only one-fifth of members to be present to pass legislation. The Opposition Whip tells me that rarely have fewer than one-third of members passed legislation; rarely have fewer than one-third been present for a division. Therefore I do not think it would involve the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  in any hardship if he were to accept the proposal that one-third of all members should be present for a division. If my proposal is not accepted, at some time in the future circumstances may arise where a small minority of members will make a vital decision about the nation. I believe it is important that the House exercise its authority and require the presence of no fewer than one-third of members be present when a vote is being taken on legislation, as distinct from the ordinary sitting of the House. Originally the honourable member for Capricornia intended to move that one-half of all members be required to be present, but I have reduced that percentage in my motion to one-third 

 - Mr Chairman, l want to answer one or two points which have been raised. 
I can speak twice. 
Motion (by  Dr Gun)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Bryant's)  be agreed to. 
I want to raise again those questions which were before the House when we discussed the general principle of this matter and which 
I believe escaped the consideration of many members of the Parliament It is proposed that the quorum of the House be reduced from 42 or 43 to 25. This is probably fanenough to constitute a meeting of the House and to enable a sitting to proceed but it is not good enough, in my view, when matters of national moment are being considered. If this Bill is carried will it mean that 25 members will be able to suspend a member from the House? Will 25 members be able to amend the Electoral Act? Will 25 members be able to alter the fundamental provisions of the Defence Ad? I do not believe that the Bill ought to pass this House. It means, in effect, that 14 out of 26 members would constitute a majority. 
In conversations that 1 have had people have said to me: 'But that is not going to happen'. These have been the famous last words of other democracies: 'It cannot happen here'. It is our duty to see that it cannot happen and the only way we can do that is to preserve the quorum at a sufficiently high level. It is not good enough to say that it will inconvenience members if they have to be called into the House for quorums which are incidental to the work of the Parliament. The question is how many of us will be involved in making decisions for the nation. My view is that it should be a rare occurrence for a member not to be in his place when divisions are called on matters of national moment, so I oppose the Bill. I may vote for the amendment requiring that at least half the members of the House be present when a division is being recorded. I asked one honourable member: 'What is a quorum for a jury?' He said: 'You cannot have a quorum for a jury'. I asked: 'Why not?' He said: 'Because a jury has to make a decision. Each member of a jury has to make up his own mind. It may be a matter of some importance. The jury may be sending a man to gaol, to his death, or imposing a fine or some other penalty. A jury is considering fundamental matters.' In my view the considerations of the Parliament are of the same order. 
There may be a lot of matters which do not require the presence of a large number of members. Some are machinery questions, but I believe that honourable members are abdicating their duties and deserting their post if they consider reducing the quorum of this House to 25 out of 125 members. The argument has been advanced that honourable members are often engaged on committee meetings or on other matters, but when national issues are at stake in this chamber no other matters are more important. It could be that the House is considering a proclamation of war or the expulsion of a member from the House. Of course, some people say: 'It cannot happen here'. Why cannot it happen here? Of the 120 or so governments in the world that have attempted parliamentary democracy how many are still flourishing in full flight as parliamentary democracies? How many of those governments said: 'There is no need to worry about that: it cannot happen here'? 
No argument has been advanced to persuade me that the quorum of this House ought to be reduced. I hope that if this House abdicates its position the Senate will protect us from ourselves. I hope that this House will give this Bill serious consideration and reject it. No parliament of a nation like Australia should consider allowing 25 of its membership  -  14 constituting a majority - to make decisions of national moment. What surprises me is that throughout Australia little note has been taken of this proposal. As far as I can see there has been not one word in the Press about it - no leading article and so forth. What is wrong with the Parliament itself that it should even consider this proposal? It is not a question of inconvenience for afternoon tea or committee meetings. This matter concerns the number of members required to establish national policies. No-one can tell me that 25 is enough. 
Nobody would be surprised that the ideology, if that is what he is espousing, of the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  is losing its force. It is the doctrine of selective indignation. He has tears to shed as long as the Americans have led the way in shedding them. Of course people are being killed in war. That is what war is about. That is why we want it stopped. That is why we want Australian troops out of South Vietnam. We have debated this subject at great length in this place and it is one of the mysteries to me that people of the other side cannot see the total inhumanity, barbarity and folly of war and why we ought not to be in it. We ought to be helping those people to find their way towards the paths of peace. The contribution of Australian soldiers - estimable and professional as they are as soldiers, probably the best in the business - can only be sacrifice. 
Of course it is true that people are being assassinated. I believe that the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong kill people, assassinate them and murder them, and I believe it is murder. But I also believe it is murder to fly over the country at 30,000 feet and drop bombs indiscriminately on North Vietnam and South Vietnam. The honourable member for Evans and myself were in a party which flew over a large area of this country. The place is pockmarked with bomb craters. There must have been people around when they were dropped. There must have been people who were innocent victims of the war. There must have been people murdered because bombs were dropped from 30,000 feet. We make no selection in this. It is murder if one assassinates a village chief in the middle of the night and it is murder if one drops a bomb on the people from 30,000 feet. It is murder if an Australian naval ship stands off the coast of North Vietnam and fires ite shells indiscriminately into that country. 1 would just like to challenge this view of the domino theory that the honourable member for Evans mentioned a moment ago. The domino theory was never meant to be a military view. It was a philosophical or ideological one. The war in Vietnam has now become military rather than ideological. But then the honourable member for Evans overlooks the facts of life around the world. He has tears to shed for Viet nam. We all have for the misery of people. But why have Government supporters been so silent on West Irian, just up the road, and the people of West Papua having bombs dropped on them? Why are they silent about the travail of Israel and some of the Arabs mixed up in it - innocently a good number of them? Why was there  a  dead silence on Biafra? Why, if we are so full of fighting for freedom, were we the first government to recognise the military regime in Greece when the Greek colonels took over? Why do we not care that the people of Guiana are having their country nibbled away by Venezuela? This is the silence of the grave. 
So I believe that, in this debate on the estimates for the Department of External Affairs, the consideration of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos continually exposes the utter hypocrisy of this Government's position. We have only to examine the remarks of the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  when he spoke on 'Four Corners' some 4 or 5 weeks ago. Just consider some of the things he said. He said: 
We are in Vietnam for a very specific and clear purpose, and that is to give these people the right to determine their own future by democratic vote according to Asian ideas of what democracy really means. 
The Government does not care whether a country is democratic. Why was it the first to recognise the military regime in Greece? Why does it not raise its voice for the people of West Irian? Why was it as silent as the grave about the plight of Cambodia? Why is it not doing something to help the people of Laos? Then the Minister said that people would not believe us if we said we wanted a negotiated settlement and at the same time we gave military aid. So we gave civil aid instead. Do we not want a negotiated settlement in Vietnam? Do we not want the people of Vietnam to be brought to the council table? Do we not want the war to end by deliberation? Is it not true that it will end only by political discussion? Of course it is. The total contradiction between the attitude of honourable members opposite in their approach to. Vietnam and their attitude in their approach to the near neighbour, Cambodia, exposes the utter hypocrisy and bankruptcy of the foreign policy of this Government. lt is not a foreign policy at all. It is diplomacy by hitchhiking, by waiting for somebody else to make a decision and then going along with it. The honourable member for Evans and all his friends opposite who have tears to shed as long as the Americans have shed them first, expose the utter failure of the Australian Government in what ought to be its most important task in this part of the world, namely, to take diplomatic initiative. 
I want to place my view of the situation in Laos and Cambodia before the chamber tonight. I visited Laos and Cambodia in 1966 as a result of a request from the people in my electorate. As a matter of fact, they even raised part of the fare so that I might go. When I came back I reported to them and said in this House that I believed the North Vietnamese were committing acts of aggression against Laos. Nobody said anything about it. This Government did nothing about it. The only remedy would be by international action. It might even be that international action through the United Nations is impossible at this stage. From the other side of the House not one word has been said. If it has, it has been said in a very muted fashion. Not one diplomatic step has been taken to try to overcome this particular problem. 
I said at the time that we ought to exercise all our diplomatic efforts to obtain guarantees of neutrality for the people of Cambodia; that I believed that Cambodia was the insulation against the spread of the war in that part of the world. I suppose one should use the term 'Indo-China' at this stage, although personally I rather reject it as being a French administrative convenience. There are three different nations with three different peoples. To try to lump them together as one group confuses the whole issue. To try to bring the whole situation under one closely knit formula only confuses the issue, and it is part of the problem that the Government has created for itself. For the last 4 years the situation in Cambodia has been apparent. If it was apparent to a person such as myself briefly visiting the area from afar that this was part of the issue, why was it not apparent to honourable members opposite? Why was it not apparent to successive Ministers for External Affairs? I believe that over the last 4 years we should have bent all our efforts towards achieving total and international guarantees for the neutrality of Cambodia. Of course, we did nothing about it. We did not like Prince Sihanouk. He was one of those people who tried to bring neutrality to his country, who would not choose either side. He was a bit like the Labor Party in this. We do not choose either side. We deplore the war. 
Honourable members opposite would not like to live under the management of the Government of South Vietnam. While I think that that country is moving further along the road to democracy than it was 4 or 5 years ago, nobody can claim that it is the kind of government we would support totally. The Government of South Vietnam is a government of sorts. It is possibly better than the Government of North Vietnam in some ways and worse in others. I cannot understand how honourable members opposite can get starry eyed about it. The facts are that as the war has progressed in South Vietnam, as the pressures in the South become greater, the North Vietnamese troops can use the border areas to a greater and greater measure. Two and a half years ago Prince Sihanouk himself was getting upset about it. By the beginning of last year the people of Cambodia were becoming concerned about it. The expansion of the border areas was a logical military necessity for the Government of North Vietnam and its troops. One can explain it militarily but one cannot justify it morally. This must have been apparent to anybody who looked at it at all. Why had the Minister not brought into this House continual reports on this situation? Why had he not foreseen that this would happen? 
One would think they would know because there are very skilled people on the embassy staffs there. Although they did not tell me I am absolutely certain that in their reports they would make it clear to the Government that this was happening. So months and months ago, back in the middle of last year, this Government ought to have been exercising all its diplomatic talents, if any - it has a lot of diplomatic talent in the Department, if not too much in the Ministry - to try to protect Cambodia from the spread of the war. The Government did nothing about it. So on 18th March this year a logical political exercise took place. It may well not have been the most intelligent political exercise. It may well have been that the people of the National Assembly of Cambodia ought to have kept Prince Sihanouk as Head of State, but people, assemblies and voters of all sorts make tremendous errors when it comes to the ballot box. The people of this country have made a substantial number over the last 21 years of Federal elections. On 18th March there was a change in the Head of State in Cambodia. A few days later the government commenced negotiations with the North Vietnamese authorities. The impression 1 gained up there was that they made an offer to the North Vietnamese that they could keep their troops in the area as long as they gave a guarantee that when the Americans left South Vietnam the North Vietnamese would go home. I do not make that as a categorical statement. It was the impression I gathered from what was being said around the area. 
A few days later the North Vietnamese look military action against the Cambodians, i do not remember any clear cut statement of this being tabled in the House. Why is it that we should have to go to the news papers or eventually turn up in Cambodia and ask people on the spot, when we have a highly expensive Ministry, and a great Department of Externa) Affairs behind  m  to keep us informed? So before very long, after a few weeks, it appeared as though the Cambodian Government was in great peril. In a statement on the 'Four Corners' programme the Minister said that he did not think the Cambodian Government could survive. The Cambodian Government has survived. Lon Nol has been the Prime Minister since August of last year. I believe thai this government is as constitutional as any government in Cambodia could be. But that is not the point. We are not fighting for governments. We arc fighting for people. 
The honourable member for Evans had tears to shed. I should have thought that tonight he would have brought before the House 2 points of the tragedy. The first would have been concerned with the refugees of Laos, of whom there are about 40,000 and who have nothing with which to fare for themselves. They have been moved cut of the battle areas. They have built bamboo huts, but they have only the clothes they stand up in and a few utensils. We asked them - and honourable members opposite were with us when we asked them - 'What is the first thing you need?' They replied: 'We want a blanket each'. What would 40,000 blankets cost us? We must have thousands of them in the Army stores in Australia. They need a mosquito net each, because this is malaria country, and they want a ground sheet each. I suppose that $200,000 would solve that problem and make a tremendous difference to the physical comfort and the health of 40,000 people. And yet nobody cares. I have written to the Minister. Some day when he comes home I suppose he will answer it. 
I raise my voice on behalf of the people of Laos in this regard. Then we went to Cambodia and found what had happened to that country. All of us who have read anything about it or who have visited the place know that Cambodia was an oasis of peace in that area. Phnom Penh was a spacious, gracious and well-kept city. It was a totally civilian society. When I went back there in 1966 the only soldier I saw was one on guard outside the defence ministry gates. I imagine that throughout all Cambodia there would not be more than a handful of weapons in private hands. When those people were beset by war there was nothing they could do about it. Then the guns began barking on the outskirts of Phnom Penh. One knew that the students and young people that one saw training in the streets were being carried out to battle in buses that had been taken out of service in the bus services. The next day one could visit them in the hospitals. I visited the hospitals. I did not visit them alone. 1 saw hundreds of casualties on the floors, without beds. The whole place was stricken with the terrible toll of war. Months ago we could have been in the business of helping them with these problems. We do not need to become militarists. We do not need to engage in the war ourselves. We do not need to send troops. Human misery is the product of war. I believe this is what we ought to be doing. 
There are two things we can do effectively. First of all, we have great diplomatic strength that we have never attempted to exercise. We have a capacity to mix and meet with people, to be accepted on all sides of the fence. We have always ignored this because we have accepted other people's judgments. Years ago we should have adopted a policy of recognising both North and South Vietnam and North and South Korea. But that is a different question. 
The other thing that we have is a great capacity to perform civil aid with great expertise and a professional touch. We should ensure that we do not take sides in these matters. We should make clear that we only want the wars to stop. The human misery of war can be assuaged by the exercise of all the talents and skill and wealth of this country. Not one tear has been shed. That is why I believe that in the consideration of these estimates the Minister for External Affairs and the ministry should be condemned for their failure to accept the fact that war is man's greatest folly. We must demand that armies stop crossing frontiers and we can at least do something about the human misery, the refugees, the sick, the wounded and the homeless, not under some great miasma of moralising about what is happening in Vietnam. We should consider what is happening to the people of Laos and Cambodia. 
In adding to the  remarks  of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  I think that the first thing we have to realise about the people of Laos is that when they make an application for something they will make it in very, very modest terms. I have found, and I believe my colleagues who travelled with me to Laos would agree, that the people of Laos do not expect much and therefore when they ask for things like blankets, mosquito nets and so on, they keep their application at the most muted level possible. I think the Minister mentioned a figure of $2,500 in relation to blankets, mosquito nets and so on. From what I know of the cost of items purchased through disposal stores throughout Australia I should think about $200,000 would supply enough blankets, mosquito nets and ground sheets to the refugees of Laos to solve a good many of their personal hardships. 
There is one other point that I would like to make following on the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  We have a sort of doctrine of selective indignation about the places for which we shed tears. That is, we do not worry much about what is happening in West Irian but we have a lot of tears to shed for Vietnam. We do not have much care for the people of Cambodia but there are other people for whom we have a great consideration. Our method of determining the amount of aid we give is what you might call 'compassion by calculation'. For instance, the country with the least per capita income is Burma. In the last few years we have given that country about $8m worth of aid for its 27 million people, which means they have received something like 30c per head from Australia. The Indonesians are our closest neighbours, and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is terribly worried about them. The Indonesians receive 30c per head from Australia. The richest people in the area are those of Singapore, and they receive about $1 per head. The next richest people are the people of Malaysia, and they receive about $2 per head. What am I suggesting is that we apply both needs and comparison. I believe a closer examination is needed of what people really require to solve their problems in that part of the world. 
Finally, I refer to the question raised by our colleague from the north who is so afraid of the Communist downward thrust. I would just like to place on record that it is all nonsense. I hope those people who are still listening to the debate at this hour of the night realise that the honourable member speaks for himself alone on this question. He would do very well in Thailand where the Communist suppression operation command has a magnificent managerial structure - something like 31,000 people involved to suppress 3,000 Communists. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
-! wish to answer, first of all, the remarks of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who seems to be a sudden advocate of peace, good order, discipline and all the rest of it. Now, the honourable member for Angas is a very estimable man who would never break a law. But I understand that be owns a motor car that will do better than 100 miles an hour. There are not many laws in Australia which can stand that. During the course of his oration, the honourable member suggested also that the police in South Australia did not support the Labor Government. I have no doubt that the South Australian police will carry out their duties as police forces ought to. I hope that the honourable member is not trying to sow seeds of discord between the elected Government of South Australia and the police force of that State. 
The general approach to the question of the Moratorium and all the things connected with it is associated more with attempting to sabotage the social unity of Australia for political reasons than with trying to answer the great social and political questions that have been raised. I bring to my aid a fairly respectable advocate on this question - the 'Australian Financial Review' of 7th September, only a week or so ago. In an article about the position of the Moratorium, the Government committees and so on, the 'Australian Financial Review' had this to say: 
With Australia's second Moratorium only 6 days away, the Government committee to expose Communist influence in the Moratorium and to defend Australia's Vietnam commitment is virtually defunct. 
Of course the Government knows that it cannot defend Australia's commitment to Vietnam. The article continued: 
The Government itself appears much more interested in promoting the law and order issue than fighting the Moratorium campaign by justifying Australia's commitment to Vietnam. 
Further on, it states: 
The Committee itself was quickly dubbed the CCC - Communist Can Committee. 
The article continues: 
He is a redoubtable freedom fighter as we all know:   . . meanwhile, set about contacting all interested groups to raise funds. It was intended that apart from the pamphlet, to place advertisements in daily newspapers. 
Initial support was promising with the Liberal Party machine at both the Federal and State level pledging all possible help including finance. 
But somehow the Committee's activities never got off the ground. 
Promises of finance fell through . . . 
These are the remarks of the 'Australian Financial Review' with reference to honourable members opposite and their Moratorium Campaign. 
We are not ashamed to wear badges. We are not ashamed to say where we stand and to show people that, on this issue, we are prepared to display publicly our concern for world peace. The Moratorium is an important social and political event in Australian history. Whose streets are they? The streets of Australia belong to all of us. They are not just commercial arteries. Quite often, they are closed for commercial reasons. Quite often they are closed for social reasons. Do they belong to the farmers? Was there anybody on this side of the House who raised any protest at the idea of the farmers marching down the streets of Melbourne? Of course we did not. We approve and applaud that kind of political action, particularly when it is taken with some sort of response to the necessity for the community to carry on its daily work. Nobody objected to Bourke Street and other streets of Melbourne being blocked off. Do the streets of Melbourne belong to the returned soldiers only on Anzac Day? Of course they do not. Is morality simply the private property of something that has Government sponsorship? Of course it is not. 
Do the streets of Melbourne, and I presume of other capital cities, belong only to the people of Irish ancestry? They can use them without let and hindrance on 17th March each year. Of course they do not belong only to them. The streets belong to all of us. It is claimed that we are trying to sponsor violence. What manner of men are they who speak in that way? Who are the men of violence in this Parliament? Which is the Party that uses violence as a political weapon? It is the Party that introduced national service. Is not that the epitome of violence, the supreme exercise of violence against an individual when he is dragged into the forces, or if he will not go, is dragged off into a prison cell? Is not that violence carried to its extreme? What about the penal clauses of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? What about capital punishment itself? The Liberal and Country Parties are the parties of violence in this country. 
I wish to place before the House a very important matter that is presently occurring. It relates to events that have occurred in Melbourne over the last week, today and will occur tomorrow. I am afraid that the Government in Victoria has departed from the accepted principles of democratic action and has set out to create violence tomorrow. I believe that we will be able to lay a good deal of the blame at the feet of Victoria's Premier. I wish to refer briefly to some events of last week. On Thursday or thereabouts of last week a number of students of La Trobe University marched. It is quite a small university as universities go, and well out of the town. The streets leading to it are mostly wide and not greatly populated. A number of students set out from the University to march down Waterdale Road in Heidelberg and to distribute leaflets. This they did. I know some of the students personally and well. 
As they went they gathered children in the train of their procession and they gave out leaflets. As they were going quietly about this business, as 1 understand it, along a nature strip which is about 15 feet wide there, they were obstructing nobody, offending nobody and doing no harm. Police had gathered to supervise them. There always seem to be multitudes of police on these occasions. Suddenly a member of the constabulary issued the order 'Get into them', or words to that effect. The police hoed into the students with truncheons and chased them around the streets, down backyards and so on. This ought to be a matter of great public concern. ] believe that there ought to be a public Inquiry into the manner of this occurrence. That was not the end of it. I know the area fairly well and I know some of the people involved fairly well. Subsequently there was a very large meeting at La Trobe University. A great deal of concern was expressed by the student body and the academic staff. Yesterday another march was held. Evidence of events is reported in the Melbourne 'Sun', which states: 
Students and police fought running battles with batons, fists and stones in a wild demonstration at West Heidelberg yesterday afternoon. 
As reported in the 'Sun', the students had this to say: 
It was shocking, just shocking', the  president  of the La Trobe University Students' Representative Council said. They were brutal and unprovoked assaults without reason. It had been agreed from the start that h would be peaceful. They just couldn't leave us alone.' 
I&gt;r Everingham - Where were they coming from? 
They were coming from La Trobe University and going down Waterdale Road. If anybody who examines the area can see how students could obstruct traffic in that area I will bc interested to hear about it. The 'Sun' report goes on: 
The officer-in-charge of police at the march, Inspector K. Platfuss, of Heidelberg, said last night marchers had caused the clash with police. They started to block the road and people leaving shops and factories were obstructed', he said. 
One has only to look at the geography of the area to see what nonsense that is. The report of the statements by Inspector Platfuss goes on: 
But they needed what they got. They got some baton today and they'll get a lot more in the future'. 
As a. result of that some of my colleagues and I have sent telegrams to the Chief Commissioner, the Leader of the Opposition and  Sir Arthur  Rylah, hoping that they will intervene to try to prevent a disaster occurring in Melbourne tomorrow. This is not because the people associated with the Moratorium are wild and violent. They are not. The Moratorium that was held in Melbourne - and I take it that it was the same in the other capitals - was a credit to the whole community, to the police, and in a sense to the governments to whom the police forces are responsible. lt was a civilised social exercise of political rights and I believe it was a credit to the community. When that happens 1 believe that the community ought to give credit where it is due. In my time I have taken part in a number of these demonstrations. I represent an area in which is located Pentridge Gaol where John Zarb was incarcerated, Ryan was hanged and Tait was held under sentence of death. In the past we marched down the street by the thousands and we have had the total co-operation of the police. There has never been any trouble. Yet somehow just at this magic moment violence has occurred to people who are basically non-violent. What harm is it if people are handing out pamphlets in the streets? Our Premier in Victoria.  Sir Henry  Bolte - for what he was knighted, goodness knows - is reported as having stated: 
If lbc Vietnam Moratorium marchers cause deliberate obsruction in the city tomorrow, police will break il up. 
He is also reported to have stated: 
The instructions to police were different to those given for the first Moratorium in May. 
Is there nobody here who can exercise some influence upon that dreadful man? Is there somebody who can do something tomorrow morning and have him cancel the instructions and adopt the kind of principles that prevailed in this place when some unhappy people caused a great and difficult and, I believe, quite obnoxious obstruction here by chaining themselves to the railing in the gallery. These people were treated in an absolutely and remarkably civilised manner and I only wish that the procedure followed by  Mr Speaker  on that occasion could influence the people who run the police forces of Australia. The time has come for a national inquiry into the way the police should operate in their relationship with the citizenry. I believe this is very important. If the States will not take the initiative perhaps we here can take some sort of initiative in a bi-partisan way because it concerns us all. 

 - Mr Speaker, I propose to address myself particularly to the amendment moved by the Opposition which calls for the appointment of a joint select committee to inquire into and make recommendations on all aspects of the provisions and operation of the Repatriation Act. I want to briefly set out some of the problems, as I see them, after occupying the seat of Wills for 15 years, during which time I have acquired a filing cabinet full of papers dealing with the frustrations of the operations of the Repatriation Act. These are not necessarily the results of bad decisions by the Repatriation Department. They are not necessarily the direct responsibility of the Minister for Repatriation because the Repatriation Act does not allow him a great deal of discretion. Quite a complete and complex administration system has been set up in order to try to give justice to ex-servicemen. I am afraid that quite often justice becomes too important and mercy becomes unimportant. 
The proposition put forward by the Opposition is that at this stage, 50-odd years after the first Repatriation Act was passed, when we are considering our 51st amendment to it, it is time for a total reexamination of the system. No honourable member can believe that it is working properly. There are those people inside the repatriation system for whom it may well be said that they are doing quite nicely, thank you. There are certain aspects of the system which no doubt are the best in the world. If our repatriation system is the best in the world - I am not well-enough briefed on the situation in the rest of the world to know - then so it ought to be. So often we hear people saying all round the place that we have the best soldiers and the best thisandthat. Well, for the people who make the best sacrifices only the best is good enough. I do not believe that we have handled enough of the anomalies that have been discovered inside the system in the last few years to warrant this kind of complacancy. Therefore the Opposition has moved its amendment today. 
The problems, as I see them, and as they develop from day to day in one's office as a Federal member of Parliament from the continuing flow of clients, customers or constituents - call them what you willfall into the following categories: Firstly, there is the hospital system. There is the inadequacy of the availability of hospitalisation for certain people. There is the problem of the elderly ex-serviceman, particularly those of the Second World War. There is the question of the onus of proof under, I think, section 47 of the Act. There is the question of the rates of pension and there is the question of dependants. 
I want to deal with each of those matters in turn. I shall refer first of all to the repatriation hospitals. The first thing we have to recognise - and this applies particularly to the First World War person and, I think, increasingly to people who served in the Second World War and the other wars - is that the repatriation hospital represents a badge of honour, one might say. When a person becomes incapacitated he does not feel so badly about it, if it is a result of service to the country and the country recognises this, and there is room in the repatriation hospital for him. I think this is a psychological and emotional factor on which we ought to place some value. 
The service pensioner is a case in point. As I understand it there is a time limit on people who are chronically ill, those persons in hospital suffering from a non war caused disability. For the sake of argument let us say it is a stroke. That man would be about 73 and, on the law of averages, his wife would be 68 or thereabouts. He is stricken down and into the hospital he goes. For 12 or 13 weeks, T think it is, the repatriation hospital will look after him. T think these people probably would get the best service in the world. But then, as the time for them to be up comes nearer, there is a disaster looming for the family. The question is where are they going to put the husband, the father or the repatriation patient? This happens, tragically, too often. I believe that at least we ought to be able to fill the repatriation hospitals before we start to put people outside them. I think this is an important and urgent social measure. I do not see how any of us can justify a system in which hospitals such as the one at Heidelberg - I presume that the other hospitals in Australia are in a similar state - have empty beds and servicemen are discharged to go somewhere else where the service may not be as good, where the costs may be high and where there may be a difficulty of access, amongst other things. We are not just dealing with the repatriation patient. We are dealing with his wife, who is probably in not much better health. We are dealing also with members of his family who at this stage probably have families of their own. It is my belief, and I have always held this belief about servicemen, that these people accepted a total responsibility for the com munity at one stage in their lives. Not all may have done a great deal of fighting, but many of them have. However, they were on tap for years and the total sacrifice was the price they were prepared to pay. It is not too little to consider some total medical and hospital system for former servicemen, particularly the ones who are short of means. 
I make a particular appeal for First World War soldiers. They have been discussed here for many years. One of the disabilities of the repatriation debates is that in the 15 years I have been here no really substantial changes have taken place in the repatriation system. One could almost lift out a speech one made, 6, 10 or 12 years ago, alter a few words here and there, change a few figures here and there, and bat on from there. That is not good enough. Ever since 1 entered the Parliament, and even before that when I was a serviceman myself, [ have believed that the people who have served most dangerously and most arduously in all the history of this country were those who served in the First World War. There are probably not more than a few tens of thousands of them left, because even the youngest of them must be getting into their 70s. This is the least we can do in return for the sacrifice and the difficulties they went through. 
There ought to be a total medical benefits scheme for first World War servicemen. I would make the dragnet wider. If we have good hospitals it is an idiotic waste to leave some of their services unused. I do not know how many beds are available in the repatriation hospitals. Those statistics are readily available. My guess is that they are not more than half used most of the time. Yet we live in a community which is baffled by a shortage of hospital space and it is quite irresponsible to allow some of these hospital facilities to lie idle. The other question which I raise concerns the older servicemen and women. There is something about the repatriation umbrella which brings some psychological and emotional satisfaction to former servicemen. On the other hand, I think we ought to make medical benefits more accessible to them. Let us take people such as ourselves. I suppose that, for people of our age group and our salary group, the idea of a repatriation pension is not of any great significance. This would apply to a lot of people I know. 
But the availability of medical treatment through the repatriation system would be very valuable. I would be inclined to grant medical benefits to former servicemen, after some sort of proof, whether or not their war service was responsible for their condition. I would make the proof very wide. 
I would try to untie the medical system from the pension system. If there is anything that inhibits a proper appreciation of access to medical benefits it is the possibility of a pension. I believe it is time we separated the two and had a total medical and hospital benefits system. That would give the pension system a different evaluation. A large number of people are becoming increasingly dependent on superannuation, involving substantial amounts at various times. There is probably not a great necessity to spend our lives battling for a pension system. That does not overlook the fact that in some instances, or in most instances, the pension is a payment for discomfort, misery, suffering, hardship, and the possibility of a shortened life. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  pointed out that it would cost only about S4m to give full medical benefits to all the people who served in the First World War. I do not believe that to expand that scheme to include a few more thousand servicemen would cost the country anything more than it could afford. 
It is important that there be a new look at the whole system. We have to examine the way a man's entitlement is decided through the system, In the schedules to the Act - we are now on to the 51st schedule - efforts have been made to try to make the system tick. This is all very well but it has become increasingly onerous on the ex-serviceman. The tribunals do their best to be affable and friendly but no matter how hard they try it is very difficult for the  ordinary  ex-serviceman  not  to be awe-struck when he attends these tribunals. Ex-servicemen are not really used to arguing in legal terms. They are not even used to putting their thoughts down in writing. This situation applies particularly to the kind of ex-servicemen ( represent. They are not inarticulate in any way but they are not accustomed to arguing their case. 1 think the tribunal system has become unduly complex. It is certainly too legalistic. 
The more the system is widened the less need there is for legalisms. 
I believe - I am supported in my belief by arguments which have been put in this House for so long by so many people - that the onus of proof clause, as it is known, is too stringent. Section 47 (2) states:  lt shall not be  neccesary  for the claimant, applicant or appellant to furnish proof to support his claim, application or appeal but the Commission, Board, Appeal Tribunal or Assessment Appeal Tribunal determining or deciding the claim, application or appeal shall be entitled to draw . 
Honourable members know of dozens of these cases. 1 know of a case which is sent to the Minister every so often. It involves a man who was in the Light Horse, in the First World War. He was in an accident at Seymour. He was knocked off his horse, and injured in such a way that he limped thereafter. Now he is elderly. He is in his 70s. He is at a stage where he is almost totally incapacitated. Nothing can be found in the First Australian Imperial Force's records of the casualty clearing station or whatever the hospital was at Seymour at that time to show that he was admitted. There is evidence that somebody else was killed at the same time. Evidence is available from one of his former brothersinarms who saw the accident and who says that it all happened as he described. Yet for some strange reason this man is not accepted as having a war caused disability. There must be thousands of these cases throughout the community. 
I come now to the rates of pension. They are not good enough. As outlined in the booklet 'Rates of Benefits' the special totally and permanently incapacitated rate war pension is $38. The wife receives $4.05 and each child under 16 receives $1.38. I notice that the totally orphaned person receives $12 a week. One cannot keep a wife on $4.05. If there is a wife who can be kept on that amount most of us would like to meet her. Of course ii is ridiculous to argue like that. I know the amount of pension is not meant that way. It is simply a subvention upon the standard rate. 
Let us take the example of the young man who is called up for national service, goes to Vietnam, treads on a mine and is totally incapacitated. Imagine his future. He comes back to Australia and is repaired eventually. He goes out to civilian life as a TPI pensioner. What is he receiving? lj he has lost an arm or a leg he does receive so much more, I know, but he is receiving somewhere between $40 and $60 as an average. If he is married and has children the rate goes up a little more. But where does that amount stand in relation to the community at large? It is well enough if he is 22 or 23, perhaps, but he will still be in the same relative position when he is S3. Because of the TPI situation the young man who has been invalided out of Vietnam has been conscripted into a lifetime of poverty. These rates are not good enough as a standard of living. The other pension systems are not supposed to be standards of living. We on this side of the House might claim that they should be; indeed we do. Nobody can say that the repatriation benefits system provides a standard of living in accordance with the Australian way of life. Anybody earning under $70 or $80 per week these days and with a wife and family is doing poorly. The average wage is getting up towards that although the basic wage lags behind it. I believe the rates of pension need serious examination. 
The question that one would like to raise is that of dependants. I have mentioned it already in speaking of allowances. The provision for dependants is too meagre and I believe we can be much more expansive in matters such as the Soldiers Children Education Scheme. In view of the fact that we have a pretty extensive scholarship scheme and free education at various levels, it would not hurt us to expand the Soldiers Children Education Scheme to include the children of those who have not got war-caused disabilities but who have spent a considerable amount of their lives in the services. Take the case of a young man who joined the services in 1939, went off to war and fought in the Middle East and then in New Guinea and died when he was, say, 40 years of age leaving 3 children, one in matriculation year, one about 13 or 14 and one a bit younger. Although it could not be proved that his death was war caused especially if he died from a disease such as cancer or heart disease, I think it would be an act of decency for the community to accept some responsibility for the children of that man who served in combat in this way. 
I believe it is important that the Party re-examine the whole repatriation system. I hope honourable members opposite will shed their fear of authority and party discipline - I know it is dangerous to suggest they should sometimes shed their fear of authority - and examine this repatriation question in the way we should. In many ways I regard the repatriation system as non-partisan. As for the RSL, for years we have been promulgating some of the things that it has now suddenly discovered. I only wish its spokesmen would get out in the streets and do a little more for the rights of servicemen through political action rather than its leaders preaching some of the nonsense that they have at various times. I live for the day when the RSL will really get out at election time and say Here are the issues and this is the side we will support this time'. Although I would regret it if it picked the wrong side, I for one would acknowledge its claims, in honour bound, if it had a good case. 
The Prime Minister was reported as saying, over the weekend - and I will paraphrase bis remarks - that such political activities as demonstrations and the Moratorium were unnecessary and that we should rely on the ballot box as the democratic method. In 1967, 89 per cent of the people of Australia voted for the Commonwealth to take full responsibility for the Aboriginal people. The fact is that the Government has shirked this task. What faith can we have in the ballot box or any other democratic process when the Government neglects such an emphatic public demand? 

 - Mr Speaker, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a discussion on the question in dispute between the members of the Opposition and the Minister for the Interior. 
I move this motion so that we can work the situation out. 
I thank the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  for giving me at least a few minutes in which to say a word or two in this debate. My impression is that generally speaking honourable members opposite are not really aware of the situation in most areas of state education, and I presume that that applies equally to very large areas of nonstate education. I represent the 2 suburbs of Brunswick and Coburg in Melbourne. There are 26 State primary, secondary and technical schools, two or three specialised technical institutions, and 10 Catholic schools in that area. In 1938 I was a student at the Melbourne Teachers College. During the period I was a student teacher I spent several terms of two or three weeks in those schools. I would say that at the present moment nearly every child in Brunswick and Coburg is not as well served in education as were the children attending those schools in 1938. In 1938 practically every teacher in front of a class in that area was qualified. In 1938 all except two or three of these schools were 30 years newer. We are continuously going backwards. This is a problem that this Parliament never faces. Education is not just a constitutional concept. It is an attitude of mind; it is a responsibility that devolves upon all of us. For the last 15 years, particularly over the last 12 years, we have been campaigning here for the Commonwealth to accept a full scale personal, direct parliamentary responsibility for the schools. 
In the few minutes that are available to me 1 can refer to only some of the things that I think are characteristic of Australian education and which are challenged by our amendment. I wish that when honourable members opposite spoke they could, as the honourable member for Warringah did, take their minds out of the partisan area of the parliamentary system and see that our amendment embodies some good points, particularly the section about which I want to speak the one that calls for the establishment of a commission to examine the objectivesandqualityofAustralianeduca- tion. Australian education is highly centralised in every State. New South Wales and, I understand, one or two of the other States are now breaking away from this idea, but Australian education is still highly centralised in comparison with most areas overseas. Education in Australia is unduly conservative. We still teach French, for instance, instead of teaching Indonesian over large areas. 
There are still great areas of inequality. Women do not get the same go from the education system as do young men. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  outlined the social difficulties associated with our schools system. It is still largely university orientated. We on this side of the chamber believe that much of our education is becoming increasingly irrelevant to the needs of the community for which we turn out the citizens. We believe that education has too low a priority in the considerations of this Parliament and, generally speaking, in the social and economic structure of Australia. 
I represent one of the industrial areas of Australia. Last year a freeway that passes right through my electorate was opened. The State Government, which is always whining for funds, spent$35m on the freeway out to the Tullamarine Airport. It could have rebuilt every school in my electorate to the standard of schools in Canberra and had $14m change. I believe that this is a serious departure from the way social priorities ought to lie. Schools in my electorate are starved of all services. The educationists are now accustomed to living in a situation in which there is very little secretarial assistance, the schools are architecturally unsuitable for the tasks which they have to perform and in which, in general, they are supplied with chalk and the walls and very little equipment. 
There is a lot of wastage. Over the last few years there was a wastage of 81,000 young men and 34,000 young women in our universities. This is a serious and tragic social wastage. About 46,000 or 47,000 young women who are the equals of their brothers in social background and intellectual attainment are deprived of a university education not because of their intellectual incapacity but because they happen to be women. With a university education women can solve many of the shortages at the intellectual and professional levels. But, of course, we do not believe that education is turning out people to perform a certain function in society. We are not in the business of turning out better butchers, doctors, teachers or engineers. 
The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  was unusually at sea tonight. 
However, I think he was at cross purposes with my friend the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  Usually, honourable members will recall, there was in the past a great communion  betweentheconstabularyandtheBarto  the great disadvantage of the citizenry. I want to place a few points before the Committee concerning the position in Papua and New Guinea as I see it. Firstly, there is the isolation of this particular area of Australian government from this Parliament. This is no real reflection upon the current incumbent of the Ministry, but it has been one of the bad habits of more than the last 20 years. Here we have a large depart- ment of State, one responsible for administering 2.5 million people in an area which is about twice the size of Victoria and with probably some of the world's greatest social problems. Yet it is the preserve of one department of State. I have always felt that this was an error and that some other system should have been established by which this Parliament would be able to keep it under continuous scrutiny. Unfortunately many members of the Parliament have very little local knowledge of that country at all. lt is a serious inhibition on our continuous scrutiny of that area that we are able to travel to it freely only once every Parliament. Something should be done about this. I believe it should be almost compulsory for every member of this Parliament to visit the Territory as often as possible and at least once every Parliament. in a debate about the trusteeship Territory there are some things which are noteworthy achievements for Australia. First of all in an area twice the size of Victoria - J think it is about the size of New Zealand - Australia has established reasonable peace and good order, even in the most remote vastness of it. One has only to travel to other parts of the world to realise how great and efficient have been some of the efforts that we have made in Papua and New Guinea which is one of the world's most mountainous countries. It probably has some of the greatest divisions between people, in language and everything that one can think of, anywhere in the world and yet we have managed to bring the essence of government - I suppose we could call it that - to almost every part of the Territory. This is an achievement of no mean order when we think how serious are the errors and deficiencies in many of its near neighbours. 
Secondly, there has been the beginnings of a total education system. In other words, there has been an effort in the past to establish a universal education system. I regret that one of the recommendations of the World Bank report on the development of Papua and New Guinea was that this be slowed down. At the time I opposed this recommendation. I believe that in future people will see that this was a serious error even to have considered it at all but, on the other hand, a very large number of people in Papua and New Guinea, in areas -of great geographical difficulty, have begun to receive an education system. Thirdly, I suppose - and of this, I think, we should have made much more - there are the beginnings of political democracy. I have always regarded our steps in this area as slow moving and unduly conservative and cautious but, in fact, considering the way in which the rest of the world moves, we ought to move in this matter with far less inhibitions. I believe that we have done ourselves a serious disservice whenever people have come to Australia and have wanted to visit New Guinea. No matter whence they came they have been prevented from travelling there. 
There are some areas in which Australia has made steps of which we can be reasonably proud but, on the other hand, there have been failures which were quite unnecessary and which will be quite serious in the future. The first is in the area, of higher education. We are not going to be able to produce a Papua and New Guinea with full social self-confidence and selfreliance, able to handle the problems of a modern nation, unless there is a large number of university graduates or people with some sort of higher education. One has only to look at the population of Queensland, which is of the same order as the population of the Territory, and see how many people it takes to run its Public Service, how many graduates it takes to staff the education system and all other areas, to see how meagre has been our effort in this regard in the Territory. Some years back in West Irian, for instance, there were many more people graduating through its higher education systems than we had, although our population was much higher. If there is anything that will strangle the future development of Papua and New Guinea it has been our failure to develop higher education at greater speed. I congratulate the young people who have now ventured forth as the first graduates - I think there are half a dozen or 8. There are another 50 or 60 to come and in 12 to 18 months there will be a further 200 or 300. I only wish it were thousands. This is a difficulty we cannot overcome very easily but it is something that is going to prevent a self-reliant, self-confident, self-administering Papua and New Guinea from developing in the way we would like it to develop. 
On the other hand I believe that we have been unduly cautious and conservative in our approach to economic development. The economic development of Papua and New Guinea is meagre to the point of nonexistence. How many industries are there in Papua and New Guinea? Why is it that we have not been able to develop light industry, for instance, there? How large is the import of shoes, clothes and processed foods which could have been manufactured there? Certainly in the light industry field such things as clothes and shoes I can think of no reason why we should not have developed production in Papua and New Guinea. Of course we have a private enterprise government which believes that this is no area for government enterprise. I believe that that simple piece of doctrine will be one of the strangling influences on the future of Papua and New Guinea. Even if it cost something, this Government should have established industries at this level throughout the Territory. I have always regarded it as a serious social error to have permitted the development of industries like breweries. 
What: about the commercial development of the country? I understand that its banking system is integrated with our own. In some ways there is something to be said for the integration of some of the facilities in Papua and New Guinea with our own facilities but it is time that the people of Papua and New Guinea had some kind of internal banking system of a more sophisticated nature than they have at the moment. The same would apply to all the other areas of service industries. There is no reason why this should not get off the ground at this time. I remember that when the State Savings Bank of Victoria was launched back in 1884 the population of Victoria was only in the tens of thousands. In many respects we have been so inhibited about the development of government enterprise in Papua and New Guinea that we will slow down the whole future of that country. This is, in some ways, probably the most serious failure and most serious deficiency. 
The third area in which we have failed to be as outwardgoing as we should have been has been in the development of the higher echelons of the Public Service in the Territory. The Government has been in office for 21 years. How long does it take to develop a person to the stage where he is able to control a public department? Why is it that 10,15 or 20 years ago we did not set out a programme providing that by a certain time say 1970 we would have 500, 600 or 1,000 people to staff the upper echelons of the Public Service? Offhand I do not know how many indigenous people we have in what might be called the 'top bracket' and 'policy making areas' of the Public Service of Papua and New Guinea. I think the number is one or two, if any at all. There is no excuse for this. I believe that in many respects we have adopted what might be called an 'attitude of unconscious racial superiority'. We should have foreseen long ago that Papua and New Guinea would have this requirement. 
There is the serious deficiency of insufficient cash in the community. I think this is part of the economic conservatism of the present Government. It is 12 months or so since I visited the Territory but it seemed obvious to me that no Papuan or New Guinea would be able to have the kind of living standard which we had reason to expect in a modern community. A person in Papua and New Guinea who has been to school and is now working in the Public Service, for TransAustralian Airlines or for Ansett Airlines of Australia, is living beside people who have a living standard such as we have, and he wants transistors and butter on his bread. He wants shoes for his children and a bedroom for each member of his family. We have failed to accept the fact that this is an important social factor. I believe that the social consequences of the decision to keep wages at a low level are much more serious than the economic consequences of perhaps inflating the system inside that country. It wasoneofthedecisionswhich,ibelieve again will cause serious disabilities for that country in the future. 
Another area in which we have failed is in the development of a road system. It is true that the country is formidable. There are few parts of the world where the geography is so intimidating when it comes to the question of road development. I do not see how a national concept can be developed unless some kind of land surface transport system which brings people together is available. It would cost a very large amount of money to put a road system through the Territory which would bring the people together. Now. of course, the Government will say that this suggestion is ridiculous; it cannot be done because the mountains are too high, the jungles are too dense and economic development is at too low a level. These arguments are, I believe, nonsense. Roads have been the way in which nations in the past have knitted together for centuries. Our failure in this regard I think will have a serious effect on the future. These are the Government's failures. 
On the other hand, Australia has made some major errors. I. believe that the differential wage scales which have been the subject of debate in the Territory for a long time, and which are still a subject for debate there, are one of the most serious social errors that we have ever perpetrated. People cannot work beside one another doing the same job and not receiving the same pay without feeling great resentment about the situation. My honourable friend from Hunter pointed out that hotels in Papua and New Guinea charged just as much as Australian hotels charge. In fact, they charge even more. Yet, hotels in the Territory pay indigenous workers very minor salary scales, perhaps $5 to $6 per month, to do the sort of job for which people in Australia receive $40 to $50 per week. I believe that this is again a social error that we have perpetrated. My own beliefs are that these social questions are much more important than economic conditions. We see here a community which is developing very closely beside one of the world's most wealthy and egalitarian societies. Many of the mores of this community and the attitudes of mind that we have have seeped through into Papua and New Guinea. If great unrest occurs in the future, a great deal of it will flow from the social insensitivity of the Administration over recent times. 
Another matter that I question is the development by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia. It is true that this development may produce some kind of great overseas credit advantage for the community in the time to come. I have my doubts about that. 1 have never seen figures which have convinced me that in fact these profits will flow back to the community itself. I still cannot understand why the Government did not establish some kind of national corporation with which to tackle this task. Honourable members opposite cannot tell me that the $200m that might be involved in the long term for this project is beyond our resources. If it- is within the resources of Australian enterprise, k is inside the resources of our community. My own regret is that probably a very large corporation will develop there which a future developing independent community will find very difficult to handle. 
There are other areas which, I believe, we should have tackled. One of them is that social discrimination, which ought never to have been tolerated and which we ought to have tackled with great vigour at its very beginnings, developed in some areas. I wish to make a few points about the education system. I suppose that the best we can do is hope that we are able to give the country the greatest possible educational support. As I remarked earlier, the difficulties of the country in some ways, as far as we are concerned, stem from its isolation from us and our difficulty to see and to understand its problems. In a way, we are developing there an education system in isolation. Our own education system in Australia needs, J suppose, one would say, a complete revamping. I am not too sure that in Papua and New Guinea developments are going the way they ought to. 
One of the most important things for us to consider is our future relationships with that country. 1 would hope that, as it develops towards independence - and I believe that the parliamentary system is the way in which it will develop its independence - we will recognise that every time it makes a law which is not vetoed at a higher level, this is an exercise of selfgovernment, and that is the way it ought to go. 1 do not think that there is any ready formula. Self-government can develop only by the evolution of the people themselves and the grasp of the parliamentary system over their growing society. I hope that this Parliament very shortly will examine the kind of relationships that we ought to have with the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. I would hope that we will be able to develop all kinds of very close co-operative systems in travel, perhaps mutual commercial enterprises and so on. It is time that we got on with the job. I hope that, no matter what the future bears, this Parliament will take some concrete steps towards closer examination and analysis of where we stand and where the people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea stand in all these matters. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I take it that we are to continue this debate and not to have a series of public meetings or demonstrations in the chamber. The way things look at the moment it will not be long before members of the Country Party are waving some sort of banner. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  a few months ago demonstrated the collective neuroses of members of the Country Party and Liberal Party when he said that the safety of the nation is at stake; that we are not strong enough to defend ourselves; and that we could not expect our allies always to come to our aid. Therefore, he said, he wanted universal national service. 
There can be no better demonstration of collective idiocy than that simple statement of belief. The honourable member would bring all the young men into the Army for 6 months. It does not matter whether they would be doing anything useful. He says that they could work in the cookhouse or in the latrines. I do not know what they would be doing in the cookhouse. I suppose they could cook all the surplus food products that members of his Party are attempting to produce. What exactly does he mean? Has he ever consulted the Year Book to see exactly what his proposal would mean iri numbers? How many men would he get for universal national service? How many men were born 20 years ago? How many have been added to that number by migration? He would take about 120,000 men who come into that age category each year and put them through the collective machine to paint stones outside an officers mess or to peel spuds in the cookhouse. How many would he have and for how long? 
At the 1966 census there were 436,709 men, including Liberals, between the ages of 20 and 24 years. There were about 384,000 between 25 and 27 years. After the honourable member had been running his apparatus for a little while he would have nearly 1 million men under arms. What on earth for? Is it not time that we adopted a rational approach to this matter? The national service system is a Western European anachronism imported into this part of the world. The honourable member referred to costs. He said as an aside that he has no respect for those who will not bear arms to defend this country. When is he going to start on his colleagues in the Liberal Party-Country Party Government who are of  military age group  and who are spending their time in this place sending young men to a war to which they will not go themselves? When will he start on a couple of Government members in the Ministry who were of the military age group when the war in Vietnam started? 
It is time that we took a good look at the whole system, of national service and what it means. I believe that national service, as it is presently conducted, is  a  national confidence trick; that it is an exer cise in national humiliation; that it is a piece of collective immorality; and that it is a selective injustice perpetrated upon a group of young men who cannot answer for  themselves. Why do I say that lt is a  confidence trick? The honourable member for Hume demonstrated that no military need exists for national service at this time. I ask: What do we need; how many do we need; and what do we want them for? 
First, we must examine our neighbourhood to see what is the military situation there. The facts are that very few of our neighbours have introduced this national service system. Very few of our neighbours offer any sort of threat to us. Why is it that honourable members on the other side such as the honourable member for Hume will not stand up and say: This is the threat and this is how we ought to answer it?' Is it Indonesia, which a week or two back demonstrated that it was going to reduce its military establishments, that threatens us? Is it the Cambodians, the Laotians, or the Malaysians? Is it the Japanese or the Singaporeans? Honourable members opposite never say. Of course, this is never questioned. So, I believe that it is a confidence trick to exploit continually the emotions of the people of Australia by promoting the fact that 1,000 million people happen to be to our north. Therefore, the national service system should be rejected. 
National service is also something worse. It is moral values which are at stake. National service is an exercise in national humiliation. Young men of the 25 years to 40 years age group who have come into this Parliament have been elected on tickets favouring the perpetuation of the war in Vietnam and on the continuation of the national service system. On any kinds of ancient Australian values, if they believed in the war in Vietnam, they would go to that war themselves. If there is one thing that we always believed in, it was: One in all in. If we are going to involve somebody else, we had to place our own freedom, our own service and our own sacrifice on the line. When will honourable members opposite do that? Every election in which we elect a young man who is of military age to this place on a Liberal Party-Country Party ticket is an exercise in national humiliation. 1 am not like the honourable member for Hume. I do not disrespect these young men. In some ways, 1 find most of them personally likeable. But 1 just cannot understand what has happened to the ancient Australian values when I see that this is happening every month or two and when I see that every 6 months we indulge in this dreadful ballot system in which the Leader of the House, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  indulged himself the other day. On the other hand, the ballot box by which we select men to be the political sacrifice for the political gimmickry of honourable members opposite, is an exercise in collective immorality. Can anybody justify that system? Can anybody say that there is anything moral about this system of selecting young men to be sacrificed in the battlefields of Vietnam or that, if they fail to answer the call or if they defy it with an exercise of moral courage which always surprises me in the young, we have not indulged in national immorality? This is the greatest act of immorality .that this country has ever perpetrated. I am astonished that the national service system has been able to continue so long. 
Also, its continuation represents an abdication by the parents of Australia of their rights. What is wrong with the parents of Australia, the mothers and fathers, .that they allow this to happen to their sons? What is wrong with the sisters and brothers of Australia that they allow this to happen to their brothers? What is wrong with the people of Australia that they have allowed this system to continue so long? Are there many honourable members on the other side of the Committee who are prepared to debate the necessity of our participation in Vietnam? Of course there are not. Australia went into the Vietnam war off the cuff 5 years ago. We stay in it because this Government has not the moral courage to pull its troops out and to say: 'We made a mistake'. So. we continue with it. 
The parents of Australia. I believe, are abdicating their duties to the young men of Australia. Everybody over the age of 25 years who votes for this Government in support of national service is abdicating his or her responsibility and is exercising national selfishness. I regret it when young people lie in the streets in front of trams. 
I do not think that it is a wise thing to do. But for the people in the tram to object to being inconvenienced by these young men, some of whom will be sent to war, is . an exercise in selfishness. When I think of the great mass of our community of 12 million or so people calling on the 40,000 young men who have been called up so far to do their duty while they carry on with their business as usual I wonder what has happened to the morality and sense of values of this country. The national service system which is being perpetrated is in fact an act of national selfishness, which ought to be rejected. 1 am sorry that debates are not held as frequently as they should be in this chamber about the whole basis of our defence system. I regret that we are debating this matter at this late hour of the night when the proceedings of the chamber are not being broadcast. I challenge honourable  members opposite to take this issue out into the public by-ways and talk about it. After the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  went out in the front of Parliament House last week and addressed the people - thousands of people around Australia are grateful to hint for the courageous stand he has taken on this issue- I walked back into Parliament- House. As I came in somebody said to me: 'Are you leaving them?'- 1 said: 'No, I am not leaving them'. I was returning to the chamber to participate in a debate on repatriation. I should point out that there were notable absentees from the ranks of honourable members opposite. Two young women said to me as I was coming through the door-: You ought to be leaving them'. I asked them why. They said: They are such a scruffy lot'. J looked a bit askance because I do not pass that sort of judgment on people. Then one of them .said: 'They are just children'. I replied: They are the ones you are sending to war. They are the ones who should be on your conscience'. Frankly, I just cannot understand what has happened to the people of Australia. I repeat that national service is an exercise in selective injustice. 
The honourable member for Hume said that the 12 million people who live in Australia live in one of the world's most affluent countries and, indeed, it is. In the last 5 years about 42,000 young men of 20 years of age or thereabouts have been called up. Over 400 of them have been killed. Some 2,000 of them have been wounded. Some- of the young -men who have been called- into our armed Services and sent to war have been crippled for life. They are now in receipt of a miserable pension which can never offer them a decent standard of living. In other words, these young, men have been conscripted into a lifetime of poverty because somebody blundered some years ago in relation to a matter of national policy. Some young men are being imprisoned. Only the other day a young man in South Australia was sent to prison for 2 years. How can we justify such a thing? How can the Minister for Labour and National Service, who, as far as I can tell, has chosen to leave the chamber rather than discuss the issue which is being debated, justify it? What about the Australians who are being injured or killed in the mine fields of Vietnam while the rest of us go about our business as usual? 
Is it not possible that there has been a change in the morality of the community? Many of the honourable members opposite have had distinguished careers and many of them have a conscience. Why do they not appreciate that the national service scheme is a blot on the social conscience of the whole nation? It is, of course, a very divisive issue.- If the Government had any real conscience . of or sensitivity to Australian nationhood it would abandon this system immediately. It is self defeating. I know of countless young men who now scorn the Services - not for the past but for the present - because the national service system has made service in the Australian Army obnoxious to them. As a result, they will not join the Citizen Military Forces and they will not join the Regular Army. They do not look upon the Royal Australian Air Force or the Royal Australian Navy as a respectable career. National service has dragged the: whole idea of service in our armed forces and the defence of. Australia in the dust and the public is helpless to do anything about it. lt is a serious reflection upon democracy that between 40,000 and 60,000 people can take to the streets in Melbourne in protest against the national service system and receive no response from the. Government. I believe that it is important, to the unity of the nation that we abandon our national service system. We have to find an alternative method of recruiting men to our Services. Do not tell me that it cannot be done because I know a good deal about this subject and I know that it can be done. Young John Zarb, who was one of my constituents, went to prison not very far from my office. The demonstrations which were held on that occasion were held because he was imprisoned. If there was no national service system there would be very few demonstrations about the war in Vietnam, even by those people who regret we are there and believe we should not be participating in it. We have seen in recent weeks what might be called serious public riots between police and dissenters. All these things flow from the iniquities of this system. I wish that honourable members opposite would remember that the issue is that the values of this nation ought to include, first of all, that no-one is sacrificed for the common good in an instance such as this unless there is some equality of sacrifice from elsewhere. 
During the last war each one was called upon - to pull his weight in some way or another. There were restrictions upon the enjoyment of life while others went off to war. At the present time it is business as usual for the largest mass of the community. Some 40,000 young men in the last 5 years have gone into the services. Some 500,000 have not. All those 500,000 at some , stage of their careers have had this threat hanging over, their lives. I belong to the age group which now has sons who enter this area and I look with horror at what is threatened by my friends opposite to my sons and my friends sons and my nephews. They will have to face either the battlefields of Vietnam or the prison cells of Pentridge. Yatala, Boggo Road or somewhere else. I wonder what kind of values stimulated all of this. 
I did not agree with the commitment to Vietnam when it was first ventured upon. At that stage there was emotion in the community. A large percentage of the community seemed to agree that it was a desirable exercise. By 1967 a large percentage of the community had faced the fact that the commitment was no longer valid. I refuse to believe that the community at large says that we ought to be in Vietnam any more. I believe that the great mass of the community regards the national service system, and particularly its selective nature and the commitment to Vietnam, as obnoxious and lacking in moral value. I. do not believe that we will be able to hold up our heads as a nation which has some sense of moral values and some sensitivity to the general traditions of this nation until we have abandoned the national service system. As I say, it is a piece of national humiliation; if is selectively unjust and ought not to be tolerated by a democratic parliamentary system. 
I want again to place on the record the remarks which the present Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  made in this House on 20th August 1964 when referring to universal national service. He was asked this question: 
Then why have von not introduced national service training? 
At page 439 of Hansard he is reported as saying: 
We have not introduced it because to do so would be against the unanimous advice of our military advisers. Why do our military advisers give that advice, and why do we accept it? 
Further on he said: 
This advice is partly the result of their assessment of the requirements of the current situation and the adequacy of our forces to meet it. Can we meet the current situation without reintroducing a national service training scheme? This is a matter that our advisers have attempted to assess. Their advice also is partly the result of their assessment of the adequacy of our forces to meet the situation ' if national service training were introduced. Would the forces be less adequate? 
Would they be more adequate? Would the introduction of such a scheme make no difference?  A  proper answer to these questions springs from  a  knowledge of the defects of the national service training scheme. 
He continued: 
A  national service training scheme is not a source of long-service officers, non-commissioned officers, technicians, tradesmen, specialists and instructors. These are the people who are scarcest at the present time, and it is precisely these people who would be diverted from their current operational roles by the necessity to train national servicemen. It is sometimes suggested - I hear the honourable member for Bradfield muttering something about it behind me - that an Army instructional corps should be established, ft is precisely the young, fit people with recent experience whom we need in the field force, that we also need for training the CMF and national servicemen. 
Tn other words, the attributes to which we attach the greatest importance - readiness, efficiency, availability - would be substantially reduced by a national service scheme on any worthwhile scale in the circumstances existing at present. 
That was said by the present Minister for Health who was then the Minister for the Army. 
That was said in 1964. 1 will be brief about this. The history of the service is, of course, that universal military service was introduced in 1910. In 1929-30 it was abandoned. It covered the age group of men from 14 to 60 years at the time in varying degrees of service. In 1939 Part IV of the Act was reproclaimed and people were called up to serve. Subsequently during a period from October 1939 to somewhere in the middle of 1943 there was an extension of this service until there was almost universal military service of a permanent nature in the Australian Military Forces. In 1943 the Labor Government expanded that by a special Act to include service beyond Australia. To say that the Labor Party introduced conscription in such a period as this is. of course, nonsense. It is flying in the face of the facts and I would suggest that honourable members opposite, including the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  who is unable to think for himself, should turn to the pages of the debate at that time and see what the Minister had to say. I believe - I am prepared to debate this with the honourable member for Hume and with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  in any part of their electorates and in  my  own electorate as well - that national service as  they  envisage it is wasteful, militarily unnecessary and an anachronism at the present stage of Australia's history. 

 Mr PETTITT (Hume) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of National  Development 
Proposed expenditure $38,457,200. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth. 
Whereas - (a)It has now been recognised that students as members of the University Community have a role and contribution in the making of University policies and decisions. 
The Council of the Australian National University is the highest decision-making body and the final authority for the determination of policy within that University. 
The University Council has approved the request of students and recommended to the Government that two elected undergraduates and the  President  of the Students' Association be members of that Council. 
The Government has only agreed to add the  President  of the Students' Association to the existing one undergraduate representative on the Council. 
The workload involved, the representation required, and the acknowledged necessity for continuity at Council level, demand that at least two elected undergraduates in addition to the  President  of the Students' Association, represent the Student Body on the Council. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
A further undergraduate representative on the Council of the Australian National University. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Speaker, before the suspension of the sitting we were discussing the appointment of a select committee to-- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
I second the motion, and in speaking to it I want to make it quite clear to the House that since the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made his statement this morning I have been preparing to participate in the debate. I have been a member of the Parliament for 15 years and a member of Party committees for all that time. The issue that the House had been discussing affects some 100,000 people, but apart from that a simple question of parliamentary ethics is involved. This morning the Minister for Defence made his statement, in accordance with long standing practice, without interruption and spoke for whatever length of time he thought was necessary. He was answered by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  then made his speech and he was followed by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  Subsequently the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  spoke, and then we were told that the gag was to be applied. - 
There will be very little opportunity for this matter to be raised again. It is an issue on which I believe there is a fundamental difference of approach between the Government and members of the Opposition. Yesterday the Minister for Defence had this to say: 
If we were a country that sought to buy defence, which is what the Labor Party would do if it wanted any defence, we would have to pay higher salary and wage rates in an attempt to attract people into the armed forces to get the numbers we needed. 
Today he made a statement announcing the Government's intention to establish a committee to look into the pay rates and conditions of the Services. We on this side of the House believe that there is a fundamental contradiction between the announcement by the Minister yesterday and his statement today. Therefore the serviceman is unlikely to get from the kind of committee he has announced the answers which are necessary for the development of the Services. On the other hand there is a contradiction between the way we and those on the other side approach these questions. On this side of the Mouse we put forward a point of view that this was a question for the Parliament to decide, that we ought to involve the Parliament itself in this. So we proposed a parliamentary select committee. Honourable members opposite said: 'No, that will not do.' The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  sneered at the idea. - 
On Wednesday last, the Minister for External Affairs, referring to Malaysia's intentions regarding China's admission to the United Nations, told the House that Malaysia would abstain from a vote on the actual recognition of Communist China, ls it a fact that Tun Ismael, the Malaysian Minister, stated on the 5th of this month that: 'Malaysia would if necessary co-sponsor any move to admit China by a simple majority'? Why did he give the House erroneous information? Is it because he feels that the position of the Government on Communist China is so untenable that he must mislead the House in order to make it appear credible- 
 One can only hope that the strategy of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is better than his logic, but I am afraid that all the evidence of the past 5 or 6 years shows that is is not and that he is weak in both logic and strategy. We have listened for 20 minutes to half an hour to the honourable gentleman's cliches, apologia and attempt to denigrate the Opposition. He missed completely the point of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on the question of national service and conscientious objection, ft is the moral issue, the conscience issue, that is dividing Australia and nobody can escape that fact. It is not surprising that honourable members opposite are unable to see it. There is nothing that the Minister can do to discredit the Leader of the Opposition in this matter. 
During the course of his speech the Minister for Defence mentioned one or two other things. He talked about the fact that we are unable to recruit servicemen by this method or that method and he said that the voluntary system will not work any more. He mentioned the Kennedys, for instance. A few weeks ago  Senator Kennedy,  in the American Congress, said: 

 Mr President, I will support the volunteer Army in Vietnam. 
Why did the Minister not quote all that  Senator Kennedy  had to say? Why does the Minister avoid the example of Britain? Why is it that Britain is able to get the appropriate numbers into its Services by a volunteer system? Why is it that Canada is able to do so? Why is it that Canada can maintain the volunteer system when it has no unemployment and it has a wealthy and affluent society where wages generally are much higher than in Australia? Of course, there are many reasons. 
Let us examine some of the issues that the Minister raised. 'Can these people', ha said, 'be replaced by the volunteer?' To whom did he particularly refer? He referred to the rifleman. How will we replace the rifleman by the volunteer? We will not replace the rifleman, as a volunteer, by paying him no matter what we will unless the cause is just and something worth fighting for. The Minister says that we will have to rely on a highly developed sense of patriotism. In that, he exposes the whole basis of both the defence and foreign policies of this country. The Government has raised the issue of defence and foreign policy until there is no question of patriotism involved. That is why people do not join the Services. No-one is going to join the Army to become a rifleman in a cause which most people in Australia reject. What an immoral approach the Minister took here. He said that in our voluntary system the wealthy, the privileged and the educated will not end up as riflemen. How many wealthy, privileged and educated end up as riflemen now? What happens to the man who is at the university and who is in the proper age group? He continues at the university until he graduates. Does he end up as a rifleman in Vietnam? Of course he does not. When will the Minister table facts and figures on this? What should we pay a man who walks continuously on the brink of danger? There is no answer to that question at all. The only answer is that he must be fighting for a cause in which he believes. For the last 5 or 6 years Australia has been dragged continuously into causes in which nobody believes. 
Another cliche which the Minister and his friends opposite have used constantly relates to the question of the Labor Party and defence. We have not time tonight, in the 10 minutes to which we have been reduced on the Estimates debates, to debate this, but I refer honourable members to the defence programme which appears on page 6 of the 'Defence Report 1970'. It is very much like the defence programme of the Australian Labor Party which can be found in our Federal platform almost with the same phraseology. 
I want to deal with one or two matters that I regard as fairly important. First, it is not the procurement of material which is the great issue in the Australian defence system, but the procurement of men. This gets us to the point of what the Australian nation's objectives are. This is why people will not join the Services. We have not had this explained to us tonight, yet the Minister for Defence has unlimited time. He  can  rise at any moment and he can talk until some time after midnight, but he will not explain it to us. We must start by asking what are the objectives of our defence forces. I believe that we should be setting up a defence system under which we are able to watch the seas around Australia, control the skies above Australia and respond on land with the forces that are necessary to combat anybody who is likely to arrive here. Of course, the errors of our defence system are that we have never applied ourselves to these tasks. 
In the last few years, in fact for the last 20 years, we have had no overall defence plan. We have been the satellite of other people's defence and foreign policies. We have gone shopping for our defence equipment and we have ignored the civilian component of the Austraiian defence forces and have come forward with other things. What would you call them? They are hardly cliches. We hear of forward defence. What does that mean? We have argued it before. We have heard also of Fortress Australia. Does that mean that we bring all our soldiers home? People talk of Fortress Australia to try to denigrate the idea that our first objective is to defend Australia and its boundaries. We do not talk of Fortress Japan, Fortress Italy, Fortress Germany or fortress any other nation in the world. It would pay Australians to look at the statistics of countries which have soldiers beyond their boundaries. They are surprisingly few in number. What about our neighbours? The Minister for Defence mentioned nothing about our neighbourhood. 
Tonight I want to refer in particular to the Citizen Military Forces. What have we done to the CMF? It has become the  Cinderella  of the Services? Why is that? Service in the Citizen Military Forces is not a question of money. Nobody will join CMF just to make an extra dollar or two. The facts are that some 35,000 people are serving voluntarily at the moment, some involuntarily of course, in the Citizen Military Forces. Four housand are serving in the Navy, 31,000 in the Army and 668 in the Royal Australian Air Force. They are prepared to serve in the citizen forces, but in 1938 there were 80,000 prepared to serve. 
What has the Government done to the citizen forces? What it has done is largely enshrined in the registration form for national service. Section 7 on the back of that form deals with service in the Citizen Military Forces as an alternative to national service. The moment we introduced that system we killed the spirit of the Citizen Military Forces. The moment we reduced the Citizen Military Forces to a funk hole for argument in this Parliament we killed the spirit that makes the Citizen Military Forces what they ought to be. We cannot have a satisfactory citizen force while it is an alternative to the kind of service that people want to avoid in Vietnam. The Government has done all sorts of things to the armed Services. It has made service in the armed services of this country, obnoxious, not because the uniform is not an honourable one to wear and not because the traditions do not mean something to every Australian, but the very fact that the objectives for which people serve on occasions such as this cannot be supported by morality, logic or any form of national spirit. So service of any sort in the armed forces has become obnoxious. That is why young men do not join the Citizen Military Forces. 
T was one or those who spent a long while in the citizen forces. I think I have a good idea of why people join and the kind of service that is needed. We do not have time to discuss the matter fully in the few minutes available in the debate on the estimates, ft is not really a debate but a charade of some sort. I am envious of the system that the Senate has developed for dealing with the Estimates. One has only to turn to the remarks of people of some moment in these matters. Major-General Paul Cullen,  President  df the Citizen Military Forces Association, has stated: 
However, there remain some alarming aspects and trends; the principal one being the strength of the CMF. recently down from 36.000 to 29,000. 
That was over last year. They were the remarks of a citizen soldier. But what does one of the highest ranking service soldiers have to say? General Brogan, General Officer Commanding Eastern Command, has estimated that his own command is 1,000 mcn below strength, and his command is probably better off than others in Australia. He said that there was an urgent need to bolster the citizen forces. Of course, far from bolstering them we have started to destroy them. We have started to make service in the citizen forces as an alternative to national service obnoxious to the community. People say that young Australians do not do that sort of thing. On the other hand, one has to ask whether it is a logical and legal alternative. I do not know. It is not easy to find out. What happens to the young man who turns up at the local citizen forces unit and says: 'I want to join up'? The only inquiries I have made lead me to believe that as soon as the recruiting officer wakes up to the fact that the young man is seeking an alternative service to national service he sets up a pattern of inhibitions. 
Why is it that all units are down on strength? This Government is culpable in all regards, lt is guilty of destroying national spirit when it comes to service in the armed Services. It has found no solution to the problem of recruitment. It has failed to produce a rational, logical national defence policy, and I believe that to that extent it has destroyed a great deal of the national unity and national spirit that has always made service in the Australian Services something worth while and something of which people could be proud. I believe that the very tone of this debate is a disgrace to this Parliament. Honourable members opposite know full welt that nobody on this side of the chamber is any less mindful of the defence of this country than they are, yet they are continuously dragging into this House remarks such as those 1 am about to mention. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The question I raise is the non-attendance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in the chamber during the debates on the estimates of his Department. I regard that as an extreme discourtesy and one which we ought to deplore. It was the custom of his predecessors in this high office, no matter how busy they were during the debate on the estimates for their Department, to pay the chamber the courtesy of their attention. It is astonishing enough that at this stage- 
What is not true? 
The honourable member is suggesting the predecessors of the present Prime Minister were equally discourteous. They were not. As a general rule, in these matters they were good parliamentarians. They recognised their duties and recognised it was a courtesy to the Parliament to pay at least some attention to the place while the estimates of their Department were being debated. This is a reflection upon all honourable members opposite. They are the ones who are responsible. They are the ones who are keeping the Prime Minister in office. But as it appears nobody else wants to say much about the estimates of the Prime Minister's Department there are a few things one could say about his Department even in his absence. First of all, of course, he has something to do with tha Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. One wonders why we spend so much money on that. But I will take a few minutes to remind the House about one of the functions which come under his Department and to which at least he has always paid reasonably courteous attention when the body concerned has applied to him for some assistance. I refer to the National Library. The National Library is controlled by a council nominated by the Government and on which 2 members of this Parliament represent the Parliament. I have the good fortune, and I regard it as an honour, to represent this House as a member of the Council.  Senator Sir Alister  McMullin represents the Senate and the Liberal Party and is Vice-Chairman of the Council. The other members of the council include  Sir Harold  Wyndham, the honourable  Sir Peter  Crisp,  Mr Kenneth  Myer,  Sir Leonard  Huxley and  Dr Ursula  Hoff. Currently we are awaiting a new appointment from the Prime Minister's Department. 
I would recommend to honourable members that they take some interest in the National Library which is now becoming one of the world's largest and more important institutions. The function that the Prime Minister plays in the operation of the Library is assistance in gathering collections when they come to our notice. Recently  Sir Harold  White retired from the post of National Librarian and was replaced by our former Parliamentary Librarian,  Mr Alan  Fleming. They are both excellent men. We have now  Mr Les  Moore as our Parliamentary Librarian. In recent years we have made some very important acquisitions to the National Library and the person principally responsible for discovering them was. of course,  Sir Harold  White. But 1 take this opportunity to invite any members of the Parliament who wish to look over the National Library or find out something about it to do so. I am at their disposal and they can even use the Standing Orders to ask me questions as long as they give me due notice of the more detailed ones. The point about it is that it has a staff of some 500. It is one of the most important buildings in Canberra and therefore honourable members should pay some respect to it. The other point is that one of its most urgent functions is to supply this Parliament with facilities when it wants them. It is our principal backstop. 
There have been some increasingly interesting developments in library affairs in recent times in the use of computers, microfilming and all the ways in which information can be retrieved. As the Prime Minister does not appear to worry much about this Department I will pay him the slight compliment that he has been very useful to the Library whenever it has asked for special grants for special purposes. But again I make my very important complaint that it is an act of extreme discourtesy for a Minister, particularly the Prime Minister, not to be in the chamber when we are discussing the estimates of his Department. 
 I want to draw attention to and make a small report upon the Parliamentary Delegations to South East Asia 1970 which is shown under Division 434 with the very modest sum of $7,465. I was a member of the most recent delegation and I am sure the nation received good value for its money. I will make 2 points about the visit. First of all, I think these are very valuable contributions to the understanding of the Parliament of the area in which we live. I hope they are continued. I would like to see them expanded. I would like to see facilities available to members to travel to this area more freely. Since I entered the Parliament there has been a large increase in the opportunities to travel internationally. These select groups travelling for special purposes are very important both in contributing to our understanding and in contributing to our relationships with the people in those countries. In the last delegation we first of all visited Thailand, then went on to Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. In Vietnam we were able to visit our troops in the field. It is to our troops that I wish to draw the attention of the House. I believe there is a great deal of misunderstanding about the actual military position in which our troops find themselves at this time in that area. 
We have our 3 battalions at a place called Nui Dat, which is some 12- or 15 miles from the coast. Our main base is in the area called Phuoc Tuy. We have established a substantial base there. I believe the important point about this is that we have not very close relationships with either the American forces or the South Vietnamese forces. Part of the development has been not exactly to isolate Australian troops but to make them as nearly as possible independent of our allies. I personally believe that this is an important military fact and one to which members of this Parliament ought to draw the attention of the people of Australia. 
In recent times we have had the announcement that one battalion is going to be withdrawn. That is fair enough. It is in line with Labor policy. The troops should never have been there in the first instance. On this occasion the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that having decided that, we ought to withdraw the lot, particularly in view of the fact that the Americans are scaling down their forces in South Vietnam. This statement has been drawn upon the head of my Leader and the Labor Party a remarkable set of cliches. We have been charged with running out on our mates, told that we are going to scuttle, that we are going to cut and run and that we are going to do all these things which Australians regard as infamous, notorious and badly placed. I want to show to the Parliament that this just is not the fact. The situation in Vietnam is such that if all our troops were lifted out it would make very little military difference to the total area and would have no substantial effect upon the operations of our allies. It certainly would not affect in any way the political situation as it is found in that part of South Vietnam. One of the difficulties with which we are faced is that people are still thinking back to 1914 and 1940, when if the thin red line was broken the whole side was let down, the enemy poured through and there was riot, destruction and catastrophe here there and everywhere. I think it is important that the nation realises this. 
The Australian troops in Vietnam are not in close relationship with anybody else. They are out in rubber plantations and so on in Nui Dat. They are not garrisoning any area. They are not in close and continuous operation with any of their allies. Their removal would have no substantial effect upon the work of the alliance at all. This is an important point I believe it negates all the criticisms levelled at the Labor Party when we suggested that if one battalion were going to be withdrawn all the battalions ought to be withdrawn. This is not to deny that the troops in the field are as good as anybody. I was impressed and, as au Australian, I suppose I was moved by the comments from Americans and others about the work of our soldiers. But we have to admit that there is a continual sacrifice in Australian lives and Australian casualties there. The fact is that the military operations there are quite muted compared with operations in other areas. All that our troops' continued occupancy of the place can bring is sacrifice. Large claims have been made by people opposite that our civil aid exercise is a substantial success. This may depend on whatever one claims to be a success. But the political results have been nil. I think one should state quite emphatically that as far as one can tell from the report - this was the view of the servicemen there, both highly placed and at the lowest possible level - we have had no political impact at all upon the town close by, which has a population of about 9,000. We were advised by the senior officers and by anybody who cared to talk that perhaps 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the people in this town were still supporters of the National Liberation Front. 
I believe that the criticisms levelled at the Labor Party for suggesting that all the troops ought to be withdrawn from Nui Dat are wrongly placed. The Government now finds itself in a position where it decides to withdraw one battalion from the field. There is no logic in leaving the others there. Honourable members might take a look at the statement of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Minister said: 'Oh, well, it will not really matter much. They will just cut down on their patrolling.' 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! It being 11 p.m., and in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
When this debate was adjourned f was speaking about delegations to South East Asia last year and the visit of the Australian delegation to the Australian armed forces at Nui Dat and Vung Tau, just to ensure that people started to look at the subject of the positioning of our troops and our future there in a more reasonable light than the announcements from the Government. Briefly I remind the House that our troops at Nui Dat are not a garrison force. If they were removed military arrangements in the area would not be disrupted. They are not in a continuing battle situation. They are not in immediate contact with our allies. So the immediate withdrawal of all our troops would in no way endanger the  war-like  operations of our allies. Therefore, there is no possible justification for the continuing placement of the 2 battalions there after we withdraw the first battalion at the end of this month. All the strictures and horrified hysterical pronouncements from honourable members opposite when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said that our troops should all be withdrawn are quite invalid. There is no political gain to be made. There is no evidence that our operations in South Vietnam have produced any political change. Consequently, it is quite immoral and unjustified to leave our troops there. 
Before the debate on these estimates closes I want to refer to the responsibility of the Prime Minister with regard to the New and Permanent Parliament House. I will not argue the question of the site, but the report has been before the Parliament for 5 or 6 months. I remind honourable members that in their own interests and in the interests of this Parliament they should read the report carefuly and make a few decisions about what they want in the building. The report is fairly full but members of the Committee could work only according to their own judgment. So I think it is important that all honourable members read and consider some of the questions raised by the New and Permanent Parliament House. The first question is: What kind of accommodation does each member want? If we end up with plans that do not fit the needs of members it is our own fault. There is also the question of what kind of internal arrangement we want in the House and what kind of public access there should be for people coming into the House, bearing in mind the right of the community to come here and br heard. What kind of public halls do we want and what should be the positioning of the chambers? it is important that all honourable members pay some attention to the report and consider it earnestly. I hope we will take steps in the near future to have an open debate on it and hear expressions of opinion. T appeal to each honourable member to read the report carefully and decide whether the recommendations of the Committee are relevant to the needs of the Parliament as he sees them. It is the personal responsibility of each member to ensure that the planning for the New and Permanent Parliament House goes ahead and that it is done on a proper basis, lt is of no use grizzling afterwards. 
I just want to raise my voice on behalf of the silent minority around this place, the people who supply the resources which make this Parliament work. To start with, has anybody given any consideration whatsoever to what a series of 4-days-a-week meetings running late into the night means to all the people who make this Parliament work, including the Hansard people, the Library people and the staff everywhere else? Not a single thought is ever given to them. I raise this point particularly because T know that the Library is coming under increasing pressure, lt is highly discourteous and thoughtless to conduct business in this way. For instance, as far as the Library is concerned at present, the pressure on the resources of the research and reference service is being accentuated by 3 additional factors according to a report which was prepared recently. These include extended sitting hours, extended sessional periods, the reduction of the winter recess to about 8 weeks, and so on. That is my first point. When are we going to start considering people as human beings? If we do not care about ourselves, that is our affair. If we are idiots enough to treat ourselves like this it is perhaps our affair, although I blame the people on the other side who mutely accept the way in which the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  runs the place. 
On behalf of all those who can say nothing for themselves, let me put my plea on record and let us hope that in the future something is done to regard this place as an institution which relies on human beings for its successful function ing. The other thing that I want to say is that I believe this variation to be a breach of faith. On 3rd September we passed a motion to the effect that we would go through a cycle of 2 weeks on and 1 week off and that this cycle would come into operation on 13th October 1970. I want to make my position clear. In the initial discussions about the meetings of Parliament which were conducted by the Standing Orders Committee I thought that we ought to run a series of perhaps 4-day or 5-day weeks in a regular way. I have no objection to the Parliament meeting consistently as long as it is prepared for it and as long as people are advised of it. But only a few weeks ago after a long discussion and serious consideration of all the disabilities we decided on a free vote that we would meet on a cycle of 2 weeks on and 1 week off. I want to make it quite clear that I personally do not mind if we meet continuously. I thought that that would have been better in many ways, but I accepted the majority view. 
But here almost before the ink has dried upon the printed word, after coming back from a week's recess the message comes floating round through the system that the Parliament will not do that but will do something else, that it will meet for 4 weeks until we have completed whatever the programme is. That is another thing. Ever since 1 have been here we have been complaining about the rights of the member and saying that the backbench member is ignored and that nobody takes any notice of him. Yet we continue in this vein. Why are we going to do this? Why have we broken this resolution of the House? It has been broken because the Senate election will be held on 21st November. Why is the Senate election being held on 21st November? I understand that it is because  His  Holiness the Pope will visit Australia late in November and nobody wants the Senate election confused with that event. Why must it be held on 21st November? Somewhere in the deliberations of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Leader of the House they got out their pocketbook, or whatever shirt cuff they happened to be running the country from at that moment and they decided that they would have it then. 
I understand that the election could be held at any time until May next year, so if is not only discourteous to the people who run this place but, 1 believe, it is a breach of faith and a breach of the result of the discussions we held here. The lighthearted way in which this decision was made about the Senate election is what makes me weep. If this is the way the Government runs the Parliament, no wonder the country is a continuing mess. We have just seen the Leader of the House, the man who stands up and sneers at the idea of a 35-hour week and so on, the man who is supposed to be responsible for the development of good industrial relations in this country, handling the situation in this haphazard fashion. He hopes that he will get everything through next week. If we do not we will come back the following Monday. We will salute smartly, march off and, I have no doubt, do exactly as we are told. We have a new system here; it is not parliamentary democracy, it is the system of Sneddenism. It has nothing to do with government by discussion, it has something to do with government by confusion. Whan there is not chaos there is hiatus. We are running from week to week in a great panic wanting to get everything through. Suddenly we come to a dead halt. 
We will grind to a halt in a few weeks time and then vanish into the limbo. The Government will dive into recess taking with it, it hopes, the report of the Australian National Line before we get a chance to discuss it properly and taking with it all the other things on the notice paper, and we, the representatives of the great democracy, will slide into the limbo with them. I do not understand how we can possibly operate a country under these conditions. But I raise my voice on behalf of the Parliament itself which passed its resolution, and on behalf of the staff who are going to have continuing and heavier pressures placed upon them over the next few weeks. The members of this Parliament might well do what they like to themselves but I believe that this is a serious breach of our responsibility to the people who run the place and is not the way we conduct the government of this country. We should not allow the kind of operations that are now predicted to take place. 
There is also the matter of the 11 o'clock rule. What sort of idiots are we to keep going day after day and night after night, turning up here at 9 o'clock in the morning and going through to 2 or 3 o'clock the next morning? How can we run the country that way? How can we do our work properly? How can we apply ourselves in a properly industrious manner? If parliamentary democracy gets into continuing disrepute because of this we are the people to blame. I hope that before we get round to the discussion on the second part of this proposal, the operation of the 11 o'clock rule, all honourable members opposite will start to show some of this vigour and determination and dynamic private enterprise spirit they all talk about. When one talks to them in private conversation they are full of grief about it. They say: T wish we did not work late at night. Why do we go on like this?' I have heard the Prime Minister and other distinguished members say it in private conversation. Why do they not vote against late nights? They are private revolutionaries and public doormats. 
I am the third Opposition  speaker  in succession in this debate on what should be one of the most important social enterprises upon which this House is engaged. It has become the habit, unfortunately, to be too congratulatory towards the Ministerin.Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  for the way in which he approaches his task. I recognise some of the honourable gentleman's difficulties. I realise that in a society such as ours and operating in a political party such as his there are difficulties which it is not so easy to overcome. I am afraid that although on occasion he has bent his great talents in the general direction of the advancement of Aboriginals, the fact that he is also Minister for Social Services - in itself an awe-inspiring, compelling and absolutely overwhelming task - he is unable to devote himself exclusively to this particular subject. Occasionally he does descend to generalities and refer to some people as dogooders. I suppose that the problem he really faces is that he is crippled by the doctrines of his governmental parties. To them State rights are more important than the advancement of Aboriginal people. He finds, with the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  that the most important thing, in his opinion, about any subject is probably the protection of property rights. Also he belongs to a very conservative political group as regards most social and political exercises and therefore we make very little advance in the material welfare of the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
I think that my colleague, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  did a fine job this evening in placing before the House the difficulties that he sees in this particular field - the lack of advancement. He represents one of the largest areas of Australia in which there are large numbers of Aboriginal people who need the application of all the talents, wealth and influence of this country to the task of advancing them in the community. None of us on this side is particularly obsessed with doctrines of assimilation, integration or anything else. We believe that there is no single word to describe what we want to do for these people. Generally, we want them to do things for themselves and we want to create the climate, supply the resources, and develop an atmosphere in which they can help themselves. While we continue with the piecemeal approach that we have - that is, farming out the responsibility to organisations which belong to the States - and while we avoid our own personal, parliamentary and political responsibility there will not be any great advance. We should apply all the great experience that the Commonwealth has at its disposal as a social organisation. It has experienced officers in the Department of Social Services and in the Repatriation Department. The Government knows, or should know, that it has the expertise to handle personal problems, whether they are racial, such as some Aboriginal problems are social disadvantages, with which Aboriginals are afflicted, or economic disabilities, with which they are also afflicted. We should have the expertise and we do have the administrative competence to assist the 100,000 or so Aboriginals of Australia to equality with other Australians. 
Australia is the wealthiest country in the world in potential. It is one of the wealthiest in terms of gross national product per capita, and yet here we are discussing the allocation of some $7m. We believe that this amount is totally inadequate. We believe that we must set targets for the whole area of Aboriginal advancement, and get on with the job. I am minded to read to the House the directions given to 
Governor Phillip in 1788 when he came to Australia and set foot on these shores. They read: 
You are to endeavour by every possible means to open an intercourse with the natives, and to conciliate their affections, enjoining all our subjects to live in amity and kindness with them. And if any of our subjects shall wantonly destroy them or give them any unnecessary interruption in the exercise of their several occupations, it is our will and pleasure that you do cause such offenders to be brought to punishment according to the degree of the offence. You will endeavour to procure an account of the numbers inhabiting the neighbourhood ... 
Nearly 2 centuries later my friend, the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  has pointed to the inadequacy of statistics. Nearly 2 centuries later the Opposition has to place before the House the necessity of removing discriminatory legislation. It is time we really set out on the objectives of conciliating their affections and advancing them into the community in the way in which George III - no notable revolutionary - directed Phillip back in 1788. 
The Opposition believes that there should be targets covering the whole field of Aboriginal advancement. We should set about constructing houses for them. We should ascertain how many it is proposed to build and set a target which we can reach. The same applies with respect to education, health, social status, economic status and the abolition of discriminatory legislation. Some 13 years ago the compaign to advance the Aboriginal people of Australia by legislative change was launched in this House. In May 1957 petitions were lodged in the Parliament which were directed towards changing the Constitution to place the responsibility for the advancement of Aboriginals in this Parliament. In May 1967 the people of Australia voted by referendum on that question. It was 10 years later, and the people said emphatically: 'Get on with the job'. Almost every polling booth in Australia voted yes. In Victoria the vote was more than 90 per cent for yes. 
We have had select committees on voting rights and a select committee on the grievances of the people of Yirrkala. Most of the State parliaments have had select committees or special inquiries. We have changed all the relevant laws, but how far have we progressed in lifting the material status of Aboriginal people? The Aboriginal people of Australia arc among the most miserably housed in the world, and this is in a particularly affluent society. In education, how many of them have reached university in this last year or two? Perhaps this year at the higher secondary or tertiary level it is 9 out of the  100,000  Aboriginal people in Australia. I am not sure how many are actually at university this year. 1 think it was 5 or 6 last year and I have an idea that it is about 9 now. For the rest of the community the ratio is about I in 100. With the Aboriginal people it is about 1 in 5,000 to 7,000. There is no time for complacency. In health, infant mortality in Aboriginal people is amongst the highest in the world. 
In respect of social disabilities we need only to look at the difficulties they have in reaching the higher echelons of the Public Service. How many of them are employed in the higher levels of the Public Service? I must say this on behalf of the Minister, of whom on occasions I am fairly critical, but on other occasions. I am prepared to give justice where it is due, that one of the first steps he took was to bring Aboriginal people into his Department and give them responsible and effective positions. I hope they are given effective tasks in those positions, but at least he took the step of getting them into positions where they could work on behalf of their own people. 
As for economic status, how many of our Aboriginal people after all these years are able to stand on their own feet and lead lives such as the rest of the community lead? We believe there should be targets which are achievable and we believe that we should set out to achieve them. The honourable member for Brisbane referred to the need for pre-school education. Of course, in recent years there has been a change in the whole educational concept. One can see that this is affecting not only the Aboriginal people but the general community. In fact, pre-school education and the kind of schooling that one gets in the lower primary school are important for the whole of one's school life. In the past perhaps the whole community has neglected pre-school education as part of the field of education. In very few areas of Australia is total pre-school education available. Canberra is one of the more fortunate areas. If there is any task we should perform, we should set out to give an absolute coverage to the Aboriginal children of Australia in the pre-school area. This is vitally important. It is not only part of education but part of social development. It is the way in which they will set out upon the road. 
None of us is setting a target, one eight say, to develop the kind of person we want. This is perhaps for the Aboriginal people to develop for themselves, lt is of no good denying that they live in a community in which they are totally overwhelmed, that they have to fit into the kind of community to which we belong. But how much do we really know about the education of the Aboriginal people, whose social and economic climate is different, who live in a kind of house different from ours, and who have inherited characterisitcs about which we know so little? A lot more special research has to be done into the education of Aboriginals. What do we know about it? In the last few years a good deal of money has been spent and a good deal of intellectual effort has been displayed in this field. How much of it is flowing back into the Commonwealth departments? How much of it is then being applied in legislation such as that before us? Very little indeed. 
What is the position of the secondary school Aboriginal children? It is almost impossible for the child who lives in bad housing to cope with secondary education. Literally thousands of Australian people who happen to be Aboriginals are living in huts or shanties, and it is impossible for the children in these places to carry on with ordinary school work. I gather that in Victoria some kind of attack has been made on this problem, and I think it has been fairly effective. But this is such a minute problem in Victoria. The 3,000 or 4,000 Aboriginal children are only a handful of those children at this level of education, and there are 3 million or 4 million people in a wealthy community who support such a programme. I cannot say at this stage whether it has been absolutely successful or only partially successful. It certainly has not been a failure. 
We will not get anywhere until we can apply some equality to the treatment of the Aboriginal people throughout Australia. The same applies in the tertiary field. 
The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  who preceded me in the debate, brought before the House the position of Aboriginal housing in Australia. The honourable member for Brisbane laid out, I think in a compelling way, the necessity to set up a target. It is true that housing is one of the easiest areas in which to set up a target. It is one of the easiest areas in which to see progress. It is one of the easiest areas in which we can spend large sums of money and perhaps see not a great deal of result. My other colleagues, such as the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  who of course represents large numbers of Aboriginal people, can tell the House of the difficulties that have arisen from isolating Aboriginal communities from the rest of the community. 
During the summer recess a number of us visited areas in the Darling electorate. I pay a compliment to the honourable member for Darling for the interest he showed upon his election to this House and the gracious way in which he was able to have us received in communities in at least some of which one is not popular if one has been interested in the Aboriginal people. In places where the Aboriginals have been placed on the edge of the town in a block of houses on their own, almost invariably the housing has gradually decayed and the family life has sunk to the lowest level. When they have been moved into houses established in the general community they have adapted themselves to the standards of the rest of the community. It is true that we know very little about the problems that face an Aboriginal person moving into a modern living machine such as a house. 
These people need a great deal of personal assistance, but it has to be given with a minimum of obtrusiveness. We have to assist the Aboriginal families in such a way that they do not think they are being pushed around. From my small experience in this area I know how delicate the operation is. It is not a very easy one to perform. But the community surely has at its disposal the expertise to handle it. I believe that one of the operations the Commonwealth can undertake is to set out on a housing programme for the nation. I can think of no reason why the Aboriginal in the remotest part of Australia should not have the same effort spent on his advancement as that spent on the advancement of the person who happens to live in the heart of Melbourne, Canberra or any city of that nature. It is true that we will have different kinds of houses throughout Australia. It may well be true - indeed it probably is - that a number of Aboriginals do not want to live in the kind of houses we live in. One can visit the Yirrkala mission, as I suppose one should still refer to it, in the Northern Territory and compare the kind of housing there with the kind of housing that has been erected for the mining community. How can we tolerate this kind of discrimination? It is not direct discrimination in that nobody is doing it on purpose. On the one band extraordinary wealth is being poured into one community and in the other it is coming forward in the most humble way possible. 
Yes, separated by a wire fence. How can we tolerate this? How can we let that go on? This is part of the challenge that this Government has not faced. The honourable member for Brisbane has suggested that we should at least have a 10-year housing plan, set a reasonable target each. year, and put aside for the Aboriginal people and their housing the amount of money that we are prepared to put aside for war service homes. Is this too much to ask? We do not believe it is. 
I turn to the field of health. Some communities which as long ago as 40 years introduced such systems as the bush nursing system have reduced the infant mortality to the incredibly low figure, compared to the rest of the world, of 20 or 21 per thousand. The number is now down to 17 or 18 per thousand. How can we tolerate an Aboriginal infant mortality rate which is sometimes running at more than 10 per cent? 
In our visit to the Darling electorate, one of the things that impressed us was the work being done in this field. Let me pay a tribute to  Dr Kalokerinos,  the medical practitioner in Collarenebri, for the work be has done, some of which has been accepted. I think the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  has paid proper respect to his work. I do not know how far it has gone through the rather conservative channels with which one has to compete in the medical fraternity. The great importance of early care and the absolute importance of early nutrition were impressed upon us. All researches in recent times indicate that as a person is fed over the first few years so he will blossom as a human being. 
What made the greatest impression on my mind was the plight of a baby in the hospital at Bourke. He was born into some of the best conditions in the world and all the best facilities were available to him. But when he was to leave the hospital and go to live on the edge of the town he would probably go to the worst conditions possible. We cannot tolerate that. So we believe that it will only be when the Commonwealth is prepared to approach this problem in a personal way that every Aboriginal family in Australia will have available to it the kind of personal services that are available to, say, repatriation beneficiaries. There are a lot of deficiencies in the repatriation system. In some ways it is unduly bureaucratic. It is too legalistic. Some of this flows from the fact that people have to prove their rights. Aboriginals should not need to prove their rights. 
We should be able to set up some system under which the agencies of the Commonwealth or the State are directed in such a way that every Aboriginal family is able to take advantage of it. We should have rehabilitation training schemes. We should be able to look into the question of employment. We should be able to do something for every individual, the same as we do for the rest of the community. It is of no good saying we cannot do that. This is a community that is accustomed to having individual records, individual care and, for that matter, individual pursuit if it comes to the income tax man. So there is no difficulty. 
I do not believe there will be any real solution to the economic or social status of the Aboriginal people of Australia until we accept the salient fact that somewhere in Australia we have to establish an unalienable land rights system. This will not be easy. Some of it would be easy. I believe it would have been easy to have kept Arnhem Land inviolate. I believe it would have been easy to give the Gurindji people some rights to the land they presently Inhabit. I cannot see any difficulty m taking the necessary land from the Vestey interests. I do not want to expropriate the Vestey interests, but there is enough land there. If we want to extend an aerodrome we have no hesitation at all in taking the land, bouse and everything else of any other person in the community. But for some reason or other the Vestey interest is sacrosanct. In this instance, although I have not been there, my colleagues and a large number of other people who work with me in this field have. This is a vital psychological and emotional factor. The best description I have heard was given by the missionary at Yirrkala when a select committee of this Parliament went there some 7 years ago. I think his name was the Reverend Edgar Wells. He said: 
It is more than proprietorship; it is more than the right to hunt; the Aboriginal person gets spiritual refreshment from the land. 
We will not get anywhere until we have adopted the principle that the Aboriginal people of Australia are as entitled to their place on this land as the Indians of North America and the Maoris of New Zealand are entitled to their land. Therefore, I believe that the land question is fundamental to the whole issue. But nothing will happen until we accept full responsibility. We could easily develop an administrative system which is not centralist but is co-operative. 
There is a tremendous area of effort and dedication and goodwill throughout the community. My experience of 15 years of the Commonwealth Government and watching it at close quarters - disapproving of most of its politics but respecting the administrative capacity and competence of the country - is that it is only when we turn all these skills to this problem and put aside enough financial resources that we will bring forward the material advancement of the Aboriginal people of Australia in the way in which we have been able to advance most, but not all, of their legal rights over the last 10 or 12 years. 
I can only raise again the still small voice of those who think that the Parliament belongs not only to the Ministry but also to the members of the Parliament as a body. We have just seen, a few moments ago, the collapse of a debate on pollution because we want to get other things through, so we are told. During question time today we saw the continuing misuse of question time by Government supporters. I have just had a look through some of the copies of Hansard in front of me, and there are a number of consistent offenders on the other side of the House. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  and other Ministers take 3 to 4 minutes to answer questions. I have no doubt that we now will be asked to continue every night - perhaps through the night - day after day in order to deal with major issues of national importance so that we can get everything finished by the end of this week. 
One of the few privileges available to the honourable members on both sides of the chamber, but particularly to those on the Opposition side, is to enter into the debate on General Business, but that privilege is now being surrendered on this occasion. One can only hope that eventually honourable members opposite will remember that the rights of minorities, the right to free discussion and the opportunity to debate matters of national importance are what the Parliament is all about. I resent the way this is happening. I resent that it is happening at all. I resent the pressures - moral, psychological and otherwise - which are being applied to try to get the business through so that we can vanish into the limbo to fight Senate elections or whatever else is going to happen. I only hope that eventually we will get to the stage where the conscience of honourable members opposite will seep to the surface. 
I want to say one other thing that I resent about the management of the affairs which brings this motion forward. Last Thursday there was a vote in this House to suspend the II o'clock rule. Fifteen honourable members opposite voted that we should continue to sit after 11 o'clock at night, and then they went home and were not here for the vote which was taken at 11 o'clock or thereabouts. 1 propose to prepare a list of their names and circulate it to the people and indicate that these honourable members opposite cannot even stand for a simple principle like that. What they impose upon others they are not prepared to do themselves. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who is the principal gagger in this institution, gagged the previous debate and then went home himself before 11 o'clock. I cannot understand why we should give pairs to people like that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker-- 

Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I address my question to the Minister for the Army. Is he awake? 
1 would think that if we were sitting around a table after a series of conferences ,we would probably find there was pretty much of a consensus between the thoughts of the people who make up the Australian Labor Party's Education Committee and the thoughts expressed by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  However, in supporting the amendment we have put forward, I remind the honourable member that, by suggesting that members of Parliament ought to be put on the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education, we are not adding to the Government's control of the situation. In fact 1 should think we are keeping a closer watch upon the Government. In general, particularly in this Parliament, we have very little to do with the Government. It ignores us in large measure. I will describe later, perhaps in the Committee stage of the Bill, exactly why we want to do this. The honourable member did sm that he thought a comparison with the representation on the Council of the Australian National University would be irrelevant. 1 do not think it would be irrelevant. I would think that it is highly relevant in a community such as Canberra. 
Then I withdraw my remark. If the honourable member agrees with me on that matter he is making continuing progress in this place. We are discussing the Council of a major educational institution and one that I have no doubt will have increasing importance in the Australian education scene. No-one anywhere seems to have resolved the question of what might be called the problem of institutional control. What is a university? What is  a  college? . Is it  a  community  of  students? Is it a community  of  students and staff? Is it  a  part  of  the community? We have not resolved these questions anywhere. There have been continuing tumults in major, institutions throughout the world. Strangely enough most of them have been in universities. This is possibly because universities also attract  a  different kind of person, the structure of them is different and the freedom inside them is different from that implied in technical institutions of the sort we are speaking about today. 
I would like to see more students and staff participation on this Council. I want to see some community participation on the Council. But so far the question of where an institution  of  this sort fits into  a  community has not been resolved. It is not anybody's particular property. It does not belong to the Government, although this has been the attitude adopted by governments in the past, particularly in Australia. In looking through the directory of the Commonwealth Universities Year Book I find that throughout the British Commonwealth - to use an out of date term - generally speaking universities have been pretty restricted in the kind of council structure that they have. The Opposition takes this opportunity - and we are glad of it - to bring the whole issue out into the open. Perhaps the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  might give some thought as to a way in which this Parliament could examine this matter more thoroughly. On this side of the House our Committee proposes to examine it as thoroughly as it can. But if it were given the imprimatur of the Parliament by some sort of joint effort by both sides of this House I think that it would be a very valuable contribution to Australian education thought. 
I think I can say quite fairly that nobody in the world seems to have resolved this problem. Here in Australia we might have more chance of doing so than anybody else has and here in Canberra we probably have the ideal area in which to experiment. The characteristics of Australian education have always been unduly centralised and bureaucratic. There are lots of reasons for this. If it had not been centralised and to a large measure bureaucratic the people out in the bush would not have received the quality education to which they were entitled over the last century. On the other hand we have traditions in the universities of Australia which on the whole have had a much freer rein. They have had a different kind of council structure. It is interesting to look at the different set-ups in universities. For example, the Sydney University has on its controlling body 10 representatives of the graduates, 3 of the fellows, the Vice-Chancellor of the time, 5 representatives of the teaching staff, 1 representative of the undergraduates, and so on. Compare that, for instance, with the structure that was established in Victoria. I think the Melbourne University is much the same as the Sydney University in this regard. However, the Swinburne College of Technology, which is a very high-powered institution, does not have student representatives on the College council. The statutes of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, which is even more high-powered and much more redoubtable as an institution, prevent the academic staff being members of the governing council. However, staff and students are. allowed to attend meetings as observers. That is a fair sample of what we want to avoid. 
It is pleasing to note that at least in this case we have arrived at the conclusion that colleges of advanced education should not be treated in quite that way. Looking through the Universities' Year Book very few universities, whether they be in Montreal, whether they be some of the East African universities which are relatively new, or whether they be in India, have students or staff on their controlling bodies. Our proposals are that 2 special groups should be represented on the council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education. Firstly, the membership of this Parliament should be represented. I believe that with a smallish community such as Canberra where we have 2 major institutions, one fairly well developed and one getting off the ground, the imprimatur of this Parliament does add something to tha status of the Australian National University. If we do not think that the Canberra Advanced College of Education is entitled to this kind of consideration, I think we are writing it down. 
I do not suggest that this will seriously prejudice the progress of the institution, but 1 believe that members of a Parliament can contribute something which is not easily obtained from elsewhere. In the firs: instance, members of Parliament represent the community at large; we represent Australia at large. This is an important point. Secondly, members of Parliament are free in a large measure of some of the inhibitions that prevail in other areas of selection. No matter how highly placed a person is whom we extract from the community and place on a board such as this, it is very difficult for such a person to walk in here and say to the Minister: 'Hey, how about this?' It is the question of access which 1 believe, irrespective of the present instance, is one of the challenges of a modern democratic society. 
While there may be other ways of resolving this matter I believe that it would be to the advantage of this Parliament and the Canberra College of Advanced Education for Parliament to be represented on it. To save making another speech on the same matter during the committee stages 1 would remind honourable members that the Parliament is represented on the Australian National University; it is represented on the Institute of Aboriginal Studies; it used to be represented, but not any longer, on the Australian War Memorial; it is represented on the National Library Council and in other areas, but not many. I have found representation on such bodies the most useful and satisfying function which has been conferred upon me during my IS years in this Parliament. I would presume that this kind of employment would be gratifying to most honourable members. Therefore, I believe there is a strong case for this Parliament being represented on the council of the Canberra College for Advanced Education. 1 now would like to refer to the question of community representation. The Canberra College of Advanced Education, of course, does not belong exclusively to the Canberra community. The College would largely be a community education institution, rather more so - or it should be rather more so - than the Australian National University. But we believe that some system of electing people from the local community to this body would be of great advantage. Again, Australia has been very inhibited in this regard throughout its educational institutions. This is particularly so in secondary and primary education. I think that there should be more public participation in secondary education in Australia. I believe it would be worth while involving the community in the management of the Canberra College of Advanced Education by means of someone directly representing the community. I believe it would not be terribly difficult to have a person elected by the local community. 
I now would like to deal with the question of degrees. The Martin Committee's report suggested that colleges of advanced education should be established with degree conferring powers. Shudders of despair, horror and disgust ran through a large measure of the academic community of Australia when it heard of this recommendation. Being a product of what one might regard as the senior superior university of Australia - I refer to Melbourne University - by the grace of the Labor Party after the war - and the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  also had this singular advantage - I could not sympathise in any way with the suggestion that a university was so superior in quality to an advanced college type of establishment that we would be unable to produce the same sort of results from a college. Therefore, we are conferring a very important power upon colleges of advanced education. This is the imprimatur for entering the professions. Therefore, the people who make the decisions about what the quality is to be, the standards, the status and academic excellence have a very high trusteeship conferred upon them. 
I suppose the essence of the contract is what kind of faith you have in the staff. This goes back to some other issues that we discussed in the Parliament this afternoon. It is connected with the payment of academic salaries throughout Australia. Therefore, 2 things will decide whether the degrees of institutions such as the one we are discussing will be of any use. The first one, of course, is the standards. None of us can tell what will happen. When an architect turns up and says that he is a Bachelor of Architecture from Canberra, Melbourne or somewhere else who am I to tell what standard he is. He must be taken at the face value of his degree or the piece of paper which he has. In the long run it will be the acceptance by the com munity of the standards that are produced by the products of these institutions that will matter. 
In the last few years we have had in Australia the development of a number of new universities. One of the first of these universities to get off the ground was Monash University. Monash University was established 12 or IS miles out of the city of Melbourne on the way to Dandenong. This was out of the academic area, one might say. The first result of the establishment of this university was, of course, that people felt that you were going off perhaps to a second-rate institution; if you could not get into Melbourne University you ended up at Monash. I think Monash University is in its 10th year. I can remember the despair and dismay of a number of people around my electorate when they were told that this was the institution to which they were drafted. Knowing many of the academic staff who had been appointed to the Monash University I could only hope to convince the people I met that they would receive the same quality of education there as they would from anywhere else in Australia. Indeed, that is how it has turned out. I think there is no challenge whatsoever to the standards of Monash as a university in most of the disciplines, as far as I know. This university has had an important influence in the way many people think about new institutions. On the other hand, Monash is an interesting example of the problems of control that are faced by a completely new institution. 
This is a university which has grown and grown in the last 10 years without all of the stabilising conservatism and institutionalised establishment of places such as Melbourne and Sydney. One has to admit that Melbourne University and Sydney University have been functioning for 100 years and they have ingrained into them all of the standards and attitudes of the community. This is why they are conservative institutions. I would suggest that honourable members read articles that were published in the Melbourne 'Sun' over the last week about the control of Monash University. So, this afternoon we are taking new steps in regard to a very important new institution. I would hope that we would start to look upon the Australian Capital Territory as an important educational laboratory. Here is the opportunity of experimenting in a community which is largely self contained and which gives us the opportunity to do things that are probably not available anywhere else in Australia. Of course, the resources of the Commonwealth Government are at the disposal of this institution. 1 have no doubt that it will be one of the most richly endowed institutions of this sort in Australia. Nobody will begrudge it that. I only hope that eventually we will reach the stage where all Australians, wherever they are, will receive equal educational effort. I hope all honourable members opposite will give serious consideration to the proposals that the Opposition will put forward in the Committee stages. 
First of all, I think that the analogy of the Canberra College of Advanced Education and the Australian National University is fair enough. The Australian National University is part of Canberra, part of the national capital, established for Australia. The Canberra College of Advanced Education is a part of Canberra and it is part of Australia. No matter what we say or do. it is going to become, in a certain measure, a national institution. One cannot just look at the Australian scene and divorce Canberra from it as a piece of the community on the one hand and as the national . capital on the other. This Parliament is responsible for Canberra. Do we not have the ACT Committee? Do we not keep an eye on Canberra? Is Canberra not tha responsibility of a Minister of this Parliament? Canberra is our responsibility, it exists for the Parliament. 
Canberra has been developed by Parliament. Therefore we have a different relationship to Canberra from, the ones we have to Launceston, Hobart or Melbourne. 1 expect various honourable members to be invited to join various college councils and university councils around Australia, as some of them do in their own right. A former honourable member for New England was either the Chancellor of the New England University or played a part in the formation of that University. In a very much more humble way, I am the  chairman  of a high school advisory council in my electorate. There are various functions that honourable members can perform. 
The Canberra College of Advanced Education is our baby, we might say. Therefore I think that this Parliament ought to be involved with it. On the other hand, 1 suppose I must refer to this delicate, parliamentary, ministerial question of protocol. It is true that the Opposition did not consult the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  beforehand. Perhaps it is an error in the way this place works. But the Minister did not consult us either. I have been here long enough to know- that this is a fundamental difficulty and therefore one is inclined to accept it. But I wish that we could reach the stage where ideas could flow across the floor of the House and sometimes be accepted. This again is an error of structure. For instance, if standing committees had been appointed to inquire into the business on the notice paper this matter might well have come before the House in a different way. The consensus between the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  and members of the Opposition might have reached the point where he advanced right up to the gate of true justice. So we put forward this serious proposal. Both the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and I represent this Parliament on a statutory authority. I believe that we are gainfully employed there and that we have learnt something from it. I am certain that it is a useful function for a parliamentarian to perform. So, I support the amendment that has been put before the House. 
I would like to add a word to this debate. One of the points that I made earlier was that Canberra in some ways is a special community. We ought to use it as a laboratory on this instance. It is an area in which the community is more or less self contained. We can get at it in one go. The people are intensely interested in almost every area of social enterprise. But when, on the other argument, we pose the question of putting members of Parliament on the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education, it is said: 'Well, it belongs to Canberra'. So, when we suggest: 'Let us put some local Canberra people on it', we find that for some strange reason they have some disability which does not fit them to become the equivalent of, say, our colleague the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who has been whipped from the Bar, lobbed in here and is now capable and competent to administer Australian education and science. There is some mystical difference between him and the rest of us and between him now and when he was an ordinary citizen back home. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  would not even put him on the local kindergarten association apparently from what he had to say about ordinary citizens in these matters. Surely the principles that we apply to ministerial representatives as the representatives of elected people should be applied in this instance also. If we could only start, as my friend from Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  suggests, and set up attitudes and systems which could flow throughout the rest of the community, we would be doing a great service to Australian education. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr  Beazley's) be agreed to. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  has raised some important matters for, 1 should think, public debate, academic consideration and so on. They are subjects which perhaps we ought to debate more freely and which ought to be thrown into the educational arena more often. I question 1 point which he made. He asked: Who can benefit most from education? So far as I can tell from recent reading and recent research, it appears that no-one is quite sure who will benefit most from any form of education. We do not know how a person who performs in a certain way at the age of 17 years will perform at the age of 22 years. We do not know what kind of talent lies wasting in the minds of so many children who have left school. All these questions remain unanswered. For myself, I would be very reluctant to accept a special streaming for gifted children or anything of that sort, although I think you can make a strong case for the provision of specialised treatment inside schools. These are questions which I suppose have not been resolved satisfactorily in most parts of the world. 
Turning to the Bill that is before us - and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has placed an amendment before the House in relation to the Bill - this is an important new venture. One might say that the Education Research Bill is almost a landmark in the educational attitudes of this Government. It is a new venture to that extent. What we have to understand is the importance of Commonwealth initiative in this field. We are not playing for small stakes. Education is a tremendous undertaking. I think that approximately 100,000 employees are involved in education in Australia. That covers the teaching staffs and everybody else involved in education. There are between 2i million and 3 million children. Education costs about $ 1,200m a year. Some 10,000 buildings are occupied for educational purposes. Some of these buildings are very expensive and some are very humble. 
So the task of the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education, if it is going to gather the threads of thinking in the community and point them in the direction of effective research in education, is awe inspiring. I wonder whether the  Committee  has been provided with the necessary machinery. I wonder whether the beginning is not too tentative. We on this side of the chamber know quite well some of the personnel on the Committee, and we would respect all of them for their academic attainments. But there might be some narrowing of the field. Are there on the Committee enough practical people from the various areas of education? Of course, we could probably broaden such a committee in an almost limitless way, when we consider the whole breadth of education. My complaint is that the Commonwealth approaches this matter not so much with an effective responsibility of its own but rather by scattering largesse. It leaves it for somebody else to get on with the job. This has been the way in which the Commonwealth has approached education ever sinceI came to this Parliament and probably before then, too. 
The Committee's powers are purely advisory. When my friend the honourable member for Denison was referring to admission to universities he mentioned,I think,  Chairman  Mao. Admission to the research system will be on the commendation of  Chairman  Nigel in this regard, and he will not have much chance to initiate anything himself. The Committee is a purely advisory one. It will gather in those things which are happening, it will look at them and it will say: 'We will support this one and we will not support that one.' We in this House will not know who has applied for admission. We will know only the final results from a kind of perfunctory report which often comes to this House from this area. We believe that the Committee ought to be given a statutory life of itsown. Of course, the important criticism of this Government's attitude to education at the Commonwealth level is that it farms out responsibility to somebody else.It waits for somebody else to take the initiative somewhere. The result then flows through the system. It seeps through and it is sieved along the line somewhere. We pick it up and say: 'We will give that one a little encouragement.' 
Australian educational research, like educational research throughout the world, is pretty perfunctory, but we are probably the worst of the lot.I have gathered a few comments from people who ought to know something about these matters. The comments come from the universities magazine of this year. One comment was: 
. our knowledge of the teaching process remains fragmentary, and asurvey of the literature on higher education in Australia reveals that teaching has been a relatively neglected area of research Perhaps the large number of variables which must be considered has discouraged such studies. 
Let me refer to some comments made by Professor  Sir Hugh  Ennor when he was speaking at a memorial seminar on Australian education. He said: 
It is a simple enough exercise to determine the size of the education industry but it is a much more difficult task to get an accurate picture of the research effort 
I think this supports the view that this Committee ought to be given some kind of life of its own in which it can gather these strands together and take some executive initiative.  Sir Hugh  Ennor went on to say: 
In 1966,as near as I can determine, there were about 300 people at the professional level, engaged in educational research. 
He pointed out that about half of them were engaged in part time operations in the field and then went on to say:  . . 80-90 per cent of educational research (in Australia) is carried out by the State Departments of Education, university Departments of Education and by post-graduate students working in these latter departments. The remainder of the research is covered mostly by the Australian Council for Educational Research and to a lesser extent by other agencies such as the small research group in my own Department in Canberra. 
We want to see a little more effective research group established in that Department in Canberra. Of course education departments have a limited view of education in many regards. Their job is to try to get the most effective use of the resources at their disposal. Education departments would often be fairly narrow on this but this is no reflection upon the calibre of the people involved in the field. What has the Australian Council for Educational Research to say on this? These are the President's views as expressed in his 1968 Frank Tate Memorial Lecture: 
The conclusions, then, arising from my quick summary of the position are: 
that there is an acute need for research into many problems in Australian education: 
that the existing facilities, though soundly based and full of possibilities, are quite inadequate to cope with the many problems awaiting solution: 
that the finance available for educational research is also quite inadequate if any progress is to be made in the solution of the many problems confronting educationists: 
that there is a serious shortage in the numbers of educators trained in the techniques of research. 
The  President  of ACER made some suggestions about the way we should handle the problem.I do not believe that the tentative steps we are taking here tonight will do enough in this direction. 
What is needed? As  Sir Hugh  Ennor points out Australia has been very effective in research in the biological sciences, in the physical sciences and in certain areas of government but in educational research we are almost non-starters. There are lots of things we could do at the Commonwealth level. I am one of those who have been campaigning in this Parliament for a long time to get the Commonwealth to take direct steps, to take the initiative and to get on with the job itself. I think that we should examine some of the things that have occurred in the United States of America which has an even more complicated federal scheme than we have in some ways. For instance there is the Educational Research Information Centre, commonly known as ERIC in the American fashion, from which anybody can retrieve research and which of course embodies all kinds of systems for recording, collating and co-ordinating research. 
We want research done in new teaching methods. We want curricula research done. We want to know more about the teaching process and bow knowledge is formed. We want to know a good deal about the economics of education. This is a pretty important field. We want to know whether we are getting full value for our $1 No-one wants to introduce a system of slavery into our education system, but we should know how much we are spending in the various areas of education. What is its productivity capacity? When we are talking about $ 1,200m and when we think of the countless thousands of buildings that are used and all the other capital works involved it is terribly important to understand the full economics of education. Can we take up the issue that was raised earlier tonight? Just what is the significance of the abolition of university fees? Is it just simply a matter of the abolition of the $15m that might be collected in university fees? ls the flow-back through the family that gets advantage out of that, whether the family is rich or poor, enough to warrant it? For my part 1 believe that as a social exercise it is; but what are the economic consequences? 
Today is an important constitutional day in the history of the Australian Parliament We have been discussing 4 Bills this afternoon. One Bill was the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill, another dealt with universities, one with research - which is the one we are now debating - and one referred to Canberra. This happened in the institution which for so long was told it had no constitutional responsibility for edu cation. I suppose thai it was the high water mark when these Bills came into this House at the one time. Therefore I hope that this House will give serious consideration to the amendment now before us. The fact that we are taking some steps in this direction is important. I hope that the House will give earnest consideration to our proposition that this research unit should become a statutory body of its own, as was outlined by the honourable member for Fremantle, and that the Commonwealth should exercise the greatest initiative. 
There is only one other comment t would like to make at this stage. It is an interesting commentary on the way this Parliament and this society and the political parties look at education. This afternoon we had the lone Horatius keeping the bridge on behalf of the Government parties, our friend the honourable member for Denison. He is a new member in this House but at least he has battled on manfully steeped in conservatism as he appears to be. He could have done with a little more support. All those people who want thousands of millions of dollars poured into wool, wheat, airports and so on might have given some thought to what ought to be done for the young people of Australia and our lagging and staggering education system. , 
by leaveI move: 
That regulation 2 of the amendments of the National Service Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1970, No. 116, and made under the National Service Act 1951-1968, be disallowed. 
The general position of the Australian Labor Party regarding the National Service Act and the national service system is well known. Although it is not the time to canvass that subject, it is worth while considering some of the principles that have to be implemented by regulation, of which the national service system is one. This afternoon we are faced with the continuing search by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  and his Department for an equitable answer to a totally inequitable system. One might say that it is the impossible search for the squaring of the circle. We see another instance of it this afternoon. 
On the surface the implications of this fairly simple and reasonable looking amendment lead one to say: 'Perhaps in the first instance I ought to support it as it stands.' That brings me to the point about the method by which this House examines the regulations. As a general rule, in the ordinary course of events, day by day, they come to honourable members as they are churned out by the administrative machinery. They are examined, on some occasions, in a cursory way by honourable members. In other cases they are given a thorough examination. Unfortunately, it is often left to the other House through its system to give a thorough examination to the ordinances and regulations. This House should examine that system very thoroughly. The Senate seems to be creeping in front of us in matters of parliamentary government. 
As is the custom with most legislation, the power to make regulations concerning the national service system is conferred upon the Minister and the Department. In this system we are dealing with people in the absolute. One might say that the end result is the sacrifice of some person for the nation's cause. Therefore we ought to limit as absolutely as possible the discretionary power of the Department wherever it Rows through the national service system. We. on this side of the House find ourselves in a dilemma about this. We have on the one hand the natural disinclination to have anything to do with the national service system and, on the other, if the system is to be altered to include or exclude somebody we want to see the contradictions removed. In this instance an examination of the system leads one to believe, and has led my Party to decide, that these regulations ought to be opposed. The regulations provide for a widening of the dragnet so that it can pick up a few more people. It might not pick up very many people. It might not have been worth the administrative exercise in the Department, ft might not even gather in another 6, 8, 10 or 15 people to the armed services, reluctant as they may be to serve. 
For some people these regulations will lead to more worry, more hardship, more doubt and more concern. Therefore the Opposition believes that they ought to be rejected. More people are going to be upset. A handful of students are going to be picked up by this system in which so many have escaped. I think it ought to bc salutary for us in the Parliament to consider what we are doing in that regard. The Minister has not told us how many people will be caught by the dragnet as a result of this - we will not pick up the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  - when so many have escaped already. Of course this is part of the inequitable nature of the whole system. Under the national service system 536,358 have registered up to 30th June this year. Over half a million young men have registered to serve. To that date only 43,061, much under 10 per cent, have been called up. 
The system of deferments leaves open areas of discretion to the Ministry. One of the problems 1 pose to the Parliament in this regard is the mystery about administrative instructions. What kind of administrative instructions go forth? Under what instructions are the departments operating? The Opposition is not brought into enough of this in this Parliament, in any area. I am not making a particular criticism in this instance of the Minister for Labour and National Service, although when we put to him through his office a request that some officer from his Department should come before our party committee, and explain exactly what was meant by the 2 complicated amendments that were before us, he was reluctant. I am not saying that he would have refused in the end, but we made a request that an officer be made available before the party committee to examine the 2 paramount questions involved in these regulations. The first one was with regard to the Minister's discretionary power on conscientious objection, which was discussed yesterday in the other place. The other one concerned the technicalities involved in the regulations. 
I have been in this Parliament for 15 years. This is only the second time I can recall that any Minister has felt inhibited or doubtful about letting officers of his Department come before us to discuss these matters. So I lay my small protest on the table in this regard. The other point is, of course, the complicated legalism that flows from a consideration of regulations. Most of the members of this Parliament are fairly literate. Many of them have had a good deal of experience in handling legislation. But I defy honourable members, and anybody else for that matter, to get hold of the National Service Act, the National Service Regulations and the amendments to them and make head or tail of them without anything less than a lengthy examination. We must resolve this question of the complicated legalism that flows as much from the power to make regulations and the method by which they are made as from the law itself. 
We are considering here the question of student deferment. Students are a special body in the community in this regard. They get special rights because they are students. There are those, of course, who say that because they have special rights then the community has a right to impose special obligations upon them. In the situation of national service as it is presently implemented we on this side of the House must reject that. It seems to me there are 3 issues involved in the general question of student deferment. First of ail, there is the question of social equity, ls it right and proper that students should be deferred when others have to make the sacrifices? The other, and the one to which we on this side of the House would pay more attention, is: What is the position of the individual who is being caught up in the system as far as individual benefits are concerned? 1 suppose if we were in a state of war the thing we would place first would be the needs of the armed services, in particular the Army. I think it is the one we ought to put last in this particular situation but I have a feeling from questions that have been asked in this House and answers that have been given to them in the past few weeks, that it is the needs of the armed Services that are likely to come first. 
What is happening here today is that the Regulations are being changed, as far as I can determine from an examination of them and through consultation with others, in such a way that those students who until now have been able to remain undergraduates until they were 26 years of age, and by so doing pass through the system without being caught for national service, will now be caught up in the dragnet. What we are facing this afternoon is: Do we want this handful of people, who so far have been able to pass through the system and perhaps escape national service, caught and brought in? We on this side of the House oppose the national service system root and branch and therefore we do not want anybody else brought in. We therefore oppose it from that standpoint. 
But while we are considering this question this afternoon I think the House ought to examine the general question of students. We all find ourselves in what might be called a liberal dilemma, a small 1' liberal dilemma. I do wish the Party would change its name to something like Conservative' 'Reactionary* or whatever is the most appropriate nomenclature for the moment. So when 1 use the word 'liberal' it has nothing to do with the Australian political party which has the hide, the brass, the conceit, the arrogance and the cheek to opt for that name for itself. We would all say: 'Here is a universal system and everybody must be in.' Therefore, if everybody has to be in there are no deferments for anybody - students, hardship cases or anybody else. 
We do not belong to that kind of community. There will always be compassionate considerations anc! hardship considerations. Of course, we could do something such as, 1 understand, the Swiss do. In Switzerland all those who do not serve have to pay an extra tax of some sort. But we do not opt for that either. So we have a situation in which we have decided that for the benefit of the individual, and probably more likely for the benefit of the community, the students ought to be able to complete their qualifications - get them out of the road - and then we will pick them up. There can be a lot of arguments against any sort of student deferment. I am not putting those arguments forward but they do highlight the inequitable nature of the whole system which is now before the House. For instance, as far as statistics show at the moment, and statistics are notably inadequate in all these areas, probably less than 2 per cent of sons of working class people get to a university and only about 10 per cent of university students come from working class areas, lt would be of great advantage to us, for instance, to know how many students per head of population in the universities of Melbourne come from the municipalities I represent, Brunswick and Coburg, and how many from, say, Balwyn and Kew. The odds are that there are more students from Balwyn and Kew in the university and more young men from Brunswick and Coburg in the Army because few of them can be deferred as students. 
 Yes, as a general rule they would be in the deferment bracket. The other point is that when we start deferring students we are probably starting to defer the fittest people, the ones from the most prosperous homes, the ones who could be most useful to the Army. So I am trying to highlight the difficulties that the whole system imposes, the continuing contradiction between values, human rights and the power of the State and the mystiques that have developed around the national service system. 
This afternoon we are deliberating upon the proposition that the last few young people who have managed to get through the system because they have managed to remain undergraduates until they are 26 years old shall be caught up and shall not escape the Liberal Party's national service dragnet. This question of deferments of course also involves the personal discretionary decision of the Minister. This again, I believe, is something we ought to reject as much as possible when it comes to questions of such overwhelming importance to the very lives of the young people who are caught up in the national service system. At the moment it is difficult to know how many deferments have been granted. The Minister has not told us, although he did say this in his comments when he issued these Regulations: 
There are some men who are liable to render service and not eligible for extended deferment but who might avoid call up until they pass the age of 26 when liability for service would cease. In the majority of cases they have actively sought to evade their obligations under the Act. The Regulations have been amended so they will be liable to serve until the age of 30. 
The Minister has not told us how many of these people there are. The person who is still an undergraduate at the age of 26 is, of course, an exceptional person, lt is a very difficult proposition in these days, the way university quotas operate, to remain an undergraduate until you are 26 and also to have passed through the national service system. Therefore I think that this particular regulation ought to be rejected because it is of minute military importance and very little social significance to pick up another few people and so expand the national service dragnet. Therefore we on this side of the House believe that the regulation ought to be rejected. There are some other matters that are, of course, important when we are considering this question of the liability of anybody to serve after he reaches the age of 26. By the time men reach the age of 26 the odds are that they are married. In all probability they have a family, have launched upon a career and have started to become important social units. So not only are we disrupting the man's personal life, we are affecting his family, the work he does, his career and the society in which he is starting to play an active part. We are probably giving over to the Army people who are completely incompatible with a peace time army. It must be a strange and odd experience for a man of 26, now married with a home of his own, launched on a career and probably getting his foot somewhere up the ladder of the Public Service, the teaching service and so on, to go off to Puckapunyal. The young men there are only 5 or 6 years younger than he is but all their experience in life is completely different. 
That is right. Our war time experience is no example because there we had a total community involvement. I believe that to concentrate any effort upon trying to pick up more people at the age of 26 is socially undesirable, militarily unnecessary and, of course, is contributing to the inequities of the whole system. While we on this side of. the House appreciate the administrative dilemma that the Government is in and that the Government wants to close up every hole in the system we believe there are more important issues at stake. Therefore as this regulation expands the system in that it captures a few more people and puts them into the system, it serves no useful purpose and should be rejected. 
The Minister for National Service  (Mr Snedden)  has avoided all the social issues and social implications which have been placed before the House. He managed to pick up an interjection from one of my colleagues and he then made- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! Is the honourable member for Wills speaking in reply? 
Yes, unless there is someone else who wishes to speak. 

 - Mrs Blackburn was, I suppose, my most distinguished constituent. I knew her very well over the 15 or 16 years in which I became active in the areas in which she lived. She was one of those whom people such as myself were inclined to look upon as immortal. It was a shock to discover that a vigorous and vital person who only a few months before had been showing an active interest in all of the affairs in which she had been interested all of her life had suddenly passed on. It was difficult to believe that this was a woman of about 82 years. I wish to place on record my personal tribute, and 1 am sure the tribute of all of those who were associated with the things in which she played a very active and effective part over a very long lifetime. 

 Her name and that of her husband are, of course, a part of Australian Labor Party history. During the First World War and in the 1920s her husband established a good deal of the philosophy of the Party.  Mrs Blackburn  was a woman of great conscience and personal integrity. Under no circumstances would she surrender any of the principles in which she believed. In fact, in the 1930s she resigned from, the Australian Labor Party because she wished to continue work with one of the. international peace movements. During the time I knew her she retained her active and effective interest in the Women's Christian Temperance Union, the Women's International. League for Peace and Freedom, the Save the. Children Fund and, as the Prime Minister mentioned, the Aborigines Advancement League and the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aboriginals and' 'Torres Strait Islanders, of which she was a founder. We are talking of a person who was the founder of what I think' ; was a fairly important national organisation at a time when she was practically into her seventies. 
In her local area, kindergartens and such instrumentalities found her interest effective. She was the originator of some of them even as recently as 2 or. 3 years ago. I believe she was a woman, who was able to mix very effectively in the rough and tumble of politics in the community 'which I represent. When she won the seat in 1946, it was almost a revolution. She was one of the few independents to enter this- Parliament, and was a woman at that. Therefore,' she carried with her a great capacity and integrity and was a representative of Australian womanhood. I have just glanced at Hansard to see some of the things that she: said in the last term she was here. During the Budget debate of 1949 T see that, amongst the things she had to talk about, she said: 
A pensioner cannot live in. any. sort of decency today on £2 2s 6d a week. 
She raised a question of the rights of the Aboriginal people. When we turn to the Hansard index we find that  Mrs Blackburn  is recorded there probably more often than a good number of other members of this Parliament. As a parliamentarian she was effective; as a leader of women's rights and movements in Australia, she was more than effective. As one of those very distinguished people,  Mrs Blackburn  is a loss to the community. I express my deepest sympathy to her family and her distinguished scientist sons, and I hope that this House will at some future date foster the membership here of more representatives of her sex. 
I gather that the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  is displeased with the approach of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Bowen)  to this matter and, if that is the case, I support him. As far as one can judge, this approach to student representation on the Council of the Australian National University is just another piece of legislative humbug. It seems to me that this is a simple and straightforward matter where the most logical response would be to advance student representation. However, with what should be the least expensive piece of policy to implement the Government still fumbles the ball. The issue, it seems to me, is: What is a university? What is it about? What are the criteria upon which it functions? A university is a partnership between the community and the student body which also is an important part of the community. 
At present in Australia about 1 per cent of the population are students of Australian universities. An increasing percentage of students are able to take their full place in politics in this country. I think that the son of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  is a senior officer of the Australian Labor Party in Western Australia. Many students stand for Parliament. Many of them are active members of political institutions yet, in respect of the simple issue of their having some effective say and representation on the bodies which control their own future, they are not to be trusted with more than one representative in 30 or 40. I believe it is nonsense that at this stage in a country such as Australia, in a community which in the past has always established fairly advanced attitudes on what representation means - votes for women and so on - we are being more conservative than most other countries. Here we are proposing a continuing hierarchical structure. 
The honourable member for Warringah spoke about the governing and the governed. I do not think that is what a university is about. Admittedly there are highly specialised people who are supposed to train people in various ways in the technical faculties - tradesmen in medicine, dentistry, architecture and so on - but in the real fields of education, in the humanities, a different kind of thinking altogether must be produced. Therefore the. professorial body - the teaching body- is a specialised kind. Probably in this area of education, as much as any other - perhaps more than in some others - the student body is a very important part of society. It has been trained to take a more important and effective role in the community than most others. But we have no trust in it whatsoever. 
We are to carry out a revolution in the Australian National University. On a body of some 40 or 41 we are now to have a couple of students representing the student body. I do not know what the Minister fears. Is he afraid that these 2 or 3 students will overrun the whole system? Is he afraid that they will take over? Of course, this is nonsense. I believe it is time that we did something such as has been done overseas. Take what has been done in Britain as an example. In that country a select committee made up of a standing convocation of people concerned, with education has been set up to examine the way in which students must be fitted more effectively into university bodies. The legislation now before us is a pretty fair demonstration of the continuing conservatism of Australian education and particularly of the way it is administered from this place. Of course, nothing demonstrates the conservative nature of Australian education and university management better than a glance at the representation of students on the governing bodies of Australian universities. According to last year's report of the Vice-Chancellor's Committee, Adelaide University, as becomes that stronghold of establishmentism and conservatism, does not have student representation. The Australian National University will have 2 student members out of a total membership of  41.  The Flinders University will have 1 representative - a big advance. James Cook University in Queensland will have 2 students who will be admitted as observers. We would not want the danger of letting these students have a vote. It is heartening to see that La Trobe University and Melbourne University - the stronghold of freedom, progress and the militant approach to these things - have 4 student members. Monash University has only a couple. Other universities such as New England, New South Wales and so on have single representatives. In fact, as I think my colleage from the other side pointed out, representation of this sort is bare))' representation at all. Even the most skilled of us here, even the most hardened sufferers under majority domination, find it difficult to have an effective say when there is only one of you and 40 against you. 
I think we ought to put ourselves in the place of the student. No matter how much the student is vigorous and dynamic in his student body, when he turns up in the council of the university he is amongst people many for whom he has a great deal of respect for their intellectual capacity and many of whom be may regard as unduly conservative. However, he is bound to have some sort of respect for them. How can such a student get the views of bis student body across? We are speaking of student bodies of Australia representing 100,000 students. In Australia we have about IS or 20 student representatives on the governing bodies. It is worth while putting on record what the students of the Australian National University had to say in talking about what the council itself had said. I would not regard the council as being the most revolutionary, militant and progressive body in Australia either. The students said: 
But the rebuff is seen within the University as even more important than the mere rejection of further student representation, though the seriousness of this is great enough. The whole so-called autonomy' of the University is held up to ridicule by this decision. 
They went on to say: 
A decision such as this is not likely to convince students that their demands are being sufficiently heeded. Indeed it adds to the  feeling  that the Government is willing to go out of its way to slap students in the face, and the University is not strong enough to give more than token resistance. 
I would like the Minister to explain exactly upon what criteria he is operating when he says: 'J know better than the council of the university'. Of course, a number of members of the council are representatives of the Ministry - they are appointed by the Ministry. What are the great intellectual attainments, achievements and capacities of the Minister who says: 'I know better than all of this council'. I do not have the names of the members of the council with me now. While the Minister has established his reputation in some fields 1 doubt whether even he would claim that he has this final touch over all of the assembled body of which 2 members of this House are members. It will he worth while the Minister explaining why he or perhaps his advisers in the Department of Education and Science  -  I am not too sure whether he is the creature of his advisers or whether they are the implementers of his policy - have followed this course. However, someone along the line has said, and the Minister is prepared to implement it, that what the council of the university has said cannot be adopted. 
said earlier that Australia has been more conservative in this aspect than have representative bodies overseas. The House of Commons Select Committee on Education and Science examined this question and came down heavily in favour of increased student representation. That Committee said that student representation must be accepted. The Committee said: 
Our institutions of higher education must recognize that changed circumstances brought about by their own expansion, changes in society itself and the need to question long-standing assumptions, should compel a ready and sympathetic response to proposals for reappraisal and reform. 
Later it stated:  lt also supports student representation on academic government bodies, as opposed to consultation, offers warnings about student unrest over examinations and a looming crisis over residential accommodation. 
It would appear to me that in this issue alone, with all of the evidence of unrest throughout universities of the world, and from which unfortunately Australian universities have not been free, we are ignoring the opportunity to bring the student body into the area where, through consultations, they can be made to feel part of the apparatus - part of the machinery. 
In America, of course, the situation is the same. A report which appeared in the Washington Bulletin' stated: 
University governance systems should be reformed to increase participation of students and faculty in the formulation of university policies that affect them. But universities cannot be run on a one man, one vote basis without participation of all members on all issues. 
I would think that many senior secondary schools would have more student participation in the management of the day-to-day running of the institution through perfect systems and the like - this has been the case over the last 3 or 4 years and particularly during the last 2 - than is the case in universities. We are talking of people who are of a mature age; people who can be asked to accept all kinds of responsibilities in the community. Yet we think it would be dangerous to have 3 or 4 such people on a council of 40. I do not believe that the Minister feels this way at all. I would be very interested to get into the back of his mind or the minds of his advisers to see whether they think this is good enough. i believe that the under-graduate student body of the Australian National University now numbers between 3,000 or 4,000. In fact, a couple of representatives of the nature proposed in the legislation is almost non-existent representation. I would again make a plea, as has my friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  that part time and external students ought to have some say in the system. A university is terribly important to the people who go through it. A remarkable and alarming number drop out for all sorts of reasons. They do not see the point of it. Therefore, participation in a representative capacity is more than just where it fits into the academic scheme. We have relations between the student body and the general management. Of course, management is supposed to use the term 'the government and the governed'. One has to accept the fact that there are some people who will have to run such an institution. It is said that this institution does not belong to the students because the community itself subsidises the university system very heavily. Therefore the system of the relationship between the students, the staff and the whole body of the university has to be developed. Representation is a very important feature of our life. It is the way in which we manage most affairs. Participation is another important feature. It is unfortunate that the House has not had a greater opportunity to look at this in depth. With the increasing role of universities in Australian life and with the increasing number of students and the disappointment of people who cannot get into universities this may well be another field in which the House could do something such as was done by the House of Commons when it set up a select committee to examine this matter. 
I am critical of the Minister in this regard. 1 believe he is being unduly conservative. In fact, he has turned back to feudal times. He is being quite feudal about this. Even 300, 400 or 500 years ago universities were a little more democratically controlled although discipline then was perhaps a little more rigorous when one did break the rules. I believe that we must find some way in which more people can be brought into this. There has to be a great deal more thinking. Perhaps the precedent established by the House of Commons might be well worthy of consideration. A lot of people have had a lot to do with universities in one way or another either as students or as people who pay for students or people who have been members of the council. Some members of this House have been on university staffs. I am sure that they could bring some expertise to bear from which even the Minister, steeped as he is in the exaltation of his own position, might gain something. 
The amendment moved by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  makes one inclined to ask what is the use of the operation at all? About 12 months ago the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  who was acting for the Minister for Immigration, tabled in this House a piece of legislation to cover migrant education. This evening the Minister for Immigration has told us that there was no need for the legislation because he had proceeded with the granting of money and so on without legislative authority. Now, 11 or 12 months later, we are changing the date to fit the legislation into an Act of the Government. All I put before the chamber is that this is a fairly cavalier way in which to approach the authority of this Parliament. 
My understanding was that some of the non State schools in Victoria received their dividends from this legislation faster than schools in the State school system. Is this because there is a more direct line of communication between some of the non State schools and the department administering the legislation at this end? If this is so is the bureaucracy of the Victorian department slowing things down? If there is some reason I would like to know what it is. If this in fact is what happens I think the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  ought to take steps to see that there is no disadvantage placed upon the State system because some of that State's bureaucracies are slow moving. 

 - Mr Chairman, I wish to answer something that was said by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr 
Lynch). He implied that he had given us an opportunity to do something about this matter. I said that it was 10 months or 11 months ago since this proposal was introduced. The figures that I quoted in this respect were ones that I obtained from the schools. The letter that I have in my hand is dated 12th June 1970. It commences: 'In response to the information you request on May 28th . . . ' It is 8 months or 9 months since we on this side of the chamber took an active interest in getting information and ascertaining attitudes. To produce the Bill here after all this delay in my view demonstrates rather a dilatory approach to the matter. The fact is that the Parliament should have discussed this proposal when the whole thing was initiated. It is all right for the Minister to act as if he owns the country and can distribute largesse as he wishes but Parliament should discuss the matter first. 
This is one of the few occasions on which we are able to have a fairly close debate upon the migration system. We face the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  across the House. He. of course, has one of Australia's largest social adventures on his hands. I am one of those who spend a lot of their time trying to prevent him deporting people. I suppose his most abysmal failure is that he did not deport the English cricket team at about 1 1 o'clock this morning. On the other hand, he has at his disposal a very effective Department.  believe that the general approach we have made to immigration has been fairly effective but that our most miserable failure has been in the way we have approached particularly :he children who have arrived here as a result of the migration scheme. 
How tough can life be for a person who arrives here from Greece, Turkey, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Yugoslavia or any part of southern Europe? They are perhaps a little more disadvantaged than those from northern Europe. When they arrive here the parents will almost certainly be employed in occupations in which salaries and wages are at a low level. Secondly, they will probably start their life here in a very crowded suburban street where life will be not tough but certainly not gentle and not very pleasant. When the children turn up at the school they will find that all the odds are against their learning English. In school they will not be associating with people who speak very good English. In the school grounds of many of the inner suburban areas it is not English that one hears; it is strine of the roughest sort. So the child starts miles behind. I believe that the tone of our amendment is correct in that it deplores the fact that it has taken all these years for the Government to do something about migration education. 
I want to challenge for a moment the remarks that the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  made in reply to my colleague, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  The honourable member for Burke remarked that it was not a serious disadvantage to many adults not to be able to speak English. 1 believe that that is true. The honourable member for Cook took him to task about that. It is possible to live in Brunswick or Coburg and never use a word of English. All the facilities there are available to a migrant.  His  neighbours probably speak the same language as himself. At his work place he can get along with his native language, as he can in the shops. Of course, this is a serious disadvantage to those who want to learn English. This is a problem of some magnitude. 1 believe the approach to it here this afternoon by the Minister and by the Department is still very perfunctory indeed. 
While I am on my feet I want to pay a tribute to the Australian community. 1 believe it is a remarkable social achievement that so many hundreds of thousands of people from other countries have been able to move into our community in the way they have without creating great social tensions. I represent one of the most heavily concentrated areas of new Australians or migrants, call them what we will. I sense that there is very little social tension. The Australian community has adopted an attitude of great maturity and has received the migrants to its bosom in a very hospitable way, and not often enough does the community get this tribute paid to it. 
I want to concentrate on the question of school children and what should be done in the schools and for the schools. This problem is contemporaneous with the migration system. It has existed since the inception of the migration scheme. From the day the first ship arrived with perhaps 1,200 or 1,500 migrants on it, of which perhaps 300 or 400 were of school age, the problem started to expand, and it has been aggrevated by every shipload and every aeroplane load that has arrived since. Now 22 or 23 years after the beginning of this scheme we are taking up some of the challenge although. I believe, still in a very perfunctory way. There can be no denying that immigration is an absolute Commonwealth responsibility. It is the responsibility of nobody else, lt is not good enough for the Minister to pour literally tens of thousands of migrants into Victoria, let them try to survive under the tender mercies of the Bolte Government and then say that it is a State matter to supply education and hospitals and to build the roads. The Commonwealth ought to have long since accepted a more direct responsibility, particularly as far as education is concerned. 
I want to outline the position in my own electorate. As honourable members may be aware, I represent the suburb'! of Brunswick and Coburg in Melbourne. They are both highly concentrated. They are not slum areas in the strict sense but they are very densely populated. For instance, Brunswick has a population of 52.000 people in about 2,600 acres or about 4 square miles. According to the 1966 census - the figure has increased a good deal since then - in Brunswick there were 10.105 people who were born in Italy and 6,840 people who were born in Greece. That is a total of 16,945 people alone in my electorate who were born in Italy and Greece. As far as I can tell from a run through the 1966 census this is the highest concentration of Italians and Greeks in Australia. This means that of all the people in Australia who were born in ItalY one in  15 lives in my electorate, of all the  people  born in Greece one in 22 lives in my electorate and of those born in Malta, one in 17 lives in my electorate. So to those two communities this is a real social problem and one for which 1 will place before the House this afternoon a plea for special action. There are a few other similar suburbs in Melbourne of which perhaps Prahran, Richmond and Northcote may well be some, but Brunswick is the one that is the most hard pressed as far as education is concerned. 
Honourable members ought to examine this question and really think of the problems when one in 5 of the community in Brunswick 4 or 5 years ago - it is more now - were born in Italy. Many of them are still unable  to  speak English. They all have increasing families although in fact they are probably better off even if they are at the Australian poverty line than they were in Italy. 1 believe that these 3 or 4 suburbs in Melbourne, of which I think Brunswick, ought to be the principal beneficiary - Coburg is another and there are perhaps 2 or 3 in Sydney - ought to have some special Commonwealth effort spent on them in the form of capital works, but I will come to that in a moment. Just to ensure that it would be on the record that we understand the magnitude of the problem as far as the schools themselves are concerned I went round the schools and go! from them the most recent statistics. I do not happen to have them all here, nor would it be appropriate to place them on record if I did. 
Let us take the Princess Hill primary school as an example. One of the interesting facts is that generally speaking the situation is a little less educationally disastrous in the primary schools than it is in the secondary schools. If a boy or girl aged 12, 13 or 14 years turns up in the school and cannot speak a word of English there arc 2 problems. In the secondary school or technical school the position is hopeless. If they turn up in the primary school at grades 1, 2 or 3 the solution seems to come but pretty slowly. They never really catch up unless they are especially bright but the position is not quite as hopeless. Figures given to me last year for the Princess Hill primary school, for instance, showed that 15 children in grade 6 needed remedial English lessons, 10 in grade 5, 22 in grade 4, 14 in grade 3 and 5 in grade 2. It just happens that I have these figures with me. Some other schools are much more hard pressed but in this school with 66 children in need of remedial English lessons there is a need for perhaps 3 special teachers. 1 think they have one coming at some time in the near future. But Princes Hill is not the most hard pressed in that regard. 
Four years ago ray colleague the State member for Brunswick West,  Mr Campbell  Turnbull, who has been pretty assiduous about these matters, had statistics prepared for the schools in the area. 1 will just name one, the Slate school at No. 1213 Brunswick. These are big schools with between 400 and 900 students. Seventy-eight per cent of the pupils in grade 1A were new Australian children, 79 per cent in grade IB, 90 per cent in grade IC, 76 per cent in grade ID, 70 per cent in grade IE, 75 per cent in grade IF, 85 per cent in grade 1G and so on down to 58 per cent in the special rural school which is conducted for the purposes of training. Honourable members should try to imagine the situation of the teacher faced with these classes, lt would be bad enough if they were all people who spoke the same language, but that is not the case. I visited Moreland primary school last year just to see how they were going. The figures there are very similar. 1 walked in one morning as school was starting and said to the Headmaster: 'Well, they have got a migrant education Bill on the stocks at our place. What is your position?' He said: 'You are one of the leaders of the nation. Solve this for me.' He handed me 3 notes he had received that morning, one in Turkish, one in Greek and one in Italian. 
These are insuperable problems when the parents turn up and cannot speak English. When the teacher faces the class he might even have been taught French at some time - irrelevant as it might be in the Australian education system - but how does he handle the Turks, the Greeks and the Albanians? At that time that school had 16 different language groups as far as we could determine. Therefore we must do something much more dramatic than what is proposed here, lt is a step in the right direction but it is a very small step indeed. I believe that in Brunswick, which, as I said, is only 4 square miles in area  or the size of a decent farm where some honourable members come from, in Coburg and probably in Richmond and Northcote  -  I do not know the geography of Sydney so well - the only solution to the problem seems to be to take a special building and make it a school in which for perhaps 6 months - I am not sure of the time element - one concentrates on getting the children integrated into the English language. Some people will say: You are going to segregate them.' This, of course, is not the issue. They are no more segregated than they would be in the school grounds. Two or 3 Turks, say, who arrive at one of the primary schools and cannot speak a word of any language that anybody else can speak can be just as lonely as if they were segregated somewhere on their own. 
I do not believe there is any solution to this other than a capital works programme by the Commonwealth. That is why it is in our amendment. The States will not do it so we must do it. I am putting this on the record and  1  hope that the Minister for Immigration, Treasury officials and all the other people concerned take notice of it.I know it is probably not the Minister's fault. In some ways he appears to be humane, and he has even had a progressive idea now and again. The Commonwealth must accept that kind of responsibility in these half dozen Melbourne communities of which I think Brunswick is pre-eminent. None of the people of course, would have to travel more than a mile or two to the school. That is the first element. The second question is. of course, that of teachers. We will not get anywhere with the approach that we have taken so far as is shown by the very meagre number of teachers who have turned up. 
When [ raised this matter last week with all the appropriate Ministers, both State and Federal, the Victorian Minister for Education,  Mr Thompson,  let me have some figures which show that Brunswick primary school will have 2, Brunswick East1, Brunswick North 3, Brunswick South 2, Brunswick South West 1, and Brunswick West 1. In the high schools Brunswick will have 2, Brunswick girls 1 and Princess Hill 1. Let us consider for a moment the Brunswick girls school. I know for a fact that of the 500 or so girls at the school about 300 really need special English teaching. Apart from any other consideration it is a very deprived area educationally, anyhow. The school grounds are miserable, the buildings outdated, antiquated and obsolescent and the equipment is poor. This also means that as the community is poor in comparison with the rest of Victoria -I presume this happens in other States - there are no resources available from parent support. One of the results of the migration scheme to many of the schools in this area has been that where 15 or 20 years ago there was a fairly vigorous parent body, although not as vigorous as it ought to be and as it is, say, in Canberra or somewhere else because these people are living at the lowest level of wages and salaries, organisations like mothers' clubs, as we call them in Victoria, and school committees get no parent support at all. Moreland primary school, which one might say was a prosperous looking school 10 or 12 years ago, has become a completely deprived school because there is no parent support to keep up the supply of extras that are needed. I believe that these are special cases and that the Commonwealth must step into the area of migrant education in this way. ThereforeI am putting it on record that until we approach the problem in this way we will not get anywhere. The Minister spoke about special equipment such as mini language laboratories. If we have the money to pour into other areas there should be money for this sort of equipment. 
Sirring suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker, earlierI was discussing the Immigration (Education) Bill and the Opposition's proposal that the Government should have made provision for capital works. I was putting the case that at least in my electorate, irrespective of what is done or how much money is made available, unless some new buildings and capital facilities are provided the Government's intention would be aborted. Brunswick and Coburg, 2 centres in my electorate, have one of the greatest concentrations of migrants in Australia. The 1966 census shows that more than 10,000 Italians and nearly 5,000 Greeks lived in Brunswick and that about 7,000 Italians and 2,000 
Greeks lived in Coburg. Such a concentration of people is of significant social importance. The community which has taken these people into its schools and made available all the other facilities is entitled to the kind of support which we urge should be given. 
The children of migrant families are entitled to this consideration. In my view there is no other way in which we can approach this problem particularly in areas such as those I have mentioned. The Brunswick Girls School is a typical example of the present situation. As I pointed out no matter how many teachers are supplied, there is nothing they can do with the equipment that may be provided because of inadequate accommodation. The inadequacy of the buildings generally and of the grounds makes it impossible for them to cope. That school needs special equipment, including many language laboratories, console laboratories and it also needs teachers trained in the use of these facilities. It also needs special colour facilities for projection. I believe that the error here is that the Government is still relying too much upon State resources. The State resources are meagre in the extreme. 
I approached the Minister of Education in Victoria about this matter to find out what had happened. I visited about half a dozen schools at the beginning of the new school year. Although the Minister said in reply to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that despite the fact that this legislation had been hanging fire for 12 months, the machinery had been put into operation. A handful of teachers has already started in the schools but according to the Minister of Education in Victoria as far as that State is concerned the Department has purchased equipment costing about $53,000 to be used exclusively for the teaching of English and that no further finance is at present available but a request has been made to the Commonwealth for a supplementary grant for further purchases. I have no doubt that the Government will accede to that request. On the other hand that State is likely to be one of the victims of the kind of phoney financial situation that has been created at the moment. As I have already said a request has been made to the Commonwealth for additional finance to service the equipment needs of other schools.  I  believe that the approach to this matter is still too perfunctory altogether. 
Several questions have been raised in this debate about the position of the Australian people regarding the kind of migrants that come here. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  said that we cannot pose value judgments - that there are strong humane reasons why anybody should be able to come to Australia. I personally do not hold the views held by a lot of people in this House that to allow a reasonable number of people of a different colour of skin into this country would create difficulties. I do not believe that this is the case but it is a subject which has never been debated rationally in this country even though I admit there are strong differences of opinion. I represent an area in which there are large numbers of people, with almost a total lack of affinity with Australians, who have been admitted to the community reasonably successfully. They have to battle at first. This would apply particularly to Turks. They have no affinity with the Australian community except perhaps the fact that they have the same skin colour. I have seen other people who have come into that community who have total affinity except for their skin colour. 1 would like to be given an adequate explanation from all those people who are terribly worried about this matter - I realise that it creates problems in people's minds - as to exactly why the almost total affinity of a Pakistani engineer makes him more difficult to assimilate than a Turk with a total lack of affinity except for the colour of his skin which is supposed to make him acceptable I believe the community has to be much more mature in its examination of this problem. I do not know what the answers are. I can only hope that we can engender a public debate in which people can discuss it rationally in. the face of the fact that we do live in a multi-racial world. 
I address a question to  the Minister for Defence. Within the last few days another Australian battalion has sailed for Vietnam and inevitably a proportion of it will become casualties. Simultaneously the Minister has announced cuts' in defence spending. Is there an Australian withdrawal timetable? Why is he more assiduous at saving money than at saving lives? For how much longer will the Government spend lives in Vietnam in order to save Australian Democratic Labor Party preferences? 
Last night my 2 colleagues, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  raised the question of what one might call justice, for want of a better term, in the lower courts of both New South Wales and Victoria. To add something to what they said, I remind honourable members of an incident which took place outside La Trobe University last year and which was featured in the newspapers of Melbourne, Photographs showed rather brutal behaviour on the part of some of the constabulary. As a result of this incident a number of young men and a young woman whom I know were taken to the local court and were sentenced rather savagely. One young man, a constituent of mine, received a sentence of 14 days' imprisonment and a very heavy fine. As far as one can tell from the evidence, the sentence was unjust. I suppose that this sort of thing happens a large proportion of the time in the lower courts. 
The sequel to this story occurred last Friday when the case was taken on appeal to the higher court. The appeal was upheld, the prison sentence was quashed and the fine was revoked. I simply want to place it on record that there are before us, if we care to look, ample cases in which lower courts have inflicted unjust penalties, have accepted police evidence against all the weight of the facts and have visited very serious injustice and hardship upon people in this community. This is one of the facets of justice to which we ought to turn our attention. 
I personally do not believe that one man ought to be able to send another to gaol. I believe that if a person is to be sent to gaol the case should be determined by a jury. Here we have an instance in which my friend from Reid produced before a court evidence which could be either accepted or rejected, but the fact is that the magistrate concerned visited upon him a penalty. It seems to me that there is no place in the Australian system for such a form of injustice. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  has at last joined the forces of freedom and progress. He is advocating an extension of nationalised industry into his electorate. I congratulate him upon the realisation that that is the area from which he will get the most service. I want to speak about something completely different. My colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  raised the question of the cynical approach of this Government to age pensions. I want to refer to a matter of much more extreme and dangerous cynicism. I refer to the dispatch of another battalion to Vietnam within the last week or so. This .occurred despite the fact that the war, as far as our American allies are concerned, is being closed down. I just cannot understand the morality of a government which at this stage can continue to do that. 
In the last few days in answer to a question by my friend the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  it was stated that 390 Australians have been killed in action in Vietnam and 55 have died because of accidental wounding or illness. That is a total of 445 young men who have lost their lives in Vietnam in the last 5 or 6 years and 2,198 men have been wounded. What does this mean to this battalion that has just been dispatched? On any kind of a statistical analysis it means that of those young men who were sent overseas between 20 and 40 of them will lose their lives in action. I would estimate that about 100 to 150 of those men will be wounded and perhaps about 10 to 20 will be totally and permanently incapacitated due to their war service. We should bear in mind that most of the ones who will be wounded, killed or injured will be those who were called up under the National Service Act. They will have been conscripted into a lifetime of poverty. For what? I believe this is the ultimate act of cynicism that this Government has perpetrated. 
All the evidence is that the Western alliance or call it what you will - our association with the Americans in this matter and the New Zealanders - is withdrawing from the field in Vietnam yet in this crucial moment Australia is prepared to dispatch another 30 or 40 young men to their death and perhaps somewhere between 100 and 120 who will be seriously wounded. Why? ls there any possibility of a military result? Of course there is not. Nobody says that we will obtain a military result, lt is fairly obvious that the South Vietnamese Army now feels that it can almost go it alone. Australia will not produce any military result in Vietnam. Will our presence help the political solution? It will not. It is quite obvious that Australian forces in the area will in no way help to produce a political result. 
When I was in Vietnam some 5 or 6 months ago I visited a fair sized town with a population of about 9,000 people and the authorities there believed that about 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the people there still supported the National Liberation Front. It is clear therefore that our presence will not have any effective result on the political or military operations. Why are our troops there? All I can say is that I guess this Government is a prisoner of its habits and decisions of the past or that it is a prisoner of its political advantage. I am afraid 1 have come to the conclusion that the only reason why this battalion was dispatched in the last week or so is that the Government is afraid of its Democratic Labor Party allies and that it wanted to guarantee continued support of DLP second preferences at election times. I can think of nothing more immoral. I can think of nothing more cynical and nothing for which this Government ought to be more condemned. This policy has produced disunity in the community. It has turned the words 'national service' into a term of derision, one might say. Nobody calls Army service 'national service' any more because of the operations of the National Service Act and the operations in Vietnam. Quite frankly I cannot understand how my colleagues opposite can continue to support this Act, particularly those who are of military age. In the last 2 or 3 years the Government has done something disastrous to the Australian Army. 
In the last 2 years there have been several instances in which soldiers have been charged with the murder of their officers. I have some knowledge of the history of our armed forces and I do not know of any previous instances, although they could well have occurred, of soldiers being charged with the murder of their officers or non-commissioned officers, particularly not on the battlefield. Something disastrous has happened to the Australian Army. 1 would like the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  to give us a guarantee that he is turning his attention to the Service to find out why this is happening, lt is a terrible tragedy that our men are being shot by their fellow soldiers. It may well have happened because of drinking in the lines, or for some other reason, but the fact is that my study of the history of the Australian armed forces shows that it has never happened before. 1 believe that these events are the product of the cynicism and immorality of the whole system. 
I hope that in the very near future - now, for that matter - the Government will announce a withdrawal timetable for our forces in Vietnam. There is no possible justification for the continued dispatch of our troops to Vietnam. For the benefit of my colleagues opposite who have just entered the chamber f will repeat the relevant statistics, as I see them, for the battalion which has just been dispatched to Vietnam. On the basis of the last 4 or 5 years, between 20 and 40 young men in that battalion will be killed before their year of service is over; from 100 to 150 of them will be wounded; and perhaps 15 to 20 of them will be maimed for life. How can the sending of those troops possibly be justified in view of the present situation in Vietnam? 
I appreciate that honourable members opposite in their persona) lives have the same type of conscience as anybody else. I ask them to apply themselves to this question free of the subjective politics of the Australian scene. I ask them to realise that this is a matter of life and death for a large number of young Australians and that nothing can justify the retention of Australian forces in Vietnam. 
That was an interesting "speech from the Messiah from Miles in which he set out to save us from ourselves. I think he completely missed the point of the debate. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and I would hold identical views on some of the issues about which he spoke tonight. 1 have travelled with him; I have talked with him; 1 have been overseas with him. Generally speaking, from his attitudes, the kind of conversations that we have and the kind of language that we use one would expect the personal moral attitudes that we express to be not greatly different. 
I think he did the debate a little disservice by assuming that there is something wrong on the- part of people on this side of the House who have attitudes about the liberalisation of censorship with which he disagrees. Let me say this to honourable members opposite, some of whom have directed very unkind remarks to my friend from Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass):  'On all of these matters of morals, personal behaviour and what one should do and should not do, let him who is without sin cast the first stone'. The honourable member for Maranoa used phrases such as 'the reasonable approach', 'the best interests' and what is to be gained?'. Those are the age old arguments for restriction. 
I do not know what is to be gained in a national community sense by any of these things. But I do know that down through history very little has been gained by allowing administrative authority to decide what people shall do and shall not do or what they shall read or shall not read in the course of their private affairs and for their own intellectual development. In my view, that is the very basis of the authoritarian society. Therefore, I join with honourable members on this side of the House in supporting what one might call a much more cautious approach not towards censorship but towards restriction. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has done the Parliament a service by raising this question for debate. It is 33 years since the last such debate. I believe that some of the issues raised by my friends opposite are quite irrelevant. 
The Minister's powers are very limited indeed. He has power only over those things that are brought into the country. He has power only as the customs officer of the country. He has no power to prevent any printery from printing anything it likes. As I understand the position, he has no power to prevent any film maker from making what he likes. He has no authority over the theatre and the things people do in it. So the effect of his view on censorship is minimal indeed. We have to decide in just what ways this situation ought to be developed. 
I believe that it is part of the conceit of this generation, as indeed it probably was of every other generation, to say that there is more permissiveness and more depravity and that people are better and more delicately controlled morally than they used to be. Do not people read history books? Do not they flick back the pages and find what life was like 100, 200 or 1,000 years ago? Society's values seem to me to go in waves. At present there is much more licence in the use of language than I would not use than there was 10, 15, 20 or 30 years ago. But then when I turn to books and find out what it was like 120 years ago or what it is like in some other community I find there is very little difference indeed. So we are not discussing a dramatic change in the social organisation of this community; we are discussing the way in which a certain area of authority vested in the Minister shall be administered. 
The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  said that political issues ought not be censored - I doubt whether my friend the honourable member for Maranoa would agree with him completely - but the moral issues are a different matter. I am the kind of person who thinks that many political issues are moral issues. I believe that things such as race discrimination, apartheid and some of the propaganda of the Nazi Party are in fact moral issues but I would be the last one to suppress them. My friend the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has some very odd political views. I regard the attitudes that he is adopting as highly immoral but the last thing I would do is suppress them. I will leave it to the people of the electorate of Boothby who will evenutally come to ground about it. So these, I think, are the issues. 
I find that the greatest difficulty about censorship is this simple question of the problem of consistency. Where does one draw the line? Many honourable members have remarked on this. Just to test this little question I went into the Library a few moments ago while this debate was in progress and I said: T want something on torture and something on sex.' So without any difficulty I obtained  2  books. The one on torture is not terribly definitive about forms of torture, although it does describe what happens when the water method and various beatings are used and when electricity is used as an encouragement to confession and so on. This is on the shelf; it is not banned. This is the sort of thing that people ought to read. After all, this is what the French Government was doing in Algeria and Indo-China to make sure that those countries stayed part of the French empire. But it describes violence in some of its worst forms. I have here an even more interesting tome titled 'ABZ of Love'. I find it difficult to believe that some of the illustrations in this book are any worse - I suppose it is a value judgment in a way - than those in books which are banned. But it is sitting innocently on the shelves and, as far as I can tell, not banned. 
So I ask: 'Where does the consistency lie? Where do we draw the line? How can we decide?' That, I believe, is the puzzle found by my friends the honourable member for Maribyrnong, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the rest of us. We perhaps differ slightly from my colleague the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  on this matter. I find it impossible to decide. From all those things I have read in the general issue of publications and all I have seen on film and so on I find it is almost impossible to draw the line in such a way that one is consistent. Therefore I believe that the argument is in favour of the surrendering of this system altogether. That brings me to the question of obscenity. As one of those people brought up in that kind of household where certain language was not allowed I rarely use the kind of language that some other people use. But I am prepared to admit that that is a purely personal view. My own attitude is that all those people who use what I regard as offensive language in the course of ordinary discussion have some kind of inferiority complex or some lack of knowledge or understanding of the English language, because many of the words used as adjectives and nouns do not actually fit into the context of the argument. With the broad spread of some  300,000  or  400,000  words in the English language that kind of language is quite unnecessary. I prefer that it be not used.  1  find it personally offensive when I am reading a reasonable piece of literature to discover that these, words have been included, I believe, unnecessarily. But I do see that this is probably a very personal view. 
I therefore find it difficult on this question of obscenity to make the same sort of decision and I therefore again come to the conclusion - I presume I am holding probably the same moral values as the rest of the community - that liberalism or the surrender of control is more desirable than the accentuation of control. I suppose that it is not a question of obscenity but more a question of aesthetics. I understand that people have been fined for being nude on the stage. I can remember the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in one of his earlier abberations - I think he was Minister for Housing and Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise - when asked a question about a book which I think was titled 'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof saying that of course it had to be banned. He said that all the action took place in the bathroom or in the toilet. I said to myself: This is an odd attitude for the Minister for Housing to adopt. Is he planning to build houses without bathrooms and toilets?' I think that illustrates the inconsistency and irrelevance of the whole system. 
Nudity is a subject attracting some interest in life because  50  per cent of the world's people are shaped like this, and  50  per cent are shaped like that. Never one group shall see the other nude except on odd occasions. I remind honourable members that one has to travel only to Arnhem Land, Papua and New Guinea and such places to find a completely uninhibited display of the human figure. Nobody has suggested that those people should be arrested. Such inconsistent standards are applied so that no longer can one believe that censorship has any relevance in modern society in the form in which it has developed. 
J take strong exception to many things which are the epitome of violence and degradation but nothing whatsoever is done about them. 'Lady Chatterley's Lover' and Portnoy's Complaint' have been banned at times. [ have not read either of those books but my friends have told me that some parts of them are very readable and other parts are quite offensive. The people in my electorate have to be protected from these things. Only a handful of them will ever read those books but they will see plenty of violence and hear much bad language and obscenity outside hotels which are so freely established in the community. The people who established those hotels receive great profits from them and many have received knighthoods from this Government. 
We should ask ourselves a lot of questions about this subject. I refer particularly to my friends on the other side of the chamber, some ' of whom have chosen to cast a few aspersions on the attitudes of members of the Opposition. In talking about violence we should ask ourselves which is the  paTty  of violence and which is the party that supports the flogging and hanging which has taken place not so far from my own office, ls not the Liberal Party the party of war? My friend the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is very protective of the 21- year-olds. He says that they must not see violence and must be protected from it, but he is one who consistently votes to send our young men to the battlefields where the most extreme examples of violence can be seen. 
My attitudes, I suppose, are not exactly puritan. I would prefer to say that I am influenced by aesthetic principles in my attitude to language, obscenity and so on. While I regret that it is so prevalent in the community I cannot find a consistent regime or ritual by which we could establish standards and systems that I could support. I believe that the Minister for Customs and Excise has done the country a service in tackling the whole system of censorship, lt is not a service that can be measured but it is a service of liberalisation and of opening up the matter for public debate. I am not an authority as to which literature is acceptable. At one stage The Catcher in the Rye' was banned, but now it is on the list of books to be read by Melbourne matriculation students. It is a continuing system of changing standards. As I said earlier, I think it is just part of our general conceit. Human relationships change from time to time, as do our attitudes. 
Nowadays there is much more open discussion on sex and relationships between males and females in the community than there was 20 years ago. I have noticed in our own family differences in attitudes between two of our sons, with an age difference of 4 or 5 years. My friends opposite are likely to talk about inhibiting this development of open discussion in some way. They refer to the permissive society, whatever that is. Again 1 say that it is part of our conceit. Is the violence today any worse than it was in the 1920s when special squads had to be placed in the streets of Melbourne to control the pushes? Is it any worse than it was 100 years ago? Have honourable members opposite read any Australian history? Have they read of what the slums of Britain were like 120 years ago, or even more recently? What are the slums like in some parts of the world now? I do not think this country is any more depraved than it used to be. In many respects it may well be a much better place. 
On the question of what people shall see and what people shall not see, I have my own belief that things, such as posters, which impinge upon my visual environment and which are, in my view, obscene or offensive to me, to my family or to the public, ought not to be permitted. But that is a different question from censorship by our chief customs officer. I think that a different sort of attitude and standard ought to prevail on television and on motion pictures. At the motion pictures one deliberately buys a ticket and goes in. With television one is an involuntary watcher half the time. I would like to see the exhibitors of public posters accept the standards that I myself accept. 
The debate this evening has been heartening. On the whole honourable members opposite, those of them who have disagreed strongly with us, have been reasonably charitable to us, though the honourable member for Maranoa was not quite so Christian and charitable to people holding opposing views as he ought to have been. I hope that the Minister will take the bit between his teeth - or whatever one does in this field - and forget that he is our chief censorship officer and develop his liberal ways even more liberally. One of the tragedies of the last 20 years has been that as soon as a Minister of this Government has become liberal minded, open hearted and showing commonsense he has usually been given the sack. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
In answer to the last point made by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  it is quite obvious from any study of the international situation that Australia can contribute nothing whatsoever to the cause of peace while its forces are engaged in the war in South Vietnam. It will be somebody who is totally neutral - not necessarily neutral in the moral sense, but neutral in the physical, military and political sense in this conflict - who perhaps will get the parties together around a table. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who happens to have left the chamber for some reason or other, and the honourable member for Lyne have missed the point altogether. The point of this debate is: What are we doing in South Vietnam? What do we achieve while we are there? When will our troops come home? 
 Obviously the honourable member for Diamond Valley is not going to Vietnam. In my day and generation, if anybody of your age- 
Yes, the motion is quite clear. I can read it. 
I support the remarks of my friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  but I do not really understand some of the reasons why we introduce the mystiques of capital enterprise so devotedly into such an operation as overseas telecommunications. The operation, as I see it, is estimable indeed. When it was first proposed, the service was designed to provide for better communications within the British Commonwealth and Empire. Of course, both of these terms are no longer appropriate or acceptable, but the fact that so many nations are subscribing to and co-operating in this field is, I believe, very important. 
I have intervened in this debate because I believe we should be able to provide a better communications service for the people of Papua and New Guinea who use this system. I think that the cost of making a call from Port Moresby to the Australian mainland is S3 a minute. I do not know where the cable is located but I presume that various means of communication are used. There is a cable station at Cairns and another at Madang. The distance between Port Moresby and Cairns is only about  500  miles. I believe that a little less than justice is being done to the people of Papua and New Guinea and that the organisation itself is being a little less than fair, considering the tremendous profits it is able to make, in charging $3 a minute for a call from the Territory to the Australian mainland. 
I take this opportunity to speak on behalf of the people of Papua and New Guinea. The provision of a. lower charge might require a radical change in the way the costing is done. Presumably, overseas territories are treated as different countries, but I believe that the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  should turn his attention to this aspect. But, as an international operation of some magnitude, funded totally by governments, the overseas telecommunications service is a remarkable example of Labor Party policy working effectively and efficiently. If something can be done about the charges, I believe that the organisation will be playing a more effective and important part than it has been doing. The original Act, in its preamble stated: 
* . . recommendations were made for the adoption of certain measures for promoting and coordinating the efficiency and development of the telecommunications services of the British Commonwealth and Empire. 
It does not matter how efficient the service is or how effective it may be if it is too expensive. 

 - Mr Speaker, one of the continuing comedies in this place is the political arithmetic of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  The Liberal Government in South Australia was defeated because it received only about half as many votes as the Australian Labor Party received, and even the gerrymander which the Liberal Government had been able to organise was not able to overcome that debacle. The fact is that the election in South Australia was like the election in Western Australia where the Labor Party received 49 per cent of the votes, the Liberal Party received 29 per cent and the Australian Country Party received 5 per cent. The Liberal and Country Parties in Western Australia received 34 per cent of the votes as against 49 per cent by the Labor Party, but, bless me, we are struggling to win. How many votes do we have to get in order to beat the political arithmetic of the honourable member for Mallee? Of course, as I have pointed out in this place on many occasions, if a union leader burnt the ballot papers so that somebody could not win or if he sent a ballot box off somewhere so that nobody could vote against him, the Government would put him in gaol. But if he was a Liberal, the Government would knight him and make him Premier of South Australia or Victoria. 1 rose to speak on two issues - one major and one relatively minor. First of all, T want to support my friend the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and. in particular, to place before the House the facts concerning the continuing problems, hardships and miseries of the people of Laos. This Government has done very little about the matter. When our delegation returned from Laos some 6 months ago, we pointed out that the heeds of the people were simple; all that was wanted were ground sheets, blankets and mosquito nets for 40,000 people. Perhaps they would cost $1 or S2 each, so $200,000 would be required to solve that kind of problem. But now we have another 15,000 to 20,000 refugees on our hands and still nothing is done by the Government. The problem, as 1 see it, stems from the complete international inertia about the problems facing the people of Laos and Cambodia. 
My friend the honourable member for Mallee talked about the Chowilla Dam. The Government says that we cannot build it now because we are short of funds. But on the latest estimates $200m a year is being wasted in the war in Vietnam - $42m in defence expenditure, $50m on pay for the troops there, about $75m for all the concealed maintenance along the line and another $10m or $20m on other things. The Vietnam commitment is costing us every year about  2i  times the cost of the Chowilla Dam. 
But this afternoon I rose to make a point on behalf of some people who cannot speak for themselves. It is really in answer to something which the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  said last night. In all this nonsense about the economy, and with $200m a year being wasted in Vietnam and all the other things that go on, the honourable member for Deakin picked on Commonwealth public servants and Commonwealth cars. One might say: They are innocent bystanders;, let us deal wilh them.' It just happened that as I came into this House yesterday morning one of the staff said to me: 'Why do they kick us?' Occasionally people at his level - he is one of the attendants in the House - get a Commonwealth car home because it is the employers duty to provide transport for people to get home when public transport stops. All that the honourable member for Deakin can do is to talk about the Commonwealth car pool and the Commonwealth car service. I raise my voice here this afternoon in the hope that nothing is done to prevent people who work in this House and others from receiving the services to which they are entitled, and that the Repatriation Department, which, as I understand it, is the major customer of the Commonwealth car pool, is not interfered with. 1, for my part, consider it the ultimate in hypocrisy and humbug to talk about economies, austerity, inflation or anything else when the major contributing factor is the immoral and futile war in Vietnam. 

 )- Mr Speaker- 

My colleague, the right honourable member for Melbourne, has a long and distinguished record which could well be the envy of anybody in this House and he has never been reticent when he has thought that he had to say something on behalf of the parliamentary institution. Today we have seen a most incredible exhibition of what might be called parliamentary musical chairs, with this institution being used for the in-fighting of the Liberal Party. I believe, and I say this emphatically, that it is a disgrace that at this hour, with no Minister for Defence, with the whole place in disarray and with the country needing guidance of any sort, we should close down for 3 parliamentary sitting days. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 2-.41 p.m. until Monday, 15 March at 2.30 p.m. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. I accept the brevity of his tenure of office and hope that it stays that way. 

 - Mr Speaker, in welcoming the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to the august body of which you are the  chairman,  I express the hope that he will continue the practice of the former Prime Minister, the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  in permitting and encouraging free votes by members of the House on questions relating to the Standing Orders. This was a substantial contribution to the good working and fellowship of this Parliament. I hope that there is no interference with that practice and that this will be brought to the present temporary Prime Minister's notice. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I incorporate the matter accordingly. 
SUGGESTION D (GOVERNMENTS) 
lt is suggested that the Government should be invited to consider adopting a programme, under which they might: 
Formally proclaim 1971 to be the International Year for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and observe it as such; 
Issue, during the Year, in the name of Heads of Suites or Governments, special messages reaffirming their faith in the dignity and worth of the human person and their dedication io the implementation of the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination: 
Examine the possibility of holding a special meeting of their Parliament or National Assembly, or other appropriate body, on 21 March 1971, the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination: 
Sign and ratify the International Convention on the Elimination of- All Forms of Racial Dis crimination, if they have not done so, and consider recognizing the right of communication provided for in article 14 thereof; 
Undertake all necessary measures in order to implement fully the principles contained in the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, and in particular to undertake a review of their national legislation against the standards of the Declaration and to enact such laws and take any other measures in the field of legislation as may be necessary and appropriate for giving effect to the provisions of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination if the Stale concerned is a party to the Convention; 
Continue to give moral and materia! assistance to peoples struggling against all forms of racial discrimination; 
Promote the widest and most intensive possible dissemination of the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination; 
Ratify or accede, if they have not yet done so, to other conventions having a bearing upon the elimination of . racial discrimination, including the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, the Slavery Convention of 1926 as amended, the Supplementary Convention of 1956 on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery, the. UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education, the 1LO Convention of 1958 concerning Discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation, the International Covenants on Human Rights, and the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; 
Ensure that the curricula of their schools and of other educational institutions include teaching of the scientific facts about race, that invidious distinctions about peoples are not made in textbooks and in classrooms, and that all material susceptible of leading to racial discrimination and prejudice be eliminated from textbooks; ensure teaching the instructors the value of principles of equality ' and dignity of all men; 
Promote publication of books, pamphlets, reports and other publications, both learned and popular, to assist in the organization of radio and television broadcasts on subjects connected with the Year and in the distribution of films and the utilization of other appropriate information media and to arrange for the holding of competitions if that is considered expedient; 
Encourage cultural exchanges between countries of different races, hospitality programmes, opening of homes to students and visitors of different, races; 
Encourage sports, athletic, and other similar organizations to contribute to the establishment of harmonious relations among the peoples of different races; 
Issue postage stamps and first-day covers on 21st March 1971, and arrange for special cancellations during 1971; 
Set up national committees to work out programmes of the observance of the International Year corresponding to their national characteristics and social circumstances and to coordinate the various activities of the Year; 
Inform the Secretary-General of the programmes and activities undertaken during the Year. 
Racism is a mysterious piece of human psychology. The history of it is unclear. There was a stage in history when people discriminated against one another on religious and all sorts of other grounds. In recent years discrimination appears to have consolidated on the pigmentation of the skin, on the colour of people. I find this a very difficult psychological or emotional question, the basis of which I cannot quite understand. Perhaps we ought to establish a study of it, in this country particularly. On the one hand we have the Aboriginal people who have been deprived for years; not on racist grounds, generally speaking, but in fact they have been deprived and so it looks like that. On the other hand we have the question of the people of Papua and New Guinea and the question of our own immigration policy. 
A question arising from our immigration policy is how to confront the simple issues that arise in electorates. During the last 20 years countless numbers of migrants have come to live in my electorate. Turks have come to live there, and about the only affinity we have with them is our skin colour. It is very difficult for anybody who has a black skin, such as a Pakistani engineer I know, to bring his family to live in this country. I recognise all the social, psychological and political ramifications in this country. The problem has been deepseated for a century, but somehow we must confront Australians with this question: Is skin colour such a basic disaffinity that it is impossible for people to live together? All honourable members find no difficulty about this question. We have a presumption in our hearts and minds and in the politics of the country that in fact it is impossible for people to live together in that situation. The presumption is therefore implemented through various administrative attitudes. 
I am not arguing one way or the other. My view is that we should be much more libera] and that the problem has to be handled with extreme care because we do not know for certain what will be the public reaction. But I believe it is important that we ask some scientific research unit to find the basis of the community's attitude, because in this matter particularly we owe a duty to the people of Papua and New Guinea. I put this question: What is the problem? What is amiss with our psychology or emotions which makes it appear that the disaffinity of skin colour is more difficult to overcome than any other disaffinity with cultural or social connotations? 
That is right. I have dealt with the first issueI wished to raise before the House. My second point is related to the matter raised by my friend, the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  I refer to the question of vandalism. I agree with my friend's remarks. I was displeased to see the words painted on the walls of the British High Commission offices. I do not believe that that action achieves anything and I am against it. I believe it to be vandalism. I want to refer now to a piece of public vandalism - the National Service Act. Next week at the Coburg Court, which is in my electorate, a young student will be charged under the first part of the process of the national service system. I believe that the National Service Act is a piece of political and governmental vandalism and that the victims are more than paint and fences. The victims are human lives, and nobody can justify it. What I rose this afternoon to say is that when that young man faces the court on Tuesday morning or Tuesday afternoon he will have been put there by the members of this Government. I personally hold each one of them responsible. As far as I am concerned I will do everything in my power, short of violence I suppose, or any real breach of the law, to prevent an act of violence being perpetrated against that young man in his being dragged off to Pentridge gaol or the minefields of Vietnam. 1 personally hold every member of the Government parties responsible and I will make certain, so far as it is within my power, that every one of my constituents, particularly those people who are of military age, know exactly where the Government's responsibilities lie. I give notice that as far as this young man is concerned and as far as I am concerned, because he is one of my constitutents, the gloves are off. 
In his statement the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  said: 
In the meantime, I have decided to release the Advisory Committee's- report, so that there might be an opportunity for public discussion on it. 
Will the Minister take whatever steps are necessary in the House to see that there is discussion in the Parliament on this matter? 
lt is not a matter for anyone but yourselves, surely. 
Let me make my continuing formal acknowledgment of the fact that this Parliament is being used as an offshoot of Premiers, Dukes or anyone else who happens to turn up. After long discussions this Parliament decided that it would proceed upon certain arrangements for sittings. It sits Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday then Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Now the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  comes into the House and talks about normal sittings. We have been sitting for half a dozen weeks and there have been no normal sittings. There is nothing so normal' about this place as its abnormality. The Senate has become the Parliament, the Press has become the Government and we have become a function of the Premiers of Australia who may as well not come here for all the good they will get out of it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  demonstrated adequately why he is no longer the Prime Minister and why he should not be the Minister for Defence. He should have told us in the 10 or IS minutes he had at his disposal exactly how the machinery works and why it is working effectively. He has not done so. The Opposition's complaint is that there has been no evidence over the last 15 or 20 years that in any matter of vital interest this Parliament through its executive officers and its executive instruments - the Ministers - is effectively controlling and developing the total Service establishment. That is what is on challenge here this morning. It is not a political issue or anything of that kind. It is a vital and fundamental principle of a democratic society. Does the former Prime Minister expect us to swallow his statement that, because he stands here and says that there is effective control, there is in fact effective control? 
I shall outline some of the evidence to show how over the last 15 years the armed Services have not been under control. Members of Parliament should remember that there is a long history of struggle to gain parliamentary control of armed 
Services and other establishments. The Oxford History of England - one could almost say that this qualifies in some way the Minister's speech - states that apparently Parliament had accepted literally Cromwell's statement that the Army would disband immediately upon the order of the 2 Houses. Apparently the Minister for Defence this morning expects us to believe that by his simple assertion of the fact that parliamentary control is effectively exercised through the present Ministry we should believe this is so. I do not believe it is the case. The Minister spoke about a system which involves $ 1,200m a year and which intimately controls the lives of 130,000 Australian servicemen, mostly young men. 
What we are concerned about is not whether control is a legal fact but whether control is being effectively exercised. We believe that the Ministry has continually abdicated its responsibilities in this matter. It is not a question of plain responsibility; it is a question of a fundamental social and community duty. The role of the Minister and the role of the Chief of the General Staff are perhaps not in dispute but the facts are that the Chief of the General Staff is another instrument of this Parliament. The armed Services, the judges, the courts and Departments of State are all established to carry out the will of this Parliament which expresses, as we hope it does, the will of the people of Australia. What does this matter amount to when one examines it at close order? The principle of parliamentary control is under constant dispute by people of high estate. Recently in South Australia the head of the police force denied that he should even accept the advice of the Premier and the Government in what was a fairly important matter but which I would regard as a fairly minor matter when it comes to the point at issue. This is one of the issues that faces Australian democracy. Australia is one of the few countries in which it can be said that Parliament, as the direct executive instrument of the people, can control the situation. 
What have been some examples over the last 10 or 15 years? One example is the establishment in the Army of the pentropic division some 10 or 11 years ago. It is obvious that this was the brain child of the Chief of the General Staff at the time. Also, it is quite obvious that the Minister at the time, who is now the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  did not know what was going on and swallowed this recommendation. For 5 or 6 years the Army was strangled. For the last 10 or 11 years the Citizen Military Force has been practically destroyed partly because of these operations and partly because Ministers for the Army have accepted uncritically the word and the advice of the Chief of the General Staff. Of course, one of the fundamental factors in the Services is that anyone down the line cannot answer back the Chief of the General Staff. How does a brigadier answer back a major-general or a lieutenant-general? How does one set him on a new path? One cannot. This is why it. is so important that the Defence Ministers step into the arena and make themselves completely aware all the time and accept total responsibility. 
I understand that reorganisation is being considered at the moment by the Hassett Committee. How are we to know that the managerial arrangements that will finally be arrived at will be satisfactory to the community? The armed services are not a life of their own; they are an extension of the community and they must not be separate from it. One of the factors in Australian Life which I think has made the armed services, particularly the Army, so closely related to community life is the fact that they have been part of society generally and have been accepted as such. Therefore my first point is the failure of Ministers to control reorganisation programmes. Evidence in Hansard shows that Ministers have not known what is going on. There is also the question of the procurement of materials from Australian manufacturing sources. Minister after Minister has said in this House that he wants to do something about this matter. One found that the one great wish of former Ministers for Defence when one talked with them in private was Australia could get on with the design and manufacture of its own military hardware. This has not happened. Why? What have the Services been doing to keep Ministers at bay all these years? Manufacturers have waited to lay their specifications on the table for such a long time that it has become too late for Australia to do anything about them. 
The Malkara weapon was a case in point. In this instance I believe that the former chief defence scientists went off to private industry because the armed Services were able to fob off the Ministry. They have been able to fob off the Ministry because Ministers have failed to grasp the nettle and take control of the situation. The Australian Labor Party can ' guarantee to the Government that if it wants to involve this Parliament more closely in the control of the Services - parliamentary control through select committees, standing committees or anything else-it will get the absolute and unqualified support of ali honourable members in this House. 
Examples of a lack of ministerial control in the Services are common knowledge. The Minister for Defence, who was formerly Prime Minister, said that the Opposition has not produced any evidence. One would think that, unless the Minister for Defence has been sleeping for the last 20 years, the evidence' would flicker across his mind like a film. What about the situation at Duntroon? lt is only three or four miles away, but nobody knew what was going on. Ministers went out there and helped to bless the guidons, watched marching out parades and took the salute to the rolling of drums and the rattle of artillery, but they did not know what was happening around the place. It is fundamental to the very lifeblood of Australia's armed Services that Duntroon goes forward with a proper attitude. 
When we talk about political direction we mean all sorts of direction. We mean the very principles upon which it is based. Nothing shook the Australian community more than the Four Corners' television programme in which four or five cadets from Duntroon were asked what they would do if they were told to fire on civilians. I think only one gave a direct negative to the question but the others. said they would probably carry out orders. We have the tragedy which is now being played out in the United States of America. What we mean by Parliamentary and civil control of the Services is a sense of direction in which every serviceman knows (hat if he does not carry out the general principles upon which society operates he will be in trouble indeed. I do not need to labour the Duntroon incident. I have only to refer to the points which were raised by the former Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  including the stationing of troops. Why has it taken the Army so long to give a cost analysis of expenditure which would be incurred in placing a base in Western Australia. Who is fooling whom? Who is holding what off? Who is making the decision or trying to hold it up? 
What about the 'Voyager' inquiry? Why was the Naval Board ignorant of what was happening? Why were 2 inquiries necessary? The Naval Board is the instrument of the Minister for the Navy for the control of the Navy. Why was it ignorant? How did it keep him ignorant? Why did he allow it to happen? What about the Army water torture case? At the time the Minister said that there was not a scintilla of evidence that it had happened, but later in the House he said that why he had to say this when some information was in the hands of his advisers was a mystery to him. Then there was the Holsworthy case and the Gunner O'Neill incident. Why did the appropriate Ministers not hear about all these things happening? I do not believe that it is a case of the Ministers not caring. There has been a complete breakdown in what might be described as the morality of Australia's armed Services, particularly the Army. 
Why is it that the FI 1 1 aricraft purchase is being pursued so vigorously when obviously this aircraft is not the kind of apparatus we need. We are not going to bomb anybody any more, lt is unbelievable that Australia would undertake a bombing exercise in South East Asia. It would put us out of court immediately. The Ministry has allowed itself to be continually led by the nose by the armed Services. The same goes for the VIP aircraft incident. The same also goes for the collapse of Army morality in Vietnam at the moment. 1 have come under criticism from a senior Army officer in recent weeks. This is not the time to debate it. 1 will write to him when I have time to do so. The fact is that the Australian Army in particular has allowed its morality to collapse. There is plenty of evidence of this fact - violence, courts martial and murders. These are the direct responsibility of the civil arm and nobody can escape from this fact. When we hand over the young men of Australia we hand over our most precious trusteeship. 
Three young men have been charged with murder. This has never happened before. 
What would the Minister know about this? He does not care. 
The Minister can take his place in the debate and answer these questions if he wishes to do so. The fact is that we have handed to him the most precious trusteeship in our community - young Australian men - and if he is the responsible person he cannot lay the blame for their actions or what happens to them on the Chief of the General Staff. 

 - Mr Speaker, I do not see any reason why the House should agree to any proposition from the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  A few moments ago we saw a classical example of ministerial arrogance. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  led for the Opposition in the debate on a motion in relation to land ordinances in the Australian Capital Territory. The time honoured tradition is that an honourable member who initiates a debate should have the right of reply in that debate. In this instance the Leader of the House gagged the debate. The honourable member for Reid was denied his right to speak. This Parliament can operate only if each of us understands that every honourable member has rights even if that honourable member is not a member of the Government Parties. We have just heard the honourable member- 
Isthe Prime Minister aware that on Friday the Minister for Primary Industry ridiculed the Opposition's suggestion that Army officer cadets should know to refuse an order to fire on civilians if ordered to do so? Does he agree with the Minister for Primary Industry that Australian soldiers should shoot women and children if ordered to do so and obey such orders without question? 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  did not read the extract from my own speech to which I referred. 
I said: 
Nothing shook me Australian community more than the 'Four Corners' television programme in which four or five cadets from Duntroon were asked what they would do if they were told to fire on civilians. I think only one gave a direct negative to the question but the others said they would carry out orders. 
I mentioned the incident in the United States and said: 
What we mean by Parliamentary and civil control of the Services is a sense of direction in which every serviceman knows that if he does not carry out the general principles upon which society operates he will be in trouble indeed. 
That is the question that the Minister ridicules. 
Leave not granted. 
One wonders on occasions such as this how a person such as the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  happened to be elected to an Australian Parliament. But here he is and so we have to take it. Having in mind the degradation that has been visited upon this country, particularly through the National Service Act, by this Government, there was one thing from the exercise last Sunday that cheered me up. Some  200  people rendezvoused in Adelaide and drove to Cadell training centre. We were admitted to the centre. We sat under trees. We erected amplifiers and Charles Martin, who is the victim of the final and most vicious act of aggression that could possibly be inflicted by people like the honourable member for Boothby, came and spoke to us. It was a moving operation in anyone's language. No person with any sympathy, sensitivity or understanding could do anything else but approve of it and be sorry that we have inflicted this upon this young man. That is why I went to Cadell prison centre and I will go every time. I pay all tribute to the officials of the prison service of South Australia and the Government of South Australia. 
I believe that no writ has been commissioned by anyone which authorises the honourable member for Boothby, his Party and his Government to deprive a man of his freedom or his life as is happening under the National Service Act. All I ask the honourable member for Boothby to do is to come to some public meetings when we are debating this matter in public. Perhaps he could step into the court and show that this has something to do with ;ne naval and military defence of Australia. Next time one of my constituents is in court on this issue perhaps the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  would be prepared to come there and stand up and be questioned. Perhaps he could explain how taking these young men to court is in fact an exercise of the power of the Commonwealth over the naval and military defence of Australia. Of course, he will not; of course he cannot. The South Australian Government in my view would be wholly entitled to release this young man from prison altogether and say to the Commonwealth: 'Come and show cause that in fact this is a just and proper exercise of Commonwealth power'. The honourable member for Boothby and his Party have degraded this country in the way in which they have taken on young men such as young Martin and all the others. 
This afternoon various issues have been raised in this debate. I can see that the concepts in which we face questions of law and administration of justice are completely different from those of the people opposite. My friend, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)-  and rightly so - said that in the legislation of this country there is no freedom of speech, there is no right of assembly and that there is no right to anything in fact. It is part of the strength of the community that in fact most of us are not inflicted with injustices all the time. . But there are increasing areas, and this Bill is, an example, in which governments step into the field to try to reduce the areas of free assembly, of free speech and of free association. Therefore we believe that this Bill ought to be withdrawn, taken away and started again. What are all these demonstrations about? The honourable member for Boothby said that people invaded his office. What else are they to do? He will not go out amongst the public and discuss these matters. He is fortunate that he gets  20  or  30  people in his office.. If he called a public meeting to hear the sort of speech he has made tonight he would not get enough to fill a telephone box. This is one of the issues which we face. When will the honourable member go out in public and answer publicly for what he has said and what he does? 
The honourable member for Boothby asked: Why do people invade offices of the Department of Labour and National Service? I agree with the honourable member; 1 do not like the violence of it. But does not the honourable member understand what the Government is doing to the young people of Australia or what is happening to every young man born between 1946 and 1951? Does he not realise that the Government is exercising the ultimate in violence upon all of them? What else can they do but answer in this way? What always puzzles me is what happens to their parents. They are as silent as the grave. What is wrong with the parents of Australia that they let it continue? So what are people who have no vote to do? What can the people dp if they cannot get the honourable member for Boothby or the young man from Chisholm, who ought to be in Vietnam if he were dinkum to come out and answer for it in public. The Government will not let them vote and it will not let them have a say. When they are brought into court the magistrate will not let them speak. What are they to do but demonstrate? I have been in this Parliament for 15 years. I have heard the continual cry of riot, revolution, danger and sedition which has been going on for those 15 years and for 6 or 7 years before that, since the election of a Liberal-Country Party Government. It started about 1947 or 1948. What sort of a picture is the Government trying to give of this country? It says continuously that the country is lawless, disloyal, violent and fear ridden. It is none of those things. If there is one country in the world that is basically law abiding it is this one. If there is one country that is unfortunately too conformist I think it is this one. If there is one country that is easy to handle it is this one. 
I have bad experience in the teaching services and in the armed services, as a public figure and as a person who has marched down streets at the head of demonstrations, who has taken part in some that could have become violent, who has had long and close associations with the police force, in Victoria in particular, and in this community. I am pretty certain from all my experience in life that there is no real difficulty in keeping the Australian people on the tracks, law abiding and non violent, if they are treated as human beings as they are entitled to be treated. The former Attorney-General, fortunately or unfortunately, has been removed from his high estate. One might ask: Why is this legislation brought in now? The Federation has been in existence for about 70 years. Some of the legislation has been on the books since 1372, or somewhere back in the fourteenth century. Is this Bill the product of hysteria, politics, a dangerous situation such as the Canadian Government saw in Quebec, genuine concern for the freedom of the subject, or is it law reform? The Minister in his speech seemed to imply that it was all of these things. He did not say that he was hysterical but we know that he can get hysterical when he is faced in public with some of the products of his own mismanagement of the law of Australia. 
I believe that the Bill is principally the product of politics. I do not think enough thought has gone into it or that any of the other principles upon which law ought to be based are in fact present in it. I do not believe that it shows genuine concern for the principles upon which this country has been designed and ought to go forward. I believe that, except for clause 25, there is not any indication of the reform of the law. So it is an attempt to foster hysteria in the community. Honourable members know perfectly well from the statements made and the fear that the Government attempts to engender in the public that the legislation is based upon the idea that the community is hysterical. The Government is using that to its political advantage. The honourable member for Lalor says that we are on the thin edge of the police state. I think that is true enough. It is true that the law always seems to be weighted towards severity and ease of proof so that in the end the customer who is on the receiving end is put in a very disadvantageous position. 
It is one of the tributes to our system of justice that over the centuries there has been a consistent effort by people administering the law - judges in the courts, even attorneys-general and people conservative and non conservative - to attempt to make sure that the law shall presume that a person is innocent until proved guilty. Under this legislation there is the presumption that a person is guilty from the start. The 
Minister said that he would clarify and simplify the law and mitigate the sentences. He defined an unlawful assembly, a rout and a riot. I am glad of this, because these are subjects on which one can always be better informed. The Minister said that some elements in the law need changing. There are 6 or 8 of them in Australia. But I do not think that this legislation does that. 
I ask honourable members opposite: Who are the people of violence in the community? Who are the people who are visiting violence upon us continuously? Who are the people who are prepared to use all the power of the law to suppress just union claims? Who are the people who are silent about the mine managers at Broken Hill yet are as noisy as they can be about the water supply workers in Sydney? Who are the people who call out the police on every occasion? Who are the people who keep hanging on the statute books? Of course the ultimate human values will always be safe while  Sir Henry  Bolte reigns south of the Murray. He said the other day that he would not abolish Hogging. What are the ultimates of violence if those violences visited upon the community by governments such as this one are not the ultimates in violence? That is why people react. They react to violence with violence. It is one of the fundamental characteristics of a human being, that the act of violence induces one to react violently. 
We should be trying to produce a situation in which the police are not associated with violence. Do not tell me that the police are not unduly rough on many occasions. I believe that the police are unduly delicate about some things. We saw on television during the Moratorium Campaign in Sydney that one young man gave a Nazi salute to the police. He was immediately pounced upon as though he were ready to throw a bomb on somebody. Why can one not give a Nazi salute to the police force? There are some very good expolicemen in this House. Why can one not call them 'mug coppers' without being lumbered? It is not my kind of language, but why can one say: 'You are a mug Prime Minister,' and get away with it if one cannot say such a thing to a policeman? Because of the touch of delicacy inherent in all police forces one would be arrested for offensive behaviour. I believe that in a lot of these matters we are just too touchy. The elements of peace and good order are associated very closely with how the police carry out their duties. All these things which place policemen in impossible positions - deciding whether it is a lawful occasion, whether it is likely to cause apprehension and dismay in the ranks of the community or not - are not the kind of rights we ought to give policemen. They are not the kind of duties we ought to impose on them. 
Some years ago I saw a film about France under the Nazi regime. I think it was called 'Paris Is Burning'. In the course of it the Nazis walked along a railway station and herded people into trains with Alsatians. Everybody groaned with horror at the thought. It was a most formidable sight. Several years ago the Bolte Government in Victoria hanged Ronald Ryan, for a dreadful crime admittedly. But thousands of us thought and still think that hanging should not take place. On the evening before the hanging the Victorian police went around the prison, where hundreds of people had gathered, with Alsatians on leashes. I believe that we are all in duty bound to see that this kind of violence, this threat of violence or what might be called 'police roughness' does not prevail. The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  spoke about democratic processes. What democratic processes? Is he going to tell me that Queensland is democratic, with Premier Bjelke-Petersen running it the way he does and representing nobody as he does, or that Victoria is democratic with  Sir Henry  Bolte who cannot even get an absolute majority in his own electorate running that State? He has 37 per cent of the vote and exercises absolute power. 
What we are seeing here is the product of reaction to the degradations of Government policy which have produced undue reaction in the community because there is no other way of answering them. South Africa is an example of this sort of thing. We see the continual degradation - that is the only word I can use to describe it - resulting from the policy in South Africa. The honourable member for Boothby is full of sympathy for the people at the South African Embassy. I am a friendly, tolerant soul, a Socialist who does not visit violence on anybody. I do not like to see people harassed. But every time I think like that I must stop and ask: What do they do to the millions of Africans? I do not like vandalism and paint on fences. But somehow we have to visit the sins of people upon them in some way so that they will go and try to change the system. 
The same applies to national service. On Monday of last week in the City Court in Melbourne John Varley of my electorate was charged with failing to register under the National Service Act and with not turning up for his medical examination. John Varley is the ultimate conscientious objector, but he is not a pacifist. Therefore he cannot prove, and he would not try to prove, conscientious objection under the present Act. In the court there was nothing he could do. There we all were. He tried to state his case as to why he resisted the National Service Act. The magistrate would not listen. Eventually he was quiet. The magistrate sat up there like Buddha or the Lord himself in his high, exalted position and wrote for 3 or 4 minutes. Then he said to this young man: 'On the first charge you are fined £100. On the second you are sentenced to 7 days imprisonment.' The honourable member for Boothby might go into court some day when this happens. The magistrate himself exercised no sympathy in the way he issued the sentence. Immediately the sentence was pronounced, instead of one policeman walking over and saying: 'Come this way, lad', 4 of them bore down upon him as if he were the culprit in some violent crime. The next thing he was being dragged from the court with one policeman holding each arm and one holding each leg.  His  mother and sister were in tears and the whole court was in dismay. 
I say to honourable members opposite: What manner of men are you? What is wrong with the lot of you? I say: You have no conscience, no understanding and no sensitivity. That is why we have this Bill here and why we reject it. Let us take some of the points in the Bill that have been amply debated here today - for example, the decisions about what the definitions are. It would be worth while reading some of the definitions. Honourable members opposite can do that later. Then there is the definition of what is an assembly and the definition of what is apprehension in the community. We can look also at the authority that is to be conferred upon such an exalted person as a police officer who holds the rank of sergeant The right is to be given to a person to take reasonable action, by violence if necessary, to prevent something else happening. What kind of laws are these for this Parliament to pass? Then, of course, we are discussing the question of trespass. My friend the former Attorney-General says that moderate criminal sanctions are necessary. I ask the House to consider carefully this question of penalties and the way the courts are to implement these penalties. 
Peter Gavin is a close friend of mine who lives in Pascoe Vale. Last September he and a number of students from the La Trobe University marched out of the university down a very wide street. Before very long they were assailed by the police. The evidence of what took place is ample. People later saw photographs of a similar operation. It is obvious that the police were the aggressors. Peter Gavin, who is a very quiet, peaceful young man was hailed into court. He did not just have his name taken. So we challenge the question of arrest. For heaven's sake, the police should stop arresting these people. Ninetynine out of 100 of them are not going to run away. It would be sufficient to take their name and address. My office is close enough to Pentridge Gaol to see what mischief these arrests cause. Peter Gavin was fined $100 and sentenced to 14 days gaol for allegedly throwing a stone at the police. Two others were charged that day and 19 on a subsequent occasion. 
The honourable member for Boothby said that the honourable member for Lalor was of doubtful veracity when he challenged the veracity of the police. In this instance the police obviously gave false evidence. The evidence was such that when the case went to the higher court the judge not only remitted the fine but quashed the sentence. Peter Gavin was acquitted of the charge because the evidence was in conflict. The police officers could not even agree on the colour of the lad's clothes. Let us consider what other hardship was caused by the arrest of this person. It cost his family a total of at least $354 in trying to defend him. 
I believe that we ought not to pass in this House any legislation which confers upon a single man, whether it be a judge, a magistrate or a justice of the peace, the right to gaol another. Therefore I hope that we will go through the Bill with a fine tooth comb and remove all those clauses which provide that on summary conviction a person can go to gaol. I put this forward as a piece of social philosophy and not particularly as a political partisan statement. I presume that in these instances none of us is desirous of inflicting hardship upon people unnecessarily. My office is close to Pentridge Gaol and I see many instances of people who have been taken into court and who have obviously received a very poor trial indeed or people who have been picked up by the police, arrested and gaoled by a magistrate in a most unjust manner. Therefore I believe we ought to reject the totality of this law because it does not answer any of the questions that honourable members opposite have placed before us. I remind honourable members opposite that although there are all these elements in the community, as the honourable member for Lalor said we are on the thin edge of a police state. There are still many things which should demand our attention. The exercise at the Cadell training prison last week is one such matter. 
Again I suggest to my friends opposite that they should read very carefully the facts of the case in which the honourable member for Reid was involved when he charged a police officer with assault. I ask them to read the facts very carefully and see what chance the ordinary mortal has in the lower court. I reject the Bill, except for perhaps those parts which repeal archaic legislation. I particularly will reject for myself and in any way I can those provisions of it which place upon the lower courts powers of imprisonment, which I do not think they ought to have, and which place in the hands of officials, whether it be the Attorney-General, a police sergeant or someone else, the right to decide whether a case will proceed or not and the right to decide on some of our fundamental and absolutely inalienable democratic rights. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has consideration been given to the employment of Australian Forces construction units on road building in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
I wish to raise a matter of privilege relating to the commitment to prison of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  The Constitution of the Commonwealth, Section 49, states: 
The powers, privileges, and immunities of the Senate and of the House of Representatives, and of the members and the committees of each House, shall be such as are declared by the Par liament, and until declared shall be those of the Commons House of Parliament of the United Kingdom, and of its members and committees, at the establishment of the Commonwealth. 
This House not having made any special provision for a situation such as this, it is clear that the privileges of the members of the House of Commons apply to each member of this Parliament. Therefore the commitment of the honourable member for Reid to prison in these circumstances was a breach of that privilege and I believe that the Privileges Committee ought to examine it. 
The situation is that the honourable member for Reid was committed to prison, under a warrant, the day before Easter. As you,  Mr Speaker,  have announced, on5th January, as a result of a court action in which he was unsuccessful, costs were awarded against the honourable member for Reid. This, of course, is the important issue. He was ordered to pay costs of $80. He was not fined; be was ordered to pay costs. So it was ordinarily a civil debt that the honourable member for Reid incurred. I presume that he will take some exception to what I am doing here, as in no way has he set himself out on a course of selfmartyrdom. But privilege is the property of all of us. He went down and reported to the police that he was available to meet the costs, I suppose one could say, that is, he placed himself at their disposal as he was not prepared to pay the costs, the result being that he was to spend 40 days in prison. He did this to comply with the court order. He did not go there because he enjoys prisons or anything of that sort, as I understand it. If he did not do so, 1 would expect that he would be in contempt of court. 
I believe that this Parliament must take action to protect its membership in accordance with the procedures that have been laid down over the centuries by the House of Commons. The difficulty that we face, of course, is that we have failed to act on privilege over the years. Ever since I entered this Parliament we have had it on the agenda somewhere. We were going to do something about privilege. We were going to do something about all these things and bring them into order. Oddly enough, we have done so in regard to other legislative assemblies for which we are responsible. For instance, we have clarified this matter in the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Ordinance of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, as we have done in the case of the Northern Territory. That Ordinance states: 
A person shall not, upon a day in respect of which this section applies, arrest a member upon any civil process. 
This section applies in respect of - 
a day fixed by resolution of the House or otherwise to be a day on which the House will sit; 
the three days immediately preceding such a day; and 
the three days immediately following such a day. 
The House of Commons has been operating for centuries. It is much more liberal one might say, in regard to the time in which a member may not be under arrest. I suggest that honourable members take a look at 'May's Parliamentary Practice'. On this matter it states: 
The privilege of freedom from arrest or molestation of members of Parliament, which is of great antiquity, was of proved indispensability, first to the service of the Crown, and now to the functioning of each House. . . . 
Then it is all set out at page 67 of the edition I have here. It is clear enough that the objective was to prevent anyone from being able to stop members attending on the Parliament because that was much more important than anything else which that member might have to do. May states quoting Hatsell Precedents and Proceedings in the House of Commons:  . . their attendance is more peculiarly essential to the Court of Parliament, the first and highest court in this kingdom, that the Members, who compose it, should not be prevented by trifling interruptions from their attendance on this important duty, but should, for a certain time, be excused from obeying any other call, not so immediately necessary for the great services of the nation: It has been therefore, upon these principles, always claimed and allowed, that the Members of both Houses should be, during their attendance in Parliament, exempted from several duties, and not considered as liable to some legal processes, to which otter citizens, not intrusted with this most valuable franchise, are by law obliged to pay obedience. 
As far as the duration of privilege is concerned, it is set out as being 40 days before and after the meeting of sessions. 
I would think that even the least knowing citizen in this place would consider that the privilege of the Parliament, particularly in a case such as this, was important enough to deserve his attention. May states: 
With regard to Members of the House of Commons, 'the time of privilege' has been repeatedly mentioned in statutes, but never explained. It is stated by Blackstone and others, and has been the general opinion (founded, probably, upon the ancient law and custom, by which writs of summons for a Parliament were always issued at least forty days before its appointed meeting), that the privilege of freedom from arrest remains with a member of the House of Commons 'for forty days after every prorogation, and forty days before the next appointed meeting'; and this extent of privilege has been allowed by the courts of law, on the ground of usage and universal opinion. 
It is obvious, then, that the honourable member for Reid was covered by the privilege of this Parliament. We may say that the time element allowed in those statutes is out of date now, but the fact is that whoever issued and carried out these operations was in breach of the privilege of this Parliament. The magistrate should have known this when he set out the procedure. The law officers who accepted the honourable member into custody or advised that he be accepted into custody should have known. The prison officials should have known. The important thing of course is that we must not allow anything to prevent honourable members from attending this place. To do so could be a threat to the parliamentary system. It would not be unique for some obstacles to be placed in the way of honourable members in order to prevent them carying out their duties. This could lead to the disruption of government and even the defeat of a government. Recently in Victoria 5 people were sent to prison whilst others who committed the same sin, if that is what it was, were allowed to go free - were not even charged in any way. That is a kind of government by selective malice. The danger of which I speak is apparent in a Parliament which is often just about equally divided. The arrest and incarceration of three or four members for a fortnight or so could make a fundamental difference to the government of the country. I believe that the Committee of Privileges should examine this matter thoroughly and I therefore move: 
That the matter of the commitment to prison of the honourable member for Reid be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
 Id moving this dissent- 
At that stage the then Minister for Labour and National Service moved that the question be put, which stifled any kind of discussion on the matter. The matter was taken further. The honourable member for Wills attempted to ascertain on what authority some of the decisions had been made. Finally at a point when the honourable member for Wills was told to sit down, having tried for  12  minutes to have his point of view put forward, the following exchange took place: 
1 will not stop talking. 
No. The facts are that the  Speaker  chose- 
On that occasion the honourable member for Wills had undergone an experience of  10  or  12  minutes duration in which he was refused by the Government and by you,  Mr Speaker,  in co-operation with the Government, a reasonable opportunity to put forward his point of view on at least a dozen or  20  occasions. I think this was a way in which the opportunities of the Opposition were stifled and it accords with the evidence that has been submitted, par ticularly by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in giving a summary of the total number of occasions on which you,  Mr Speaker,  have intervened against the Opposition and in favour of the Government. 
Then we have yet another case in which the honourable member for Oxley was suspended from the service of the House He had asked a question about a productivity index, arising out of a speech that the then Minister for Labour and National Service had made to the Committee for Economic Development. The Minister went on to take up more than a column and a half of a page in Hansard to answer that question but the answer did not relate to the question at all. The Minister spoke about anything else that he thought might be of political advantage to the Government. He spoke about the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions having made a statement on a  35-hour  working week and asked whether the Opposition supported that statement. He spoke about the political strikes with which unions had been associated, the strike in support of the speech on the Budget by the Leader of the Opposition and the unity ticket that was established by unions and the Opposition. He went on to speak about a national stoppage in support of the moratorium. He spoke about all these things in reply to a question about a productivity index. 
That type of reply is typical of those which have been given during the time in which you have been the  Speaker,  and increasingly so. I submit that this has resulted in a stifling of the opportunities ot the Opposition to put its case. J submit that this has resulted in an undue freedom for Ministers and others on the Government side to use and misuse the procedures of this House for their own political advantage. At best this has been deliberately done. On many occasions we have seen Ministers moving from their place, very often the Prime Minister, to have  j.  discussion with you,  Mr Speaker,  while you have been in the Chair. It would seem that there is a connection between these discussions and what has happened before them or what happens very soon after the Minister or honourable member returns to his place in the chamber. On many of the occasions when members of the Opposition have moved from their place to speak to you in the Chair, it has not been for tha purpose of getting your advice, as the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  suggested; it has been to make complaints to you time and time again about things that have happened in this House. You will be well aware that that is the case. I believe that unless the Standing Orders are applied more fairly, at question time in particular, the amount of disorder that occurs in this House can never be explained. It is because of the unfair way in which standing orders have been applied at question time that most of the disorder to which you as  Speaker  have objected and most of the action that you have taken to deal with it have arisen. 
I submit that you have permitted and encouraged the disorder, as you would claim it to be, that has occurred on this side of the House by the way in which you have permitted Ministers to misuse question time in such a way that there is no one member of the Opposition who would be worth his position here if he were not prepared to show his objection to it. I submit also that unless there is a fairer interpretation of the standing orders, and particularly the standing orders to which I referred and which carefully confine questions within limits and carefully exclude certain things which cannot be suggested or asked in them, it is completely fair and reasonable to expect that you will apply the same spirit in limiting the answers in that way. 
I think you said on one occasion when I raised this question that if I wanted to have standing order 145 - which provides that answers shall be relevant - strictly applied then this would restrict unduly much of that which members on both sides of the House want to do. I do not want a narrow and strict application of this standing order. However, I want a more fair application of it. I think that the answer you gave on that occasion was no answer at all. The answer that you should give is that a reasonable standard of relevance will be applied in this House to the answers made by Ministers to questions. Unless a reasonable standard of relevance is applied I think that your performance of the office of Speaker is open to question. I think it is completely proper that this should be questioned, now that the matter has been brought out into the open for examination. 
The Government, on your behalf, has not answered those accusations. No-one has tried to prove that the figures given by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition are incorrect. You have only been praised in the answer to the Opposition's motion. The Government has failed to support its case. 
Does not the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  understand what prison means? If you are in gaol for 3 months that is a dreadful penalty. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I think that  the  honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  indicated the difficulties in which people faced with  a  situation of this nature would be when he said that he had never practised - or  whatever  one does - in a court of petty sessions. He would be reasonably not au fait - I was nearly going to say ignorant, but that would not be the correct term - with what goes on. My impression is that the ordinary citizens who end up in such  a  position would have no idea of their rights. In 50 per cent of the cases these citizens would be unlikely to have legal representation. Therefore everything must be written into the legislation itself to protect their rights. It is no good the Attorney-General saying that a citizen can do this or that something else will happen; the rights of a citizen have to be written into the legislation. The debate this evening has demonstrated that the AttorneyGeneral and perhaps the officers of his Department but most certainly the people behind him have no idea of the situation that faces an ordinary citizen who is in court under these circumstances. 
Again this is an example of the use of this contingency motion which I believe transcends the spirit of the Standing Orders. It seems to me that the system of placing on the notice paper a bag of generalised statements in order to get round the Standing Orders is against the spirit of them. The House ought not to accept this situation and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  should not follow this course. The procedures of this House have been developed over a long period in order to protect the House and everybody beyond it against hasty judgments - so that there might be proper deliberation in which everybody takes a part. This is an example of this continual tinkering with the system. The House ought to reject the motion moved by the Minister. The Standing Orders Committee and all honourable members involved ought to take a very close look at the spirit of this idea of a contingency motion. I think that a contingency notice of motion of this kind offends the whole spirit of the English language and the Standing Orders. 
I would like to continue the remarks of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)-  not perhaps with his eloquence or clarity - although we are not dealing with a Bill that has anything to do with clarity. The Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  or his predecessor described the Bill as contributing to clarify as far as the law is concerned. On the question of unreasonable obstruction the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory said that the Bill attempts to define one right, the lawful right of passage along a street. Anything that obstructs that is an unreasonable obstruction. From the definition, an 'unreasonable obstruction' means just that: an unreasonable obstruction. One of the main contributions of this legislation and one of the principal reasons why we oppose it is the continuing labouring of the 
English language in order to define the indefinable. What exactly do we mean by an unreasonable obstruction? Do we mean the enjoyment, including rights of passage, of a public street? 
Is it an unreasonable obstruction if a person displays things for sale in a shop window which create great interest and causes a crowd to gather, thus stopping people moving along the street? Honourable members might say that it is not. After all, the display is there for a purpose. But what is the position if the thing displayed in the window is a nude picture to which honourable members might object or something like that which draws crowds from the Liberal Party and such places? Would that be an unreasonable obstruction? The whole objection to the Bill is embodied in its terminology. It is not good English. It is not a good definition. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has worked out a definition. I do not know whether one can define these things. An unreasonable obstruction is just that. But the whole system that is being perpetrated is unreasonable. 1 wish that honourable members opposite would stop and take a look at the ordinary rights to which people in the community are heirs. It is true that the right of lawful passage seems to have become much more of an inalienable right than the right to lots of other things. There are all sorts of ways of going around when somebody blocks a street, but there are no ways of giving out a leaflet in certain areas if one is prevented from doing it because, it is considered to be an unreasonable obstruction. On the evidence 1 have from visiting courts of law and watching the results, particularly in the lower courts, I believe that there is no possibility of justice of any sort flowing from language such as this or a law such as this. Therefore the whole law ought to be rejected. But I believe that, as the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has said, we are labouring the point; we are attempting to graft on to existing legislation systems of public relations which are completely irrelevant. 1 would like the Minister to explain exactly what he means by the definition of 'unrea sonable obstruction' and why he needs to labour such simple straightforward terms as that for simple unstraightforward magistrates who are perhaps to interpret them. 
The Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has much more faith than I have in the lower courts which will be making judgments in respect of this provision. I do not know what his experience in that field is. It may be ample, although I would expect that he has probably been appearing in a rarer atmosphere over recent years, f refer- to the recent incident in Victoria where a magistrate had to interpret the law in respect of people who were giving out leaflets in a building in Melbourne. What was the situation? Five women were giving out leaflets in a building in Melbourne. They were charged under a Victorian law. Let us presume that the law is there and that, therefore, it ought to be applied. The matter came before the court and the magistrate, as I understand it, had the power either to fine those women up to $500 or order them to serve 6 months in prison. He judged that case on the kind of judgment that the Attorney-General expects a magistrate to use. The magistrate sentenced those people to 14 days gaol. Now, on no reasonable ground could one sentence people of that sort to imprisonment for an offence of that kind, no matter how big the leaflets were or how vigorously they denounced the Government. 
As 1 have pointed out in this House before, my office is not far from the Pentridge Prison. Practically every day that I am in my office I come across instances of people needing to be bailed out of that prison. In most cases these people have either had a prohibitive bail fixed by the justice of the peace or the magistrate or been discharged when, in the end, the term of imprisonment for the offence is challenged before a higher court. I do not believe that we should place upon magistrates courts, justices of the peace or any other body of that type the requirement to make the kind of judgment that the AttorneyGeneral is asking them to make in this instance, particularly in an area of public controversy such as this. I believe that we are trespassing into an area in which the Parliament, instead of being prohibitive, inhibitive and restrictive, ought to be protecting people's rights as my friend from the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and my friend from Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  said. We should not be trying to restrict those rights. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 (When assembly is 'in relation to' protected premises or a protected person) 
To illustrate the argument put by the Opposition in relation to clause 5 one needs only to take the example of the situation in Canberra outside the South African Embassy. There, a number of people have been on, what we might term, vigil for some weeks. If there are 10 of those people present and 2 people are walking by, we have the necessary dozen persons to be classified as an assembly. As my friend from the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  points out in relation to clause 21 (1.), the point is not made that the passersby taken before a court were not there to demonstrate outside the South African Embassy. As far as I can see from the reading of this Bill the prosecution has to prove only that they were there. The fact that they were there is proof that they were there for the purposes of the Act. I believe this is a very dangerous attitude. Does not the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  understand how the law operates in situations where there are lots of people involved and where the police, if they have this reasonable apprehension; can take action against a crowd? Dozens of innocent bystanders are picked up and taken off to prisons and lockups every Saturday night. Does the Attorney-General not know that? Does he never go into the cities and suburbs where this kind' of operation takes place of a Saturday night? Reasonable apprehension in the eyes of the police in these cases is often satisfied by the fact that there are people present. The people are picked up and taken off. 
Do not say it does not happen and do not say it does not happen every Saturday night in the major cities of Australia. This is what could happen outside the South African Embassy. In Canberra we have dozens of protected places. All along Mugga Way there are protected places. If any people assemble in these areas for any purpose at all they may well be charged under this proposed law. My objection, apart from an objection to the whole approach of the Government, is that where we have an area of law which has to be interpreted by police on the spot and by magistrates in the courts it is almost inevitable that serious injustices and hardships will flow to innocent people and we should not tolerate this. 
Sub-clause (1.) of this clause includes this heartening evidence of the justice of honourable members opposite: 
Where persons taking part in an assembly that is in a Territory or is wholly or partly on Commonwealth premises conduct themselves, in the Territory or on the Commonwealth premises, in a way that gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the assembly will be carried on in a manner involving unlawful physical violence to persons or unlawful damage to property, each of those persons is guilty of an offence, punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding Two hundred and fifty dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months, or both. 
I take it that a person charged with an offence could be charged in a lower court. I ask my legal adviser, the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  whether that is the position. I note that the Minister nods his assent. The principle upon which I propose to look at any legislation which conies before the Parliament- 

 - Mr Chairman, honourable members opposite make a greater contribution to parliamentary government when they are asleep or outside. I am asking honourable members to look at the simple proposition that no person on his own unaided judgment or unqualified judgment should be able to send another person to prison. For too long we have permitted legislation- 
I am putting the proposition, as a principle of law, that no person should be able to send another person to prison. This means that in a lower court where only a magistrate or a justice of the peace is sitting, he should not be able to impose prison sentences. If a prison sentence of 1 day, 20 years or life is to be inflicted on a person, this should be a matter for a jury. In the past it may well have been that people regarded prison sentences lightly. I have never heard or thought that that was so. I believe that a prison sentence of no matter what length is a completely different quality of punishment from a fine or anything else and we should not, in our judicial system, tolerate the imprisonment of one man by another. I put this as a proposition on which we should base all legal questions in this place. I will not argue the verbiage of the clause. My friend, the member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  is probably better qualified to do that, but, as I have pointed out on many occasions, from the evidence that I and my friends have seen of judgments in the lower courts we must not allow to continue a system wherein one man can, on his own unqualified judgment, send another person to prison. 
I am a firm believer in the jury system, lt has been tested over the centuries. Imprisonment is of such a quality of punishment that it should be regarded as a most serious matter to' send a person to prison for even one day. We must not tolerate legislation of this nature on our statute books. 
I wish to make some brief remarks. One of the more disappointing features of tonight's debate is that none of the people on the other side of the House have taken part in the second reading of the Bill, although they earlier spent a lot of time patting one another on the back. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  has been flattered by the people opposite for all his remarks. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  also has been flattered. Why are none of them explaining exactly why we are departing from the principle of trial by jury in cases where people are being sent to prison? My friends the honourable members for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  have asked questions. Why are honourable members opposite not answering the questions that have been placed before the House by these honourable members? Why is there no answer from the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  erudite as I understood him to be before he became a Minister? Why has not the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  spoken? Is Boggo Road full of his customers so that he cannot explain the principles here? Why are we not receiving answers from all the people who must accept the responsibility for this serious departure from the general principles from justice? Are they under a hollow log or under the mat? Where have they gone? Why have they buried their concieces when we come to these issues? 
Clause 10 (1.) states: 
A person who, in a Territory or on Commonwealth premises, while taking part in an assembly and without lawful excuse - 
has in his possession a weapon, a missile or a destructive, noxious or repulsive object or substance; 
discharges or uses a weapon or throws a missile; 
And so on. This is simply a continuation of all those things that we have been debating tonight. The most disgusting thing about this operation, apart from the behaviour of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who is the  Deputy  Whip on the Government side of the House, is the absolute and unqualified silence of the people opposite. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  at an earlier stage of the debate held up this legislation as a wonderful exercise in democracy. When it came to generalities he was all right but when it came to specifics he was silent. What about the honourable member for Diamond Vally  (Mr Brown)?  Where was his voice tonight when it came to defending these things? 
What about the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  who was the man who fathered this Bill and who is now disclaiming all paternity? He is as silent as the grave. First of all, as far as I can see, the essence of the contract is the disgraceful conduct of the people opposite. The Government has prejudiced the work of the Parliament by the continuing use of the gag. Each one of these clauses contains some very valuable principles which ought to be debated. What is wrong with the place? What is wrong with people who want to behave like this? The people go out into the streets because they feel they have to. We have reduced politics to the politics of confrontation. Unless people get out and wave flags and banners and march they feel completely helpless in the face of such operations. What can we do here in the face of such operations? 
I do not know whether the Opposition will vote against this clause. I propose to exercise my rights under the Standing Orders.  Mr Chairman,  I think that you were a little cavalier in the way in which you put the last clause. I hadintended to exercise my rights under standing order 193 and have my dissent recorded in Hansard. I will not vote willingly for anything that includes the rights of lower courts to send people to gaol, particularly for offences such as this. I will not surrender my right to speak in this place and I will not place my imprimateur on the right of one man to imprison another, no matter how lucid the explanations of the honourable member for Moreton might be. These are the matters before the House tonight - the rights, privileges and freedoms of the community. 
It is worth while looking at the Liberal Party policy and seeing what it says. That Party stands for freedom of speech, freedom of the individual and the rights of democracy. What a mockery! Honourable members opposite have subverted everything that democracy stands for. They have reduced this country to a state of derision as far as these things are concerned. We are debating these matters at this hour of the night because the AttorneyGeneral has not the energy, the guts or the enterprise to organise it so that we could debate the Bill continuously. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Yesterday he spent a good deal of time weeping crocodile tears for the small people of the world, in particular those in Taiwan. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of tho Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
I wonder whether the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  has really read the Bill and the schedules and understands what their implications are. 
That is right. I ask honourable members: Why is it that we are to inflict on the people of Papua New Guinea the usurious interest rates involved in this legislation by the control that we place in the hands of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development? Why is it we are to inflict on the unfortunate consumers in Papua New Guinea the final costs of this loan? That is why I rise this afternoon. It is true that the project for which this money is needed will be a valuable contributor to New Guinea's future. 
Yes. The honourable member for Hume has given his commendation to the Bill, but the Bill will inflict on the people of Papua New Guinea greater costs in the form of interest. They are continuing interest rates. These costs have been forced upon the Australian railways system for the last half century or so, and we know what that has done to the whole system. 
It is true that we are to build a very large power station in the Ramu Valley and that it will extend transmission systems up through Lae, Goroka, Madang and Mount Hagen. It is true that the supply of electricity and power to this country is improving. It is equally true that Papua New Guinea has great resources to permit the production of hydro-power, which ought to be exploited. The whole project will cost $30m of which we are to borrow $20m. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to the terms of the loan. Firstly, let' us have a look at the Schedules to the Bill. If honourable members have bothered to look at the Bill they will find that it contains Schedules. We have surrendered sovereignty absolutely under the terms of the schedules. The honourable member for Hume said that Australia is doing a great job in this regard. I forget the exact words he used. However, Australia is not doing anything in this regard. Australia is guaranteeing a loan which is at usurious rates of interest for a developing country which cannot possibly afford to pay them. On other points we surrender our sovereignty. This is a typical banker's document. Just consider some of the items that are contained in the Schedules to the Bill. Section 2.03 of the Third Schedule, which deals with the question of contractors, states: 
In carrying out the Project, ELCOM shall, in respect of contracts in excess of $ A 100,000 equivalent, employ contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Why has Australia come to the stage where it has to be in mortgage, shall we say, to the International Bank? Surely to goodness there is some system by which the Australian Government is able to be the guarantor and the agent in these matters. I do not believe that we ought to allow this kind of legislation to pass through this House unchallenged. 
I have dealt with the question of contractors. Let us come to this gem. Article 3 of the Third Schedule deals with the management and operations of ELCOM. Subsection (d) of section 3.01 states that ELCOM shall:   . . consult the Bank before making any new appointments to the positions of General Manager, Assistant General Manager (Finance and Administration) and Assistant General Manager (Engineering). 
So the International Bank, a mighty authority surely - some godhead apparently in the eyes of the people opposite - has greater capacity in the matters of supervision and in agency than the Australian Government itself which has been concerned with the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Scheme and many other projects. Australia has a very fine record in the construction of all manner of works. Australia has been involved in projects involving electricity, dams and so on. In this case we are to hand that authority over to the International Bank. 
I have no doubt that in normal circumstances the Bank will not exercise its authority and impose any great restraint upon the authority. But I believe it is a pretty poor tribute to the Australian Government and the Australian people that we" intend to allow the Bank these powers. But here is the real rub. I wonder whether the honourable member for Hume has read section 4.03 which is contained in Article IV of the Third Schedule? Presumably he has not. This section states: 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ELCOM shall: (i) make no reduction in its existing level of tariffs for electric power services from the date of this Agreement until June 30, 1976; and (ii) take all necessary steps to establish and maintain tariffs for electric power services and take such other actions as shall be required to provide revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return of not less than 9 per cent in the fiscal years 1972 through 1976 and not less than 10 per cent thereafter. 
In no way can this become a social objective in Papua New Guinea. It has to be an economic question based upon the economic cliches which are currently used in the world of accountants, economists, bankers and so on. Therefore, in the 3 important areas of contractors, appointments to senior positions and rates we are surrendering all sovereignty. 
Why is it that we inflict these standards upon these people of Papua New Guinea? Is that what we do to the people of Australia? In today's 'Australian Financial Review' under the heading: 'Semigovernment loans in Melbourne.' An article stated that interest paid on loans by the Melbourne Board of Works was  5i  per cent. Another semi-government body offered  5i  per cent. A rate of 5 per cent was another. The article went on to point out that the State Electricity Commission offered 5i per cent. How is it that we tolerate a situation in which we inflict upon the people of Papua New Guinea a rate of 7i per cent to 7i per cent? An advertisement appears in one of today's newspapers which states that the rate for the State Electricity Commission of New South Wales is  7i  per cent. The schedule of Australian Commonwealth loan raisings which was recently distributed shows that loans for July 1969 ran at 5.4 per cent to 6 per cent; September 1969, 5.4 per cent to  6  per cent; and February 1970, 5.6 per cent to 6 per cent How is it that we are prepared to tolerate a system under which a developing country, and one that will find every cent hard to raise, will be burdened with this rate of interest? I would advise honourable members to visit Papua New Guinea in the next few months so that they may see what the last loan did in that country for posts and telegraphs. Up until a few months ago one could post a letter in Papua New Guinea for 5c Despite the aberrations of this Government the rate in Australia has risen to only 6c. But when I visited Papua and New Guinea last week I found that the letter rate in Papua New Guinea had been raised to 7c. So in a community which has one of the lowest wage scales in this part of the world we now have one of the highest postal rates. The unit fee call on a telephone in the Territory is 12 cents. 
I believe that one of the vital elements in a democratic community is intercommunication between citizen and citizen, between government and citizen and between citizen and government. In this instance we have inflicted on the people of Papua New Guinea a heavy impost in the form of high telephone charges. I do not believe we can support, such an increase. Honourable members and the House generally ought to take a good, close look at the system under which we are operating. Of course, this situation will also apply to electricity. High tariff charges for electricity will be inflicted upon the people of Papua New Guinea. They will pay higher tariff charges for their electricity than do people in Australia, and our charges have gone high enough. What I want to know is this: Why do we adopt this double standard in Papua New Guinea? We are told continually and plausibly by the economists and their apologists in government circles that we cannot raise the wage rates in Papua New Guinea because the economy will not support it. They say it might be all right to do this now when we give Papua New Guinea a big subvention and therefore things are perhaps different. They argue that if wage rates were increased now the economy of the Territory might survive, but come independence the country would not be able to support a higher wage rate. If this is the case how is it that we are to inflict upon the people of the Territory a higher cost system? Why is it that the economy of a nation at large can only support low wages but the economy of the private individual is supposed to support high prices? What we are doing, I believe, with this legislation is inflicting upon the people of Papua New Guinea a system which will prevent them from enjoying the full benefit of the electric power which would make a great difference to the standard of living of all the people there as well as to the production of the country. 
I hope that this will be the last occasion on which we will allow the people of Papua New Guinea to be mulcted in this way by the International Bank. I wonder why we cannot allow Papua New Guinea to raise money on the Australian internal system in the same way as do local government authorities in Australia? Why can it not go to the local market in the same way as the State electricity commissions, the water boards, the board of works and so on? I put to the Minister that this country is wealthy enough and that there is enough sympathetic support for the people of Papua New Guinea for finance to be arranged , in this way. 
Our responsibility is for Papua New Guinea, not for the State governments. The Treasurer does not do too well with  Sir Henry  Bolte and the rest of them. He would be the last one to get anything. But that, of course, is not the issue. The point is that the Australian community has a large amount of funds at its disposal for all sorts of other purposes. What was the loss incurred by Minsec? I think it was $26m or something like that. I believe that it is iniquitous to inflict upon the people of Papua New Guinea the usurious loan that we are proposing at present. It is quite wrong for us in small matters such as this to go to the international market in this way. I think my friend the Treasurer may be a director of the International Bank - he is either on the Board or he is involved in part of its functions. I am gratified to be in the presence of such a high dignitary of the international money lenders. The next time he attends a Board meeting I hope he will raise with the Bank the argument that if we are doing something for a developing country we should try to use low interest and not high interest policies. 
I should just like to make it clear that ample money is raised in Australia at a much lower interest rate than the rate for this loan. It should be on the record that the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  is inflicting on the people of Papua New Guinea the same kind of problems as have bedevilled the Australian railway systems and other public services over the last century. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a. third time. 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 
This Bill is associated with the salaries of academics in the Australian university system. There are  2  points of interest in it. The first is the actual level of the salaries themselves. The salaries for professors will be  $15,264;  associate professors  $12,593;  senior lecturers  $11,130;  and lecturers  $9,286  with a minimum of  $6,697.  In the present state of the university system in Australia it is important that university salaries be increased. While this is only a machinery Bill it does demonstrate a complete change in the way in which the Commonwealth has looked at the question of education over the  15  years in which I have been in this Parliament. Fifteen years ago, when any questions of education were raised in this Parliament it was pointed out to us absolutely from those on the opposite side that it had nothing to do with us, that it was totally a matter for the States; that education was the prerogative of the States and their constitutional right. 
In the  15  years since, partly as a result of the initiative of the former Prime Minister but mostly because the initiative had come from other sources, principally from this side of the House, the Commonwealth has been forced into assuming almost total responsibility in large areas of the Australian educational system, and of course one of the very large ones is the university system itself with more than  100,000  students in 15 universities and a very large number of highly qualified people. I think  800  people of professorial rank are in our universities. 
Here we are debating a Bill which not only authorises the general salary level or the payment of money for salaries for teaching staff te universities but actually sets out the payments. I believe that this is a desirable change in the Commonwealth's responsibilities but it is one which ought to be extended to larger areas in the Aus tralian educational system. For a long while it has been a puzzle to those of us who are concerned with education that only at the university level is the Commonwealth prepared to be totally associated with the development of the structure of our universities. The salaries structure inside Australian teaching services is, of course, one of the reasons why they are in constant ferment and why there is a constant shortage in teaching services in Australia. Therefore the Australian Labor Party supports this Bill. 
As has been pointed out this Bill is purely a machinery one but the constitutional issue of the Commonwealth's responsibility for education and for universities is the important issue. The fact that we accept this responsibility is equally important, but the next step is to extend that responsibility to the student body itself. In the last few days reports have been produced by the Australian Union of Students demonstrating the total inadequacy of the support for students. While it is a good thing that the Commonwealth supports adequately the teaching staff in universities it is even more important for it to take adequate steps to support the student body itself. Back in  1951  or  1952  when the Commonwealth university scheme got under-way about  50  per cent of the student body was supported out of Commonwealth funds. I recall in  1949  and  1950,  when I was a university student benefiting from the Commonwealth reconstruction training scheme, that there were almost more spaces than there were applicants. Now we have reached the stage where only  20  per cent to  25  per cent of the student body is being supported from Commonwealth funds for scholarships and this, of course, simply compounds the inequalities in Australian society itself. 
I believe that the time has come when we should give serious consideration to the total support of university students and other tertiary students. We should see that at some stage in a young person's life he ceases to be the total responsibility of his parents and is accepted as the responsibility of the community. When the student is at a level at which his competence will be of great support to the community in the future we must accept that it is a matter of being employed rather than being a student. We have to remove this from the area of charity, which is implied by the provisions of the means test. If their parents are rich the students have to depend on the charity of their parents. If their parents are poor the students have to depend on the charity of the Government or the State. There are large groups of students to whom such a question as the means test does not apply, of whom teacher students are one. Of course people in Service academies form another group. 
As to the general teaching services in Australian universities I think that numerically they are pretty close to adequate but I believe that the Commonwealth may have to take steps in accordance with the recommendations we have heard from time to time to do something about the adequacy of teaching or the quality of teaching inside our universities. My own belief is that while many of the people involved in teaching at universities are of the very highest intellectual and academic calibre, 'their teaching capacity is not of a great order. There is a tendency inside universities to regard research as being more important than teaching. I do not share that view. I believe that the passing on of knowledge and inspiration that can flow from it is more important than most of the research presently being conducted. 
Steps should be taken to ensure that value is received for the salaries paid to university staff. But the answer is difficult to find. Universities have a treasured and long held independent status. It is difficult to step inside a university, and say: 'Do this or do that.' It is more than difficult; it is undesirable. But such is the general power of the purse and the Commonwealth's initiative in large areas that this could be an essential factor. I presume that the teaching staff salaries authorised by this measure are adequate as many of them are higher than the salary paid to a member of the Federal Parliament. Insofar as the Commonwealth acknowledges its responsibility in this area the Bill is to be commended, but I hope that the day is not far distant when the Commonwealth will accept a greater responsibility for pre-school, primary and secondary education. Until that aim is achieved the revolution In education will proceed very slowly. 
The schedule to the States Grants (Universities) Bill includes the sum of $3,860 as the Commonwealth's share of the cost of establishing external studies at the University of Tasmania for 1971 and 1972. Of course this is a minute sum. It hardly represents a weekend's expenditure by the Commonwealth Parliament on lots of other matters. But it introduces an important principle into Australian universities which I think is being shed rather than taken up as a major academic exercise. In the past one of the features of Australian universities has been the ability to give correspondence courses for external students as they are known in this case. Before World War II Melbourne University accepted many external students. A large number of students, particularly in the teaching service, did their university courses, perhaps except for the last two or three years, through external studies. 
I believe the external studies system is an important contribution to education and it should not be neglected. As I recall, when the Martin report came down one of its recommendations was that external studies in universities should be gradually phased out. It is not often that one agreed with the right honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies but to his credit he rejected that recommendation. He was very good at rejecting recommendations in reports, particularly if they were useful and progressive. But on this occasion I believe he rejected a regressive recommendation. I appeal to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  to examine the question of external studies. I believe that this is a question to which the Commonwealth ought to turn its attention. My friend, the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  - as honourable members know I am a broad minded Socialist and I even regard Liberals as friends although I wish there were not so many of them in this Parliament - raised the general problems of staffing and other matters. These problems are admitted. I believe that in a modern society the university is much more than simply an institution of buildings, books, staff and students. It is also true that universities supply much more than the opportunity to go to class. In fact, the actual mingling of people at universities is part of the contribution to the development of a person's personality and education. 
Throughout the world there has been great expansion in this area. There is the open university system. I think the latest venture in this field is happening in Great Britain with the use of radio, television and correspondence courses. Obviously this can give many people the advantage of university courses which would be otherwise denied to them. As I understand it at the moment in Australia - I am subject to correction - only the University of New England at Armidale and the University of Queensland are conducting external courses. I think that in both those cases courses are restricted to people who live within the State, unless they happen to be servicemen. Countless people are disadvantaged because of the failure to extend the external studies system. The honourable member for Denison mentioned that he thought that scholarships would overcome this situation. I do not think that is adequate enough. For instance, scholarships will not do anything for the teacher who is teaching 200 or 300 miles from the university. The teacher may well have acquired a couple of subjects while at the university in the city but he is then transferred to the the bush. Countless people have done all or most of their university courses through external studies which has been the traditional avenue for teachers. My first step in my not very distinguished academic career was achieved as a result of the benefits of army education while I was still soldiering on, defending Australia against the surging hordes from the north. My feelings are that I received an advantage and I would like to see this advantage available to others. The academics and the bureaucracy of universities are inclined to deny this. They say that external studies are not part of a university's business. I believe that this is part of the proprietorship with which people in these positions endow themselves. Universities belong to the community. The university system as a whole has a great deal to contribute apart from preparing people for the function they might fulfil in society. Therefore, we ought to expand the external studies system. 
I believe that an area in which the system could be useful is in the studying of foreign languages. The Australian Broadcasting Commission currently has been quite adventurous in teaching people Indonesian and teaching people overseas English. This is done in a very ad hoc way. I believe that with the use of radio and television ample resources are available to use to overcome some of the disabilities. My colleague and friend from Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  mentioned the overcrowding at the university in Brisbane. Again, this is a feature of most Australian universities and senior educational institutions. There might be a lot of advantages in having people do more work at home. I hope the Minister will take up this question of external studies and, once again, make it a feature of Australian university work. In this instance I make an appeal on behalf of the Parliament. In another place numerous select committees and standing committees are operating. I believe that the opportunity for universities to expand external studies might well be a subject which a select committee of this Parliament could examine. As the Minister is no doubt aware a large number of people in this House have been intimately involved with education over many years. This is probably a bipartisan subject and the resources of this Parliament might well be gainfully employed in examining the scope of external studies in the Australian university system. I give a guarantee from this side of the House that we will be happy to participate in any exercise of this nature. 
 I draw to the attention of the Committee clause 3 which increases the number of Ministers but before I discuss this clause I should like to comment on the way in which the  Deputy  Whip of the Government Parties is handling affairs. Yesterday the Government faced extreme difficulty in trying to keep the Parliament working and in adjusting schedules so that Government business could be handled expeditiously. I agreed to speak at such time and at such length as fitted in with the arrangements that were made. This afternoon when I rose to speak on this Bill-- 
In the long history of the Parliament - - 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 

(9.11)-  Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent debate on the limitation of the debate under standing order 92 (a). 
I am reading the Standing Orders with increasing interest. I note that there is no opportunity for the Parliament to discuss this important matter that concerns the Parliament if we allow standing order 92(a) to stand unaltered. I suggest that honourable members should get out their copies of the Standing Orders and consider what I am putting to them. Two distinct issues are being placed before us at this moment. The first one is the limitation of debate and the second one relates to the number of Bills we are to consider as urgent and the times to be allocated to debate them. T believe that at this moment it is important that we discuss the principle of the limitation of debate in this House. Therefore I have moved that standing order 92 (a) be suspended. This is the issue as I see it: This Parliament is the inheritor of a system of debate that has evolved over 600 or 700 years. This Parliament is the forum of the nation: yet this evening the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  is able to move a motion which, unless we move for the suspension of Standing Orders, is able to change the whole system on which the parliamentary debating organisation is based. Therefore I have moved this motion. 
in replyThe point before the House, and one which I hope the Standing Orders Committee will consider rather deeply as soon as it can get round to it, is this question of what is urgent in this sense. We use the word urgency' in reference to certain debates in this place, although that is not the term used in the Standing Orders. This evening we are being asked to consider 17 Bills before the House as being urgent. In doing that we are asked to suspend the procedures, practices, traditions and protections that have evolved over 600 or 700 years. It has not been by chance that we have evolved the system of the first reading, whereby traditionally a Bill is circulated so people can discuss it and consider it; the second reading, on which there is a total debate; the Committee stage, in which the Bill is taken apart piece by piece, comma by comma, and the schedules are considered; then the report of the Committee and the third reading of the Bill. 
These practices have not been developed by some chance or at the whim or fancy of somebody who wants to get more pay by drawing the procedure out. They have been part of the traditional development of the Parliament to protect the rights of discussion and to protect people against hasty legislation. The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  is saying that he has 17 Bills which are so urgent that all those principles, traditions and practices that we have developed over the centuries, which we have adopted from the British House of Commons and which have become a part of parliamentary tradition throughout the world, no longer apply. There are matters that are urgent. At various times, sometimes on small matters and sometimes on matters of crisis, the Government has said emphatically to the Parliament of the nation: 'This is urgent. We had better do something about it tonight.' Is someone to tell me that the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill has suddently become so urgent in the sense that the word urgent' is being used? Of course it is not urgent. It is urgent and important that something be done about it. but who can say it is so urgent that tonight wc have to prevent discussion on it so that it can be put through? 
All the stages we have developed so painfully and evolved so carefully over the years are to be discharged. The United States Naval Communications Station (Civilian Employees) Bill has suddenly become urgent, and so has the AngloAustralian Telescope Agreement Bill. Some of these Bills have been on the notice paper for months. They have suddenly become urgent. If it had been a question of procedure and if it had been said that in the forthcoming weeks there were so many other things that we ought to do - I believe there are - that it would be worthwhile getting these things out of the road, this side of the House, as invariably happens, would have co-operated. But when we are asked to surrender all of our traditional rights, then our rights come before any motion before the House. 1 believe that every member of this Parliament has as much right to speak and as much a duty to put his point of view as has the Leader of the House or the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I surrender nothing of equality in this instance. If the 125 members in the House want to speak on something we are obliged to listen. If they have something to say they are duty bound to say it. It is not a question of some forum in which there is a procedure of 1, 2, 3, 4 out, where we get legislation through like shelling peas. It is a question of the right of the people's voice to be heard. I represent 120,000 people and most of my colleagues represent between 80,000 and 120,000 people. We are their voice here. They have no other way of speaking in this Parliament. There is no other way in which their voice can be heard. The trade union movement has no other access to the forum of the nation or to the legislators than through members of this Parliament. The constituents of honourable members opposite who hold seats in wheat growing areas have no other voice but that of their member. None of us should surrender this vital and fundamental right. The Leader of the House this evening made great play of the fact that we are doing what we have always done. They used to burn witches once. That is a continuation of the argument that leads to gas ovens and concentration camps. 
It is 550 days or thereabouts since this Government was re-elected in 1969 and we have met for 101 or 102 days. It is said that Standing Orders are being used as an instrument of executive government. I do not believe that it is an instrument of executive government. Let us consider the schedule. Obviously someone has sat down and said: "What will we give them for this? Here are 17 Bills'. A process of arithmetic has been used to determine that there should be 5 hours 30 minutes on this Bill, 2 hours 25 minutes on that Bill and so on through the drill without the slightest consideration of whether the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill was urgent or whether the Income Tax Assessment Bill would be properly discussed. 
Yes, 4 hours on a Country Party Bill. This is what I am challenging tonight. When will we use the English language both correctly and precisely? When will we use the Standing Orders for what they are, the machinery by which Parliament decides the affairs of this nation? As the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and honourable members on this side of the House have said so adequately, eloquently and continuously today, we are departing so serously from the traditions of general parliamentary government and democratic rights that, we are putting the Parliament itself in a hopeless position. 
When I pause on occasions such as this and consider the operations of the majority of honourable members opposite and the thoughtless and discourteous way in which they proceed with their functions, I see how hopeless is the position of those people who do not live in democratic communities such as ours where there are some traditions. No wonder the people of Germany were helpless in the 1930s. No wonder the people in South and North Vietnam and over most of the world are helpless when authority is exercised in this way. Where is the Prime Minister tonight? I believe one of our problems is that the Prime Minister, under whose authority, I suppose, these Bills have been declared urgent, is not really a member of this House. He entered Parliament in 1949 and became a Minister in 1951. He has never been a real member of Parliament; he has always been an executive instrument of some kind.  His  predecessor was much the same. They were not parliament men. For heavens sake, what is wrong with honourable members opposite? There are 65 or 66 members in the 2 Government parties. Are there not more than 2 who will abstain from voting? Some of them say privately: 'We wish we could discuss this better'; 'We wish we did not sit at midnight'; 'We wish to meet next week and discuss this'; 'Why can we not do so and so about something?' How is it that every one of them has surrendered his initiative? They are all private revolutionaries and public doormats. 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  is barking over there. When did he ever say anything sensible? The right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  a member of the Privy Council and one of the country's most distinguished citizens, mark you, has sat here and let the Leader of the House, a member of another Party, use him as his rubber stamp. 
That is right. The Privy Council has been demeaned and degraded when the honourable member allows himself to be used in this way. We are being asked to consider each one of these Bills separately whether they are urgent or not in the sense that 'urgent' has been used tonight. I say they are not urgent. As my colleagues on this side of the House have said so consistently today, while this practice continues the House of Representatives will not be the forum of the nation but just a piece of machinery for executive government. The Senate, if it wishes, will meet perhaps for weeks. The Senate has become the real Parliament of this country. The Executive decides its authority without let or hindrance from the freedom fighters opposite, so the House of Representatives has become what we might call the banana republic of the parliamentary system. Matters are decided at the whim and fancy of the Senate, on the one hand, and by the executive government on the other. I hope that honourable members will vote for the suspension of Standing Orders so that we can consider each one of these Bills, whether they are urgent or not, in order to get down to the urgent business of determining for how long and by what process the debate will ensue. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Bryant's)  be agreed to. 
As I listened to the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  I could not quite understand how he just dutifully rolls up and stands in whatever direction he is pointed when the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  calls the tune. He is a part of the Liberal Party's apron strings ideology. He believes that the people of Papua New Guinea are not quite ready yet for self government. I can remember when that distinguished leader of the Liberal Party, the Right Honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, thought that the people of India were not quite ready foi self government. Of course, from the way in which this country is being run at the moment and from the way in which this Parliament has been operating tonight, it is quite apparent that honourable members opposite do not think that we are ready for self government either. I think that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  did this in his 2 visits to the Territory- 
When I say *I think*, the honourable member can be sure that it is surety in its own right. The Leader of the Opposition took hold of the tree of complacency in both Papua New Guinea and Australia and shook it so that all those who were roosting in the boughs had to start to think for a change. I believe that he contributed a great deal to awakening a new spirit in Papua New Guinea. I agree with my friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  that this was a very important contribution. It is nonsense for the honourable members opposite to say that the Leader of the Opposition created derision, division and so on in the community of Papua New Guinea. The community was complacently organised, complacent in itself. The Leader of the Opposition and the Australian Labor Party for years have been advocating that the evolution of political institutions demanded greater pressure being placed upon people to make the political decisions themselves. That is what we have been advocating. It seems that the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  has at last - dilatorily - come to the same conclusion. 
I think that we do not want to underrate our achievements in Papua New Guinea. We have established law and order - terms which are not very popular as they are a part of the repressive institutions, one might say, of this country. But a system of law and order operates over the whole of the Territory. This is a remarkable achievement. Social services of various kinds and health and education programmes also are operating over the whole of the Territory. Communications have been developed in the Territory. There are the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the internal broadcasting system. The airlines also operate in the Territory. Unfortunately, there is a very meagre road system in the Territory. There is a national political system in the Territory. I believe nobody can deny these achievements. 
However, I believe that they are skeletal. They provide a framework. I suppose that not many of the developing countries of Africa and elsewhere have had conferred upon them such an effective framework. But I want to make it quite clear that I believe it is only a framework and that in recent years it has been bedevilled by the undue conservatism of honourable members opposite. We have not taken enough steps in the field of the Public Service in Papua New Guinea. Only a handful of people have achieved the capacity to reach the top of the Public Service. These, of course, are some problems which the people in Papua and New Guinea will have to face, but I have no doubt that given proper arrangements with this country and a proper association with us so that they can always call upon expert advice, they will be able to overcome those problems. The Australian comumnity itself faced similar problems in the last century. 
We have bedevilled Papua New Guinea with a double standard economy. On the one hand, there is the attitude that wages must be kept at the lowest possible level so that in the future the economy is able to stand them and, on the other hand, there has been established a system of costs which is closely related to the Australian system of adding a little bit extra to prices in order to make additional profits, dividends and so on. 1 think that we have been unduly cautious on the political side in Papua New Guinea. We should have insisted on the ministerial system long ago. I am not too sure about the future role of the Army in Papua New Guinea. This is no reflection upon the present members of the Pacific Islands Regiment who are rising in the ranks. But anybody with any eye to history or with any sense of what is going on in the world should be at least thoughtful or perhaps concerned about what the Army can do in a situation such as that in Papua New Guinea. 
My friend the honourable member for Fremantle has pointed out the difficulties of land ownership in Papua New Guinea which we have not resolved. I went to Rorovana 18 months ago and sat on the beach with the people there. They told me of their problems, their concerns, their worries and their anxieties. I am still puzzled as to how people with any sensitivity at all can proceed with that project about which the people were so deeply concerned, even although I have no doubt that in the long run it will produce advantages to the community. 
Sitting suspended from 11.29 p.m. to 12 midnight 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting, I mentioned that one of the problems which the Territory faces is the question of handling the Army. As I said, I do not want to cast any aspersions upon current members who are rising in the ranks of the Army, but history shows and current political facts around the world show that armies can be dangerous to growing democracies. One of the problems probably is that the Army is much more richly endowed in so many ways, being directly a part of the Australian defence system, than other forces in Papua New Guinea such as the police, which are supplied from the Administration funds. 
The big question that the Territory will face is that of separatism. It is hard to say whether regional assemblies should be established and whether Bougainville should have an assembly of its own. It may well be that that would compound some of the difficulties and divisive factors. In some parts of the world and at some stages of history, it has been a fruitful way of moulding communities together and in other parts it has been divisive. But the real issue that we are discussing tonight is what kind of parliament we expect the people of Papua New Guinea to have. I think that countries are tending towards representative institutions as their legislative bodies. Even those countries which are not notable for their devotion to democratic practices call their systems parliamentary. At an Interparliamentary Union gathering one will find representatives of a large number of countries which could not be described as democracies by any manner of means but which have their parliamentary systems. 
I believe that we made an error long ago when we kept the numbers of the House of Assembly small. The House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea faces tremendous problem of distance and of communication between the people. Because much of the communication has to be by word of mouth the member is in an impossible position. I recall that when the Assembly was first established and we debated it in this House, the Opposition wanted the salary to be higher than it is, the facilities and resources that were placed at the disposal of members to be better than they are still, and the actual number of members to be about 100 which, I suggest, is about the present total. The parliamentary problem will be solved only when there is a large number of members, all with the interests of the community in their hearts and in their minds, voicing those interests in Port Moresby or wherever the capital is. 
I believe that, at this stage, we should take some steps to see that members have adequate resources at their disposal. We should not leave to the House of Assembly the difficult decision as to the resources that its members shall have. This is hard enough in a mature, hard-bitten community such as ours, where we have to face up to a lot of criticism on questions of salaries and conditions and so on, but members of the House of Assembly will not be able politically to allocate themselves the necessary resources. I believe that this is an important question. Another question facing us is whether it is necessary for there to be an established party system in Papua New Guinea. An established party, operating over the whole Territory, could be a uniting device. If the people of Bougainville and the people of the Highlands have some kind of political ideology to vote for then that is a unitary factor, but this is unlikely to happen in a large measure at the present time. We should not be too dedicated to the idea that there must be a government and an opposition - that there must be some who govern and some who give advice, whether or not it is taken. There is no inevitability about there being a 2-party division. 
My colleague from Fremantle pointed out that there was something to be said for the Swiss system. We have raised this before. I think the Minister has described it as having some viability. He has said that a political group can show it has the numbers to govern. It is not so much that it has the numbers to govern but that a dozen or so members of the House should have the confidence of the House in themselves. I believe that the Westminster system, in as much as it involves members of the Ministry being members of the parliament, is the appropriate system. It is true, as my friend from Fremantle pointed out, that the Presidential system has been the one that looked most like the operations in Papua New Guinea over the last 25 years or so. But it is one of the sad facts of recent political history that none of the systems works. They will work only when the people in the systems have the capacity, the background and the national unity to make them work. It is difficult to find in South America or Africa any example of a Presidential system that I would take for a guide. 
I believe that as soon as possible we should give members ministerial authority. My observation is that in recent months, since the establishment of the ministerial membership system - I still do not know why they are not called Ministers - several have become Ministers in the true sense. In my field of professional interest - education - 1 think it is fairly obvious that  Mr To  Liman has become a Minister in the sense in which we use the term. I think we have to pay some credit to the director of the education system in as much as it is obvious that that is the way he thinks it should be. I think there are one or two other areas in which the Ministers have actually become Ministers in the way in which we think of the term. In a parliamentary system we impose a tremendous burden upon a man who becomes a Minister. He is the chief executive of a department. He is supposed to take the initiative along certain lines of policy. He has to approve things that the department does. He has to keep a close scrutiny and a close watch upon the things that the department does and upon those things that the community needs. He has to liaise with other Ministers. He has to respond to public needs. Apart from that, he has to be a local member. I think that one of the unfortunate things that may occur at the next elections is that those members who are Ministers in Papua New Guinea are the ones who are likely to become electoral casualties. I think that if there is anything that we can do, irrespective of their politics, to ensure that there is a better line of communication between the members of that Parliament and their community, we should do it. 
The other issue that I think is terribly important to us concerns future arrangements with Australia. That country will be important, not so far as defence is concerned but in as much as it has  2i  million to 3 million people. It is about the size of 
New Zealand and has about the same population. The people whom I have come to know fairly well resent very much the restrictions imposed upon their travelling to and from Australia. On the Saturday that we arrived back at the airport in Brisbane, returning from the Anzac Day services the previous week, about 100 people came out of the aircraft and lined up for customs clearance. There were 20 or 30 people in each queue. In one queue there was a girl who, I would assume, came from Papua New Guinea. She bad darker skin than anyone else. I said to my colleague, the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds):  'I will bet that when that girl gets to the counter she is taken away and grilled' or whatever the appropriate term is these days for interrogation. It was true. When she reached the counter she was investigated very thoroughly. I do not know whether the girl was permitted to enter Australia. That is not good enough. Somehow we, as a community here, have to come to a better arrangement with Papua New Guinea. My view is that perhaps we should have some consultations, with members of the Territory House. We might establish a joint committee of this Parliament and that Parliament. 
There are a number of things that we should do for Papua New Guinea before it becomes fully independent. I do not believe that independence is any more than an evolution of the parliamentary system. Perhaps we should do something about a parliament house. My suggestion is that a building be erected at the university, to be used as a university after 10, IS or 20 years - or whenever it is - when the Parliament moves to a new site, which is projected. That would be something. I think that would be an important development for the university. We should offer some specialised assistance in roads and communications. We should do something about the economy. We should guarantee the future of the education system. Papua New Guinea is our most important trusteeship. There are those areas in which I think we have done quite well, but on the whole I believe that our good work has been bedevilled by an undue caution, by a failure to trust the people of Papua New Guinea adequately and by a failure to develop an effective Public Service. I appeal to the House and to the nation generally to give much more thought to the future arrangements that we will have between the people of the Territory as people and the people of Australia. 
Yes, you may, because 1 regard you as a subsidiary or a rubber stamp of some institution outside this place which is using you as a- 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I rise to a point of order. Do you not think it is an intolerable situation and an astonishing thing that 60 men such as those opposite should stay here and behave like this while the tinpot tyrant has gone home to bed? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)- 

Order! That is not a point pf order. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
I . second the motion. He has not said anything in 20-odd years. It is not worth the trouble listening to him. 
Question put: 
That the Leader of the House he not further heard. 

 - Mr Speaker, the point at issue is not so much the $4m or the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd but the way in which this Parliament is to consider legislation. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  seems to regard the whole system as part of his own proprietary interests. None of us should tolerate this. This is the point my friend the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  made: Where were all those people on the Government side of the chamber who ought to be as deeply concerned with the Parliament as an institution and with our right to consider all this legislation as is anybody else? I cannot understand how the Minister, arriving in this Parliament  a  few years ago hot from some business enterprises of his own- 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State eduction services has established serious deficiencies in eduction. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I second the amendment. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has pointed out with great clarity just where this piece of legislation leads. It favours the affluent and ignores the State schools system in large measure on' the basis of equality of public expenditure on the people of Australia. It is a. product of following the slippery path of electoral opportunism which brought the Commonwealth into this field 7 or 8 years ago. It might be instructive for honourable members to be reminded of what the Liberal Party and the Government used, to say on this question of education. In 1958 a fairly new member of this Parliament, . who is still here, raised the following . matter of public importance: 
The urgent need for the Commonwealth to take action to ensure that sufficient funds are available to each State of the Commonwealth to provide adequate public education facilities for its people. 
In reply to that, the Prime Minister of the time,  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, had this to say: 
But 1 should like to say to the honourable member that I rather envy the easy way in which he sets the Constitution on one side on the ground that it is out of date. The fact is that it still exists. The fact is that education, except in Commonwealth Territories, remains a function of the States. 
He and his Party held very solidly to that point of view for 5 or 6 years but in about 1963, they discovered that there was some, perhaps, magic formula very closely associated with the ballot box more than with the schoolroom. So they decided that the Commonwealth would enter into this field of supporting science laboratories in the non-public, private or non-government schools of Australia. We believe - I think this has been demonstrated over the years - that this has no satisfactory relation to the needs of Australian education. It is instructive on occasions such as this - I do not intend to speak for the full length of time available to me - to consider where the needs in Australian education are, in what way this Government is approaching them and in what way this legislation assists in meeting them. 
First of all, it is obvious that Australia needs, for the senior areas of secondary education, some student support system. We have a student support system of sorts in the Commonwealth scholarships scheme. But does it give support to the students who need it most? If course it does not. All the evidence is that the scholarships go more to the people in the affluent schools than to those in the schools in the country, the state schools and, in some measure, the Catholic schools. The evidence laid before the House in answer to a question asked by my colleague from Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  shows the disastrous fallout, particularly from the state schools of Australia, which the major proportion of the children of Australian attend. Neither this legislation nor any other legislation produced by this Government attacks that problem at all. 
Then there is the problem of buildings. This ought to be apparent to anyone. One does not need to be very bright to drive around the country and see there the deficiencies in the school buildings in which the young people of Australia are educated. 
It is true that in Canberra the buildings, on the whole are first class. There may be errors in design and there may be changes that are merely approached from time to time, but only in Canberra is there an almost universally high standard of buildings. In the rest of Australia, and particularly in Victoria, as my friend from Fremantle pointed out, there is a serious deficiency in the building schemes. Many of the schools that have been built over the last few years are totally inadequate. Many of the buildings that are still occupied were built 70 or 80 years ago and are fit only for the bulldozer. What the Government ought to be doing, rather than adopting this carte blanche approach to such things as science laboratories, is taking a look at the obselete and obselescent school buildings of Australia and establishing some funding scheme by which the State governments could replace them. It does not do that. 
Then there is the question of teachers. Nobody can deny that the teaching service of Australia needs some kind of new look. Different questions are involved from State to State. In Victoria there are serious deficiencies in the secondary school system. Throughout Australia there are serious deficiencies at the pre-school level, in certain areas at both the secondary level and the primary school level and in the field of specialist teachers. The Commonwealth Government has done nothing about that. I represent an electorate which has one of the highest concentrations of migrants in Australia. I was interested, in glancing back at my speech on the matter of public importance that I raised in the House in May 1958, to note that on that occasion I referred to the failure of the Commonwealth to assist in migrant education. Now, after 12 or 13 years, very little indeed has been done in tackling the question of migrant education. The great flood of migrants into many parts of the industrial areas of Australia, and in particular into electorates such as mine, has almost destroyed the local education system. The Commonwealth has done next to nothing about that. 
Then there are the facilities in schools. The Government has approached the question of libraries, again in the same haphazard fashion in which this legislation endows the education system of Australia. Then there are the science laboratories and other teaching facilities. The Australian education services need all sorts of extra teaching facilities. In many areas they need language laboratories. In all areas we probably should do a great deal of educational television. We should do a great deal of educational research. The Commonwealth has done very little about that. So, this system again is endowing the rich and neglecting the great areas of need in Australian education. I believe that it is time the citizens of Australia realised what the neglect of the State school systems of Australia is leading to. Three-quarters of the children of Australia - offhand, I think the figure is something like 2 million - are in the State school systems of Australia. Something like 8,000 schools, 70,000 or 80,000 teachers and from 8 million to 9 million Australians are involved. In fact, they are being slowly written off by this Government. It is an astonishing exercise in public expenditure that at this stage the Government is able to find $17m for the nonstate schools and $26m for the State schools, although the ratio in the school population is 3 to 1 and the ratio in needs in some areas must be 10 to 1 or 12 to 1. 1 represent an industrial area of Australia. There are 7 secondary schools in the area, and one just over the road. One of those 8 schools has a new building. It has inadequate ground space, of course, and is inadequate in some other areas. But every other one of those schools is almost totally inadequate in its buildings. Some of them have been built in recent years of the light construction that is available at the present time, but the facilities inside them are inadequate judged by modern standards. It would be educational for certain honourable members opposite to take a drive through some of the suburban areas of Australia, particularly industrial areas. Let them take a look some time at the Brunswick Technical College or the Brunswick Girls School. Let them see how the people of Moreland High School have to battle along. 
I think it is a tribute to the Australian teaching service that so much good flows out of it in so many areas. The Moreland High School has been rather adventurous in some of its teaching methods. Some of the new principles developed there have flowed throughout the whole school system in Victoria. But that does not allow us to escape the fact that the students there are being educated in conditions which we ought not to tolerate. The buildings are totally inadequate. The space available is miserable and meagre iri the extreme and the yard space is almost non-existent. One could make an appeal, surely to the ordinary common sense of the community and say: 'These are the people in the greatest need. These are the areas where we need to improve the environment. At least let us do it in the schools'. 
Instead, we are here again this evening discussing policies which have been plucked out of the air and which have very little relation to the needs of the Australian education system. I just want to place on record not exactly my despair at this - because I have no doubt that in the political future of Australia there will be the opportunity for us to do something about these matters - but my disappointment. For heaven's sake, if we are to spend millions on such exercises, let us apply some kind of system of equality of expenditure and effort and some kind of justice to the operation. As we have pointed out from this side of the House on numerous occasions, the adventure into non-state education and its support have been undertaken on a totally haphazard system based upon political and electoral expediency that has no relation to the needs pf the community. As I see it, the Government intends to continue pouring millions of dollars into the area without any system behind it and without any scientific examination of where it is going or where we are going. I can see the competition growing from time to time, so that eventually in election campaigns we will be trying to outbid one another by trying to produce within the non-state systems the same relative expenditure as goes from State funds into State schools. I believe that this could be disastrous to the State education systems and, on the whole, bad for all the others. Therefore, I hope that while this lengthy recess is on honourable members opposite will take the opportunity to have a close look at many of the dilapidated and unworthy State schools of Australia which are continuously neglected and which need the millions that the honourable member for Fremantle has indicated in the amendment he has moved here this evening. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
What statutory authorities other than those listed inanswer to question No. S39 (Hansard, 10th March 1971, pages 762-810) have been established by the Commonwealth. 
What are the (a) names, (b) salaries, (c) fees and (d) terms of office of the governing bodies of each Authority. 
What is the legislative authority for each body andwho is the responsible Minister in each case. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has completely exposed the utter hypocrisy of the Liberal Party's policy over the last 6 or 7 years. He cares only if America cares. It is international puppetry carried to the last extreme. One of the cliches which the honourable member used was: 'We answered the call'. Who answered the call? Did the young Liberals answer the call? Did the young Ministers of 26, 32 and 33 years of age, who were of the military age group when this war was declared, answer the call? In the days when Australia was really threatened people who believed in wars went to the wars themselves. Who answered the call? There has been nothing more devastating in Australian history than the political immorality of honourable members opposite, over the last 6 or 7 years in particular. 
The honourable member for La Trobe claimed that the policy concerning our commitment in Vietnam and national service has been endorsed by the people. It was not endorsed in 59 of the electorates at the last Federal elections. It was not endorsed at all by the majority vote in a couple of States. It has never been endorsed in my electorate. It has never been endorsed by the actions of honourable members opposite who are of military age. So my view of it is that the honourable member for Latrobe can speak with no conscience at all on either of these issues. 
There are 2 issues before the House tonight. First, there is the Vietnam commitment and, secondly, there is the general question of national service. I would just say about national service that I have arrived at the conclusion at this stage in my life, when I am safely beyond military age, that in the first instance no-one has the right to dispose of another's life or freedom, that national service is the ultimate act of violence by the community against a minority of its own members and that that cannot be tolerated in a modern democratic society. I listened to our colleague the Minister for Education and Science and Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  our multi-hatted Minister, spending his time by consoling himself with a reiteration of the cynical mythology of the Liberal Party over the last 6 or 7 years - a litany to the God of War - as to exactly how one solves the problems of South East Asia by military action.  His  was a total insensitive speech, if I may say so. It was a cliche-strewn apologia for the last 6 or 7 years. 
Today is a sad day of triumph for the Australian Labor Party, in particular for my colleague the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  because those things which we have been saying for 6 or 7 years have now been accepted by honourable members opposite, but they have not the grace to say they were wrong. This is a piece of continuous mythology because, in the first instance, it was said that there was a necessity in South Vietnam which warranted our involvement there. 1 think that the words of the Prime Minister of the time, who is now safely beyond our reach, were that there could be no doubt of the gravity of the situation in South Vietnam. So honourable members opposite built up the whole mystery of it all - the necessity to go to South Vietnam to save us from being overwhelmed tomorrow night or tomorrow week by the hordes of Asia. Now, apparently in 1971 the situation has so changed that it is safe to withdraw our troops, because the Prime Minister for the time being  (Mr McMahon)  has said: The important political stability in South East Asia has made it possible'. But what did the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  have to say only this afternoon? He said: 
But the conflict is still unresolved and North Vietnam has its troops -not only in South Vietnam but also in Cambodia and Laos. Malaysia and Thailand, Burma, and  Ceylon  have still to contend with insurgency and subversion. India still faces the crippling burden of coping with some 7 million refugees from East Pakistan. Pakistan itself is torn by civil strife. 
Pakistan itself is torn by civil strife, yet it is now safe to withdraw from Vietnam. 
We on this side of the House have said that the Government should never have sent troops there, that there is no possible solution to the political problems of this part of the world through Australian military action, and that it would only be by diplomatic initiative that we would make any sensible contribution. I have said in this House often, and I say again, that in this kind of conflict Australia's only possible military contribution has been the sacrifice of helpless young men who have been grabbed up and carted off and dealt with as if they were so many cattle or shuffled like so many cards by the people opposite who are completely insensitive to every human feeling. The utter hypocrisy of it all! The utter silence of my friend from La Trobe on the position of the people of Cambodia, or the people of Pakistan, or of Bangla Desh if you like! Are these the people who, if it is necessary, will go forth to South Africa and rescue the black millions from the oppression of the white minority? Of course they are not. 
As I said earlier, and as has been demonstrated often in the past, the Government acts only if America acts and if America is going home Australia is prepared to go home. So it is an act of complete national immorality to retain the young men in Vietnam. For every hour they are there, those 5,000, 6,000 or 7,000 men are in mortal peril. One will lose his life today, perhaps one in a fortnight's time, and perhaps three at some other time. Together with my colleague, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, I say that if the Government is going to bring them home the only moral action is to bring them home now. If there is no possible use or need for them there in January there is no possible use or need for them there in 2 or 3 weeks time. 
For some reason or other my colleagues opposite seem to be completely insensitive to the perils of war - not only to all the threats of it, the immorality of it and the folly of it but also to the utter hopelessness, the degradation and the destruction of life and limb. These seem to have escaped them all. They are able to talk about human beings, human lives, human hardship and human sacrifice in a totally abstract situation. It is the total heartlessness of it which I cannot understand. We have paid for our insurance with the United States, but it does not look as though we are ever going to collect the premium. What has it cost? Five hundred young men have been killed. Some 2,500 have been wounded; 325 of those are seriously incapacitated and, as I understand it, 25 of them are totally and permanently incapacitated. Those of them who were young national servicemen taken in at the age of 20 and who are totally incapacitated and are now living on repatriation benefits were conscripted into a lifetime of poverty. They can never enjoy any of the good things of the life they were supposed to be defending. 
Goodness knows what it has cost in terms of money. It is a total of perhaps $200m a year. If there were any way of calculating what it has cost the country it might be a total of between $600m and $ 1,000m. But more than that it has also cost us a serious division of the country. National symbols such as Anzac Day have been the subject of derision. Our own flag has become the banner of derision because of this, and if honourable members opposite do not understand that and do not realise it they are more completely insensitive to the tides of social feeling in this community than I think they are. 
There are some other matters that we ought to debate here tonight. It is unfortunate we cannot debate these things at such length as we ought. My colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who ought to be sitting in here, tonight is not doing so. My colleague the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  who ought to be here tonight, is not here either. Perhaps they are preparing to go to Vietnam, being of the right age group. But why are not our neighbours infected with the same neurosis that we have about all these things? Why is it that our neighbours do not feel that they are in mortal peril, that they do not rush off and institute national service immediately if the threats that the honourable member for La Trobe sees under the bed, in the clouds and up in the hills continuously were there? 
The Prime Minister said that he is going to reduce the full time strength of the Army by 4,000 men and that the period of national service will be reduced to 18 months. Let me place these points before honourable members: I have spoken on countless platforms throughout Australia. 1 have taken the opportunity on as many occasions as possible to ask my colleagues opposite to come on the platform with me and debate the question, not from the standpoint of morality if they do not see morality in public affairs but on the general system of national service. First of all, it is totally inequitable and unjust. We take one section of the community and we impose a burden upon them. I believe it is completely uneconomic and I am supported in that view by a recent publication of the 'Canberra Papers on Strategy and Defence'.I will not read it all as I have only a few moments left, but it is an article written by a  Mr McGurr.  It states: The Report of the Gates Commission points out that the budget cost of paying men in military employment is not necessarily the real cost to the nation. 
It goes on: 
The real cost or opportunity cost is the value of the nation's foregone production. 
Honourable members can read it all themselves but this is an important point to any Australian. It continues: 
If the conscript receives a wage whose value is less than his alternative civilian wage, which is a measure of the value of his foregone production, his loss of wages can be viewed as a special tax levied on him-- and so on. 
What right have we to do that to any particular group in the community? Perhaps my colleague who will follow me in this debate will be able to find an answer to that question. What right has he to sacrifice some young men for whatever his idea of security might be? This is a challenge we have never faced. We have taken it as read that we have a right to pick up one group in the community and say: 'Go there, do this, do that.' But we do it only for military service. If we are short of policemen we do not call people up to be policemen. If we are short of teachers we do not call people up and say: 'Go and be a teacher.' But we will do this when their lives can be forfeited. Let me ask honourable members a question. The honourable member for La Trobe and the Prime Minister have implied that it is necessary and essential that for its defence Australia should have 9 battalions of infantry. That is what national service is about, is it not - to maintain the strength of our 9 battalions of infantry? Why 9 battalions of infantry? Why not 19 or 90? What would 9 battalions do to hold back the surging hordes that are so terrifying to the honourable member for La Trobe that he has had to leave the House? 
Let us examine for one moment Australia's strategic situation. It is a country of 3 million square miles with 5 million or 6 million square miles of sea around it. Of what possible use are 9 battalions of infantry? I say that this is totally irrelevant militarily. I am not decrying the power of the Australian infantry battalions and I am not decrying the strength or the morale or anything else of the battalions in Vietnam, but in what possible way can they control the seas of Australia which are the only valid and relevant parts of Australia's defence? This I think is a question that all Australians must ask. They must ask themselves this because they are paying the bill. Really the people who are paying the bill are the young men who are called up. thousands of miles of sea round about us that we should keep under constant scrutiny and surveillance? Of course it is. But infantry. I say it is a piece of utter rot; it has no relevance whatsoever to Australian defence and nobody has yet explained to me how that could be so. Therefore I believe that on all these issues national service must be rejected. 
First of all it must be rejected because of the immorality of it, as I see it - this demand imposed upon a section of the community that it shall pay the sacrifice while others get on with business as usual. How can a community such as ours support that view? I do not know what is wrong with the parents of Australia that they have tolerated it for so long. I have gone to meetings of the Draft Resisters Union - good solid young men who are struggling with their consciences. They are as Australian as the Minister for Defence who now sits at the table. They are as Australian as any one of us. They will not go into the courts and plead conscientious objection. I say: 'Why do you not do this?' They say: 'Well, look, I would defend Australia if I thought the issue was valid but I will not fight in a war like this. I will not surrender my freedom to the Army either on this sort of issue. I will not support the foreign policies of this Government.' So they face whatever terrors and rigours they have to. I cannot understand how honourable members opposite tolerate the system. I see these young men at these meetings, always on their own. When I see 15 or 20 of them at a meeting I ask them can they get their parents to come along. Most of them have their parents on side but some of them have not. But there is the utter loneliness of the 20-year-old which is inflicted upon him by the community at large, by the Liberal Party voters in every electorate, by the Country Party voters in every electorate, by the Democratic Labor Party voters in every electorate and by honourable members opposite. Quite frankly I cannot understand it. I cannot tolerate the morality of it and as far as I am personally concerned, while I have no particular grudge against any honourable member in this House - as persons I rather like all of them - if there is anything in my political power that can be done to remove from this House every person who has voted for this immoral act over the last 6 or 7 years I will do it. 
 The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  spent 30 minutes demonstrating that he does not understand the current situation at all. He has given no consideration to the real defence of the nation and has made no attempt to understand the moral issues or the position in which the young men to whom he was referring find themselves. I instance the case of young Mullen. He is a bachelor of science. My colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  knows him well. Mullen has strong exception to service in Vietnam.  His  general position does not fit into the definitions of conscientious objection. One of the deep arguments that I have with my friends opposite is that they have not made any efforts to get hold of young men aged 20 and 21 and get into their minds to understand the moral and spiritual stand they are taking. This is the most unsettling thing that I have come across in my period in Australian politics. It seems that on this issue the Government and its members, through party discipline, have erected a barrier. One cannot get members opposite to consider the issue. I have no possible hope of persuading the Minister for Labour and National Service to come out into public in his own electorate or in mine to discuss national service. No member opposite will come out to discuss it. Members opposite escape the issue. 
The Opposition has presented the Bill because it is the best and most that it can do at this stage. We do not control the forms of the House. The Bill has been on the business sheet for 18 months. It will not come back again and we have to take whatever opportunity we can to explain it. So in the time I have left to me this morning I can speak only in a kind of parliamentary shorthand. First, I shall deal with a few points which the Minister raised. He referred to the attitude that we sought to express in the Bill. He said we were introducing caprice, inequity and selection into the scheme. The present scheme of national service as implemented is capricious in the extreme. It selects men by chance - by birth dates drawn by ballot. It is totally inequitable in placing upon one group in the community a sacrifice not demanded .of anybody else. It is selective in that some are chosen while others are allowed to stay at home. I listened for 30 minutes to the Minister subverting his great talents in justifying an act of national immorality. 
In trying to pander to sections of the community he used cliches and words like: honour their obligations to render service'. Honour! What honour is there in the national service system? Its very genesis was a political gimmick. Their obligations! Why is A obliged to serve while B stays home and plays football and C turns up in this Parliament when he is of military age? Honourable members opposite constantly refuse to face the moral and spiritual issues that we see in the present scheme. As for the Minister talking about attempting to gain political profit or credit from this Bill, no member of the Opposition from the inception of the scheme has avoided the issue whether it has meant political credit or political debit. I believe that members opposite have not examined the situation at all. 
I ask members opposite: What is your principle? What right has the Government to play God with some young men's lives and take away their freedom, whether it be by putting them in gaol or by putting them into the Army? Is not this what the Government is doing? Is not this what is being said when it allows 90 per cent of Australia's young men to remain at home and says to the other 10 per cent: 'You have no freedom. You have no life left'? This situation is no longer tolerable in an Aus* tralian democratic society. I served for many years in the Services. I could not be a conscientious objector. Possible, in certain circumstances, I could regard myself as a pacifist. I know that so many young Australian men take more or less the position that I do. When the chips are down, the defence of Australia is involved and we are under attack, they will be there. I know dozens of these young men. I have spoken to them. I have asked them: Why not apply for release from national service on the grounds of conscientious objection; it is better than going to gaol?' They say: 'We will not'. They will not sell their spirit or soul even to keep themselves out of gaol. This is something that honourable members opposite, including the honourable member who just laughed, cannot understand. Deep in the heart of these young men is the very spirit that this nation needs in its defence, and the present situation is most distressing. I say that the Government has no right to dispose of the lives or freedom of any individual or collection of individuals. How does the present national service scheme fit in with the rights of individuals in accordance with the Constitution? 
Members of the Government Parties take refuge in anachronisms and generalities. It had been my intention to deal more particularly with the Bill but my colleague, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard)  has done so. However, I would ask the Government: Why were 20-year olds chosen for national service? Was it because the Government regards a 20-year old as the most efficient soldier? I suggest that members opposite study the records relating to those people who won the Victoria Cross during the last war. Were they aged 20? The majority were in their late 20s and early 30s. There is no proof that if the most efficient army is wanted, 20-year olds should be recruited. I am not suggesting that these young men have not been turned into efficient soldiers, but it is well known that a person does not acquire in his late teens the spiritual, moral and physical strength needed of soldiers. If the Minister wanted the best 9 battalions he could get, would he choose his men as they are chosen for national service? Of course he would not. Would he pick the 20-year- olds? Of course he would not. The young man who last drew the marble out of the barrel in Melbourne was Ron Clarke who was breaking world records at 27 and 28 years of age. I cannot understand how he fell for the task. But these young men are picked because they are the cheapest. Generally speaking they have no wives; they have no families and they have no vote. They can be sacrificed at the least possible political and economic cost. 
The Minister says that he has consulted the Returned Services League and also his Department. I do not think he consults with his Department; he is probably its prisoner. He said, he also has consulted the Australian Council of Churches. But the last thing he will do is have an effective discussion with this Parliament and its members who represent the people directly, and I wish he would establish some machinery by which we could all take part. We have fallen for this defence by political gimmick. There is talk of the gallup poll. 1 am running short of time, but let me examine one or two of the propositions that the Minister has put to us. I see that I have only 5 minutes left. This is one of the penalties. Honourable members opposite talk about democracy and freedom, but those things do not apply even in this place. When will this issue be discussed again? 
It will be worth reading the Minister's speech. He used some beautiful cliches. He referred to the 'viable proposition in the light of existing circumstances'. What circumstances? He says that we have to have 9 infantry battalions. Good heavens why? As an old footslogger myself, I have great respect for the Australian Army, but if, when I address a gathering of people, I put a map on the wall, look at it and say: There it is. Where do the threats come from?; I can answer that they can come only from the sea or the air. How will the Government protect itself against this with 9 infantry battalions? Is the Minister, playing the part of God, going to teach the people to walk on water? That is the last thing he would do. Any conscientious consideration of the defence of Australia at the present moment, in the light of all the existing circumstances, would not include having 9 infantry battalions as the way to do it. 
I have no objection to the Government's having 9 infantry battalions. But the Gov ernment stands condemned if it has turned our society into the kind of one that cannot raise 9 infantry battalions by volunteer methods. I believe that an effective citizen force with adequate background training, and materia] support could produce the same effective military and defence result in the light of existing circumstances. But when I ask the community generally about national service, I get no answers. People say: 'Yes, we are in favour of national service'. When  I  ask people why they are in favour of national service they say: 'We have to defend the country'. When I ask: Against whom'? Nobody can ever tell me. 
I am not one of those who say that because one cannot name a specific enemy at this point of time one should disband the defence Services. But one has to take a totally different look at the picture, instead of building upon the anachronism of compulsory military service in infantry battalions. It is damn nonsense in anybody's language; it is an act of incredible folly: it is an act of great injustice to a team of young men. I for one believe deeply that the community has abdicated its responsibility to the young men of Australia. If the Government has the guts, the strength and the nerve and believed in its policy, it should perhaps call up 25-year-olds. They would have been able to vote for 4 years before they were called up, and they would have wives who could object. I would have some respect for Ron Clarke who drew the last marble out of the barrel if he had enlisted himself. He is one of the fastest runners in Australia - just the man you need on occasions. I have done a bit of running myself for the cause. 
These are the issues, as I see them. There are many more. This Bill before the House is an attempt to reform a totally unacceptable system. The best we can do is to attempt to mitigate the hardship of the young men of Australia. We want the conscientious objection provisions changed. I have been to the court on a number of occasions when these young men have been there. My friend the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  I understand, has a law degree and a law practice. It would do him good if he went into court to see what happens to the young men and whether the principles of law, as he understands them, are applied. These young men are absolutely, totally and completely helpless in the grip of the law. They stand there firm in their resolve and say: 'I won't be in it.' But instead of getting some kind of conscientious consideration of their position from honourable members opposite, they are sneered at and laughed at. The Minister says that these young men have not honoured their obligations. 
We want to repeal the whole Act, but we want this conscientious objection provision applied immediately. We want the cases of young men like Mullen and Martin reconsidered absolutely. I think it is a disgrace that these two men are in prison. The whole system has done all sorts of things to the Australian community. It has subverted our system of justice. The High Court of Australia has ruled that a case does not need to be on indictment. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
I hope that the people listening to the broadcast of these proceedings have registered their strong disgust at the contribution this afternoon by a man of great intellectual capacity. After all, he holds a doctorate from somewhere or other and he is a highly placed member of this Parliament, being a Minister. He is a man who in personal and private conversation I have found to have intellectual gifts beyond the average. To hear the kind of speech we have heard this afternoon is a disgrace to this Parliament and it has been matched only by the speech of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
Listening to his speech this afternoon, one could say that the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  is lying stem-on to the waves of history; he has no understanding of what is happening. 1 can see him on the goldfields over 100 years ago, in the 1850s, leading the anti-Chinese riots at Lambing Flat. That is where they are trying to bring us, those people who are standing against all the tides of history. The Minister for the Navy is not even consistent as a scholar in his approach to the study of  Chairman  Mao, because if he were he would recall that the same principles were espoused by his own former Leader, the right honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies. The Minister is getting congratulations now from the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who must be the greatest eccentric who has ever hit this place when it comes to parliamentary discussion. The Minister said that  Chairman  Mao, who is a dreadful fellow, said: 
War is the continuation of politics ... by other means. 
They are terrible thoughts, and I agree with the Minister that they are terrible thoughts. But I was in this House some 12 or 13 years ago when the knight of the Cinque Ports was reported as having said in London - he was not prepared to say it here - 'We must be robust, sensible, firm'. That meant that we had to drop bombs on the people of Cairo. The continuing theme of the Government's approach to foreign policy, to history and to everything else has been that if you cannot convince them, bomb them. 
This debate on foreign policy is not a debate about China alone, ft is true that the Chinese exercise at the present time has captured the imagination of people because of the initiative of the Australian Labor Party. Let me pay a compliment to the 2 wings involved. I compliment not only the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who led the delegation, and led it with great effect, one which made an impact upon the world stage, but also the Executive of the Labor Party which initiated the delegation. It came from the mainspring of the Australian Labor Party itself, lt was the embodiment of the ideas and ideals that somehow we hope to get across to the world, that the people of it belong to one world no matter what their politics. What the world of the 1970s will be like should be the subject of this debate. 
I think I should remind those people who are listening, who read Hansard and who consider these things that this afternoon we heard a dreadful speech from the honourable member for Wannon. He was back pedalling to get into the Ministry. I think it was the worst speech he has made since he came to this Parliament. He attacked the Leader of the Opposition not for his policies or activities; he attacked him in person, in every possible malicious way. Honourable members opposite are introducing McCarthy ism in preparation for the next election. It is going to be the China Premier election, or something of that sort. For heaven's sake, can we not grow out of that? Can we not for once face the issues confronting the world at large? Can we not forget all these mischievous and malicious things that have been used by honourable members opposite as a part of their history? 
The real point is that on the other side of the chamber there is a deep and lasting envy for the initiative which the Leader of the Opposition took in conjunction with the Labor Party - it is just plain straight envy. Those who cared to consider politics at that time only had to look first at the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country, the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  whingeing his way around Europe, trying to knock his way through the doors of the European Common Market and being rejected at every point, and then at the triumphant visit of the Leader of the Opposition to Asia, including not only China but Japan and other countries. He was stepping with the currents of history. The  Deputy  Prime Minister was of course going against the tide. But let us make it quite clear now that if the issue of the next election is the McCarthyism which we have heard here this afternoon we will take the Government on. We are warned now; let the people of Australia be warned. That is no way to conduct the affairs of this nation. One only has to look back to the black record of the 1950s in America to see how it blossomed and faded and was condemned, and that is what will happen to my colleagues opposite. 
We have taken the initiative in these matters and the honourable member for Wannon can do what he likes. Australia will never look at the China issue the same way again. No matter what is said the cynicism, the insincerity and the insensitivity of the last 10 or 15 years of foreign policy have been exposed for all time. For example, the Minister for the Navy talked about the inconsistencies or the illegalities, or whatever it was, of the position of China and Taiwan. He remarked about the acceptance by the Leader of the Opposition - not exactly the acceptance - but the acknowledgment of the position taken by China that Taiwan was a province of China. He denounces this. Chiang Kaishek for years has said, and this Government has accepted it, that China apparently and Taiwan are of the one part. If Taiwan is a part of China - and I do not necessarily accept this view myself; but in the legality of the world this is the way it goes- Chaing Kai-shek has no right to be the government of Taiwan and we have been supporting an illegal government there. But we could argue the inconsistencies of the Minister's position all the afternoon. 
The other dreadful exposure as I see it is the letters which were tabled by the Prime Minister - the letters that requested our support in Vietnam. The documents comprise a letter dated 29th April 1965 sent by the Australian Ambassador to the Republic of Vietnam headed by  Dr Phan  Huy Quat, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam and a reply from him. The first sentence of  Dr Quat's  letter states: 
I have the honour to refer to your letter of today's date confirming the Australian Government's offer to send to Vietnam an infantry battalion of 800 men. . . 
This document has exposed the lie of 6 or 7 years, of 2,500 wounded and of a country divided. It has exposed the absolute and continuing lie. There is no other description. This is not the kind of word I like to apply to my colleagues on one side or the other. But that to me exposes the lie of the last 6 or 7 years - the dreadful and tragic lie. That is what the people of Australia have to ponder at. 
What we ought to be doing this afternoon, is trying to establish some principles for what might be the new look of a new world. We on this side have felt that the new world was with us some 20 years or so ago. But it is obvious now that things are different, that the world is not the same, that we cannot look at the Asia phobia, of the hordes from the north that were going to come down and submerge us all. We cannot develop the China neurosis any more. We cannot look at China that way because no-one else in the world will accept it. We cannot look to 1942 and the United States alliance and all the things that the Americans were supposed to have saved us from then. The American alliance has been one of the continuing themes in attempting to prejudice the self reliance of Australia. I am for alliances but I have no faith in them. The American alliance has been one of the sacred cows of Australian politics for years. Now at last  even  the Government is starting to believe that it is one of those sacred cows that will never come home at milking time. 
Then we have claims about Communists submerging this part of the world. What is it all about? Why was the honourable member for Wannon speaking this way this afternoon? He was speaking to get Australian Democratic Labor Party preferences at the next election. What was the Minister for the Navy doing? He was speaking to protect his DLP preferences at the next election. I hope that the people of Australia will reject them with disgust. 
There has been a total change in the world. Back in the 1930s, it is true, the world was an imperialist one run mostly from Europe. Decisions to be made in Delhi were made in London; decisions to be made in Hanoi or Saigon were made in Paris; decisions to be made in Djakarta were made at The Hague; and the world was totally different. We have to look at it in a new way. No-one on this side knows what all the answers are. We know that the world is made up of cantankerous and obstreperous people, of people who are full of sentimental imperialist attitudes; of the Indonesians who want West Irian, not for the best benefit of the Papuans themselves but because it is part of their sentimental attachment. I believe that in a way the attitudes of the Chinese, whether it is Taiwan to the mainland or the mainland to Taiwan, belong to this mode of thought - sentimental imperialism is the term I would give it. It is not based on a consideration of human needs; it is based upon some flow-on from historical attitudes. This is what it is about in Ireland. This is why the Spanish want Gibraltar. 
We do not have to accept that from anyone. We should stand in the world with a vision of our own. This is a world of change and I think Australia can offer something completely different. In this total change - in this watershed of history of the last 20 years - for heaven's sake can we not get with it for a change? I believe the principles we have applied, or that we are hoping to apply in the development of an independent nation in Papua New Guinea and our attitude to Nauru, are the way in which we have to encourage the rest of the world to go. We are not so helpless. 
For 15 years I have sat here and heard it - the American alliance, to be saved from the surges from the north, cringing down in the south east corner of the continent, waiting for someone to save us. It is all rubbish. We on this side of the House have never believed in it. We are not help less. In the world at large battleships do not count for much any more. It will not matter how many ships of the Russians sail around in the Indian Ocean. They will not harm anyone unless someone organises a war. In that case all they have to do is press the trigger and then it will not matter how far away they are in modern terms. 
First of all, international affairs must be the politics of persuasion. Power will not work any more. All the power of the United States and all the power of the Russians cannot make the Egyptians and the Israelis come to terms until they decide to do so themselves, not that the two great powers could not demoralise them and demolish them in 5 minutes, but because it cannot really happen like that any more. 
I recall some 6 or 7 years ago speaking in Yugoslavia to a senior Yugoslav who said to me: 'Russia just has no influence now. It is just another big power.' What we have to realise is that there is in fact an effective world opinion that can work in causes of good. I know that this is an optimistic view of things. But as recently as the last 18 months - or the last 12 months - both Spain and Russia, neither of them notably perceptive or receptive of world opinion, refrained from executing people because of an outcry of world opinion. There is a world public opinion. I do not have time this afternoon to debate it or really to explain it all, but it is there in the history books of the last 20 years for those who wish to look. This is the influence we would have on China if we could get that country into the United Nations. We should get them into the United Nations and when they are there, we could resolve the problem of Taiwan in some other way. That is for them to resolve between them. I for one will take no part in the trading of people, no matter whosoever they are. It is a decision for the people of Taiwan to make on their own behalf; it is for the people of the world to protect their right to make it. But we have done very little about this matter so far. No-one can say that rump of a government in Taiwan is a really representative sample of what a government should be. 
But this afternoon, and in continuing debates, there has been a total exposure of the hypocrisy of the people opposite. 
They care nothing for anyone unless the Americans have cared first. Who cares what is happening to Cambodia? Not a sound is heard, not a funeral note is heard for the Cambodians who have committed no sins at all. They have been wrapped up in a war in which we have participated and aggravated and no-one cares. What about the people of Laos. What about the thousands of refugees whom our committee saw last year. Have they their blankets and ground sheets yet? Of course they have not. There is not a tear to be shed for the people of East Pakistan. If there was one liberation front that had a claim to have absolute and unqualified public support it is the people of East Pakistan. But there is not a sound from us, not a tear from the Prime Minister. No delegation is going off to say to Yahya Khan: 'Can you not just stop this now?' There is not a sound. What have we said about the Suez Canal and trying to correct the situation there? What have we done to try to convince the Indonesians that they ought not to be acting in the way they are? In West Irian there are lots of things that one could say. But I want to make clear the difference between ourselves and the people opposite. 
We start from an air of optimism; members on the other side operate from pessimism. We believe that it is possible to have a co-operative world; members on the other side of the House believe that they can solve problems by political and military power. We recognise that we live in a world of change while members opposite are looking backwards and trying to step back into the past. There is no place in the Government of this country for people who hold those views and I hope those honourable members opposite who still are sensitive to some of the decencies of Australian politics will tread as hard as they can on those people we heard here this afternoon - the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  the honourable member for Wannon, the Minister for the Navy and the disgraceful McCarthyist attacks on the Leader of the Opposition. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That the Standing Orders be amended by inserting after standing order 49 the following new standing order: 49a. That, at 10 p.m. each sitting day, the  Speaker  shall put the question: "That the House do now adjourn" which question shall be open to debate; if the House be in Committee at that hour, the  Chairman  shall in like manner put the question: "ThatI do leave the Chair and report to the House"; and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question: "That the House do now adjourn" which question shall be open to debate: Provided that if the House or the Committee be in division at the time named, the  Speaker  or the  Chairman  shall not put the question referred to until the result of such division has been declared: and if the business under discussion shall not have been disposed of at such adjournment it shall appear on the notice paper for the next sitting day.'. 

 Mr Speaker, this is a move for  10  o'clock closing. 
In addressing my question to the Prime Minister I refer to the letters tabled concerning the commitment of Australian troops to Vietnam. Does the Prime Minister admit that for 6 years the Government has misled the Australian public by persistent use of the suggestion that there had been a request from the Government of Vietnam, whereas the words used in both letters refer to Australia's offer? Does he not agree that this is a most dishonourable use of the English language? How in conscience can he justify the hundreds of lives lost for a lie? 
I just want to make it clear that I think it is terribly important that we do, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has suggested, examine this question of privilege. Privilege does not belong in this case, just to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren);  it belongs to the Parliament itself and, in a way, it belongs to the whole community. I believe that the failure to update the position is due to all of us having ignored the question over the years. It is not very often that anything occurs which demands our attention in this way. 1 am the first to admit that there are very serious implications for the community in a possible misuse of privilege. We can drag people to the Bar of the House; we can do all sorts of things to them; and there is no court of appeal. Therefore, to allow the position to continue is a serious abdication of our responsibilities. Of course, I am in no position to argue the legal point that the Minister for Foreign Affairs put here today. I can support the view that Professor Sawer put before the Committee. As I see the matter, it is very important that the membership of this Parliament be protected from any kind of arbitary or capricious prevention of attendance here. I believe that in the present state of society this is more important than it has been for a long while. Therefore I hope that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  will take immediate steps to do something about this matter. 
Let me express my disappointment that no members of the Privileges Committee who attended to this matter felt any need to expand on it. I would like to have heard from the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  exactly why he disagreed in the report. The rest of us have to rely on committee memberships in these matters. That is basic to the whole situation. That is why I just sat here. Ordinarily I am not diffident about getting to my feet, as honourable members will be aware. There are some matters that transcend any personal or political considerations. It does not matter to me what the politics of the honourable member concerned are in matters such as this. On the Privileges Com mittee there were at least 2 people who had a view which apparently was very much different from or contrary to that of the majority. I think they should have placed their reasons on record. Therefore, I can only express my disappointment at the Committee's failure to expand the debate in the House and my hope that the Attorney-General will take urgent steps to have us launched into a new look at privilege, even if we do only what has been done for the Northern Territory and Papua New Guinea. 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Darling making a statement. 
In speaking to the motion I point out that the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  is the former secretary of the Barrier Industrial Council. He knows more about the situation in Broken Hill than anyone else in this House does. We have heard on successive days in this House attacks upon the trade union movement by honourable members opposite to which there is no public answer. For the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  to say that the honourable member for Darling can answer on the adjournment debate is utterly ridiculous. The broadcast of Parliamentary proceedings ceases immediately the motion is put 'That the House do now adjourn'. Ministers do not remain in the chamber to listen to the adjournment debate, the public will not hear it, the Press will not report it and any attempt to muzzle the honourable member for Darling in this instance is an abdication of our responsibilities to the principle of free speech. 

 - Mr Speaker, I propose to oppose the Standing Orders Committee's recommendation although I am a member of it. 1 do so because I do not think that the Parliament has given sufficient consideration at this stage to the proposed amendment to the hours of meeting and all the other things that are involved. I do not believe that this is the way we ought to handle this matter, it will be very complicated. We have before us the report and the motion that the report be adopted. If any honourable member wishes to move an amendment he has to move an amendment to the report and not to the Standing Orders. I hope that in future we will take more care about this. As a result of a decision of the former Prime Minister, the Rt  Hon.  member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  honourable members have been released at least from one of the imprisonments of Party discipline in these matters and they are free to make up their own minds. I hope that honourable members will do this, that they will consider the matter and make decisions based upon some of the principles on which this Parliament ought to meet. 
My interest in this matter is not so much in the days on which we meet as that the Parliament meets for an adequate number of days, that those honourable members who travel long distances to get here are given reasonable consideration and that the staff in this place, including people such as ourselves, are also given reasonable consideration. I will later move an amendment to provide for the motion for the adjournment being put at 10 o'clock. The Leader of the House, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  said that we need regular days for electoral work, and that the subject of days of sitting had been referred to the Government parties. During the recess I noticed that after the donnybrook that the Prime 
Minister  (Mr McMahon)  managed to precipitate at the end of last session, honourable members on the Government side, inert as they normally are, had risen in some sort of half-heatred revolt, so a committee was appointed to examine the situation. T took a dim view of that. 
The Standing Orders and the procedures of the House belong to all of us. I do not believe that there is a partisan political point in any of us unless it is the necessity for people to escape from the place, to escape Opposition criticism or honourable members of the Opposition wanting to go home to do something or another in their electorates. But it is not a Party political matter. The Standing Orders belong to all of us in this place. Under the present system the Standing Orders Committee has examined this matter. We appointed a sub-committee and drew up a schedule of possible days of meeting. We gave it a lot of consideration, talked to a number of people around the place and made a recommendation. 1 do not believe that we are being treated with proper courtesy in this regard, and I record my dissent. In other words, the House of Representatives in this Parliament is involved, not just the political Party opposite. The Leader of the House said that the present system had had a reasonable trial. That is not so. I do not know how many times we ran the 4-day sequence, that is, 2 weeks on, 1 week off, 2 weeks on and so on but I think probably it was done only once in a full sequence since it was introduced last year, so it has not had a fair trial. 1 can understand the complete dissatisfaction of every honourable member in this House with the way in which this place is conducted. The way in which we operate shows a complete lack of consideration for the staff, for the families of honourable members and for the public generally. I oppose the return to a 2i-day week. It is not, in fact, a 2i-day week even though we meet in the evenings. We will meet on Tuesday afternoon, Wednesday afternoon and Thursday morning sitting into that evening. They are long days, true enough, but in anybody's language that is really a 2-day week. The hours set down are extraordinarily inconsiderate to everybody concerned. I do not believe that the business of the nation can be considered properly in 2i days. I have noticed that my colleague, the honourable member tor Banks  (Mr Martin),  has circulated a suggestion that we meet on Tuesday morning instead of Tuesday afternoon, and my colleague the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  has circulated a suggestion for a 4-day or 5-day week. 
I cannot see how we can possibly manage the affairs of this nation in  2i  days in a week or on the days that we are now here. I do not know what the difference is between myself and other honourable members in regard to our psychological, spiritual and political system, but by the time we get here and get ourselves organised we have to pack up and leave again. I know from my 15 or 16 years experience in this place that the continual gathering in, and disintegration of. this place mean that we do not do the work which I believe the people of this nation send us here to do. My own view is that we should meet at least on 4 days a week with reasonable commencing times and reasonable knocking off times. It is my view that we ought to establish some principle such as, for example, that we meet in February, March, April and May for the first 2 or 3 weeks in the beginning of each month and then have one week off so that everybody - ourselves, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the people who supply accommodation for us in Canberra, will know what is going on. We could adjust the system to a ratio of the number of days needed to discuss the matters with which this Parliament is concerned. I do not believe that we can any longer fit the business of the nation into 60 working days in a year. It is utter nonsense to suggest that we can. I hope that at some stage in the not too distant future we will actually examine this question and do something in the way of a time and motion study on how many days are required to deal with matters before the Parliament and to give honourable members a reasonable degree of convenience. I say that this cannot be done by meeting fewer than 100 days a year. What does that involve, a terrible hardship? That is 25 4-day weeks. That still leaves a fair number of days off for the rest of the year. Did not honourable members know before they were elected that this Parliament met in Canberra? 
I will do that. It is 16,000 hours since you were elected at the last election by the failure and misgivings of the people in the electorate of North Sydney and we have met for 1,073 hours of them. We should be saying that this is probably a 100-day a year job in Canberra. How do we fit this in so that people can do the work properly? It is 25 4-day weeks or 20 5-day weeks. No-one would run any other institution in this way. We should give serious consideration to this suggestion. As someone remarked earlier, it is the only asylum in the world that is run by its inmates and they are making a mess of it. The whole situation is ridiculous, and I believe that the situation which has accrued since the last Federal election is a national scandal. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who I presume is able to read - I understand that is still a requirement for Liberal Party endorsement - will notice that on top of today's notice paper there is printed 'No. 109'. That means that we have met for 109 days since this session began, as well as the one day when we came here after the last election. That is, we have met for 110 days out of the last 667 or 668 days. Can any honourable member say, firstly, that this is a reasonable way to treat the business of this nation, or secondly, that it interferes with his electoral work? The most serious infringement upon the human beings in this game is the way we treat ourselves and our families. 
I have absolutely and unqualified sympathy for any honourable member who needs to go and do something for his family life or his family affairs, but no other consideration should prevent our being in our place in this House. Now it is proposed to change the system because honourable -members are saying - I sympathise with them - that they have to be in their electorates on Mondays. Since the 25th October 1969 we have met on 4 Mondays. That is not a serious disenfranchisement out of the 90 Mondays since then. The Fridays have been interfered with. That made things terribly inconvenient. Out of the 90 Fridays we have met on about 16 of them. It is time that we applied ourselves with some rational attitude to this matter of the number of days, the amount of time and the facilities required. 1 have absolute and unqualified sympathy for my colleagues who live beyond the capital cities. The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  has a long haul across the continent when he goes home each week and then has to travel 150 miles to his home after disembarking from the aircraft. The honourable member for Malley  (Mr Turnbull)  flies to Melbourne and then has 165 miles to go to his home. It is a difficult matter. The same applies to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  I admit we would be better off if some of them stayed at home, but while they are elected to this Parliament I am prepared to support them. So in this instance 1 am voting for the honourable member for Forrest as I think he has the greatest difficulties of all. Is it not possible for us in considering this matter to give greater thought to the needs of the Parliament and the rational way to go about meeting those needs? As I said before, it is a national scandal that we have met so infrequently since 1969. It is completely inconsiderate to meet  2i  days a week, with people rushing back and forth around the continent. As I have pointed out, the Parliament has met for 1,073 of the last 16,000 hours. I know that electoral functions and responsibilities are demanding and are important. My friends said to me yesterday when arguing about this matter: 'When do you do your electoral work?' I think that on the whole I do my electoral work as conscientiously as anybody else does his. I also recognise that, with 120,000 citizens whose principal contribution to Australian politics is their accurate political perception, half a dozen ombudsmen could not handle all the problems in my electorate, which contains one of the largest concentrations of migrants in Australia. 
One can only do what comes ones way and only in the essence of the contract, which is to meet in Parliament, to commune and console, to oppose, amend and alter the way the country is run. One cannot do it anywhere else. At this point I appeal for something to be done about accommodation in Canberra for members of this Parliament. Honourable members should be provided with adequate accommodation in Canberra. I can think of no reason why there should not be 185 units of adequate accommodation in Canberra. If an honourable member wants a hotel room for himself or a house for himself and his family, it should be there for him. I believe it is a serious reflection on Australian national life that in the 40odd years the Parliament has been in Canberra no serious consideration has been given to the family life of honourable members. The Parliament's members have enough difficulties through the tyranny of distance, as somebody called it. We must try to resolve the problem. 
So I oppose the proposed amendment of the Standing Orders and I move the following amendment which relates to adjourning at 10 o'clock at night. One would think it could be clone in fewer words. I move: 
That after the word 'Committee' (last occurring) the following words be inserted: -and by inserting after standing order 49 the following new standing order: 49a. That, at 10 p.m. each sitting day, the  Speaker  shall put the questionthat the House do now adjourn which question shall be open to debate; if the House be in committee at that hour, the  Chairman  shall in like manner put the questionthat he do leave the Chair and report to the House; and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the questionthat the House do now adjourn which question shall be open to debate: Provided that if the House or the committee be in division at the time named, the  Speaker  of the  Chairman  shall not put the question referred to until the result of such division has been declared; and if the business under discussion shall not have been disposed of at such adjournment it shall appear on the Notice Paper for the next sitting day. 
I believe it is quite ridiculous to go on working here after 10 o'clock at night. No other organisation to which I belong considers it reasonable to continue meeting after 10 o'clock at night. I had a few words to say earlier in this discussion about the way in which we meet so briefly during the daylight hours. It is a fact, of course, that most honourable members turn up here at about 9 o'clock in the morning and that an honourable member's working day in Canberra is usually about 12 or 13 hours whether Parliament is sitting or not. It is no way to treat ourselves and it is no way to treat the country. I know that each honourable member returning to his electorate is likely to be faced with another 10 or 12 hours a day work in his electorate, even on Saturday or Sunday. The least we can do for ourselves as part of humanity, if we cannot be humane to the rest of Australia, is to adjourn at 10 o'clock. 
I would, with some brevity, support the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  The House knows my opinion quite well but I do think that one bas to reinforce it here as often as possible. The morality of conscription has not become a matter of public debate of sufficient magnitude to make people stop and think about it. I have said before and I say it directly to the Ministers who are here now that the young men whom I know are not pacifists. Many of them cannot claim to be conscientious objectors in the sense that that phrase is used in the Act. But they are conscientious and objectors. 
They have a deep feeling about this matter in such a way that I believe we are morally bound to find an alternative to putting them in gaol. When I say that they are not conscientious objectors within the meaning of the Act, I mean that they are simply straightforward, dinkum Australians. Many of them - not all of them - say to me in private conversation that if the country were attacked they would defend it. 1 believe that they are expressing the best of the Australian spirit when they stand up against everything which is involved in this matter, sometimes their parents, the community and all the rest of it. We are not paying proper respect to the spirit which is involved in this situation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That Charles Martin,  a  24yearold graduate in building technology, and Geoffrey Mullen,  a  24yearold graduate in political science, are serving a two year gaol sentence for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions. 
That their failure to comply with the Act was done as  a  matter of conscience, and that their imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision  to  send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled from the record all convictions made remove from the record all convictions made under it, and cause Charles Martin and Geoffrey Mullen, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released and cease all further prosecutions under it. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will o'er pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Ordered that the petition be printed. 

 Mr BRYANT (Wills)- In accordance with the requirements of standing order 132 I inform the House that 1 intend to submit a notice of motion in connection with the petition: 
That the House of Representatives appoint a select committee to inquire into and report upon the provisions of the National Service Act relating to conscription. 
 I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That the House of Representatives appoint a select committee to inquire into and report upon the provisions of the National Service Act relating to conscription. 
I regard this as a very dangerous procedure. We have before us a statement about a Bill which contains 3 short clauses, including one which says: 
Validation of provisions of Australian Capita! Territory Evidence Ordinance 1971. 
How many honourable members at present in this House have a copy of that? Hasit been distributed? Is there a memorandum with it? I have a copy. It contains 33 pages and has 97 clauses concerning the rights of people before the courts, and the duties of the courts to the 120,000 who  live  in the Australian Capital Territory and to those who pass through it. I will not raise objection when the matter comes to the voting stage this time, but how on earth can we proceed in this way? The Senate in its wisdom passed the Bill. Honourable senators have been debating it for weeks. The Bill has come to this House; we have not considered it in any way; we do not know what is contained in it. I have not the competence to judge from a chance examination whether it is good, bad or indifferent. Do not tell me that legislation cannot pass through this Parliament after fairly close examination and still contain bad law. If this is the procedure this Parliament is to adopt we are departing from everything that Parliament is about. Let me record my protest in the strongest possible way that I do not believe we ought to pass this Bill this day in this manner. The Minister just stood and closed the debate. The other day he was talking about such matters as the civil rights. I do not think he knows what they mean. In the other place the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  said that the Senate had no right to do what it did because it was not the Government of the country. The Parliament is the Government of the country.  A  similar situation developed once before when the prisoners who were in Goulburn gaol had to be let out because the law was inadequate. I, with whatever power I have as a 125th part of this House, will not consent to this kind of procedure at any future time. 
I want to make a brief comment about this. It is true, as the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  says, that this procedure is traditional. There are a lot of traditions, of course, that are worth preservation, lt used to be traditional to burn witches. It used to be traditional to do all sorts of things. It used to be traditional not to give people a vote if they did not have enough property. It is traditional still around Australia to rig electoral boundaries in favour of country areas. I do not think we need to preserve tradition on this, because traditions are not those things which this Government creates. In a moment the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  will probably say that between 1946 and 1949 the Labor Government did worse things. I was not here then and I am  not sure  about it. But I do believe it is important that we should take some steps to preserve the rights of the rank and file members of this Parliament, not only on this side of the House but on the other side too as the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has pointed out, and to bring forward public business and have it discussed with regularity and without, interference. I believe we should abide by the standing order that prevails in the House of Commons which provides that there shall be 10 Fridays on which private members' Bill have precedence over Government Bills and 10 other Fridays and 4 days other than Fridays until 7 p.m. upon which private members' motions enjoy a similar precedence, etc. 
So that what happens in the House of Commons, as I understand it, is that at the beginning of each session - its session is not quite the same as ours - there is a conference between both sides of the House at which it is decided what days these will be. The members then know for sure that on such-and-such a day general business will proceed. The Opposition there is given many more rights than the Opposition here has. From my studies I believe that this is the most suppressed Opposition that one will find in any similar parliamentary system. There is no possibility of our initiating anything in this place. There is no possibility of any private member's Bill getting onto the stocks, being deliberated and even being discarded, let alone accepted. The Government never accepts an amendment from this side of the House. At question time Ministers make all sorts of statements and there is no way of answering them. When honourable members on this side of the House seek leave to make statements in reply they are not given leave. 
This Parliament meets less often than any equivalent parliament. Since 1969 when we were elected this Parliament has met on 113 days. I looked up the figures and found that the House of Commons in the same time has met on about 310 days, Congress has met on about 280 days, the Canadian Parliament has met on 208 or 220 days and the New Zealand Parliament has met on 150 days. Even the Tasmanian Parliament has met more times than we have since 1969. As we go on we get continuing demands to accept the tradition. More and more the axe falls on us. I for one accept the offer from this side of the House on this occasion with great reluctance. I believe there is more to this than just the simple statement by the Leader of the House that it has a precedent, it is a tradition, we have been doing it for 10 years and anyhow we can talk about any matter in the Budget debate. Last year I was not listed to participate in the Budget debate until somebody dropped out. The previous year 1 did not speak in it at all. Honourable members cannot speak on specific issues in the Budget debate; it is nonsense to say they can. I believe we should move towards the system adopted in the House of Commons - it seems to be a good precedent - in which a substantial amount of time is allotted. There is no interruption. We can do this in some kind of conference between both sides of the House. 
In civilised discussions of decisions between majorities and minorities we have to accept the rule that even though the other chap does not have the numbers we have to listen to him some of the time. On this occasion I believe we are continuing a very bad precedent and, like the honourable member for Riverina, I think we will have to get our muzzles loaded and everything charged to ensure that we do not allow this practice to continue. The Leader of the House, a man of great economy in terms of parliamentary time, has made sure that we suspend next week without having a discussion of this sort. Next week it will be grievance day, I suppose, so he will bring in a motion about that and then say it is traditional, we have been doing it since 1906 or 1910 or 1919. I believe, as does the honourable member for Riverina, that we must not let this procedure go any further. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is quite a pity that the honourable member for MacArthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  should have had to complete his speech in such a hurry. I thought that, at some stage, he was almost coming to one of the points of crisis. He was recognising that there will not be a sellers market any more - not that he was going to recognise any fact apart from that or do anything on the subject, except perhaps to ensure that workers' wages were cut or that they were put out of work. I understand that we are to make a mint of money out of the bauxite discovered in Arnhem Land. The principal sufferers there will be the Aboriginals who are being displaced. The principal profiteers will be the people of Switzerland who own most of the productive capacity. 
I think that I ought to answer several other points made by the honourable member for MacArthur. He did pass remarks about the Labor movement, demonstrations and  Mr Hawke.  Before I came into the House a few moments ago, I heard the announcement that the Australian Cricket Board of Control had decided not to invite the South Africans to play cricket in Australia in the coming cricket season. The tour has been cancelled. I congratulate the Cricket Board of Control upon that decision. But the Board would not have made that decision which I think is so vital to Australia's standing in this part of the world and to the creation of a proper world opinion against the policies of South Africa but for the vigour with which people opposed the Rugby tour some months ago. It is a tribute to all of those people who faced the ignominy, the denigration and the assault by police that this tour has been called off. It is a tribute to the good sense of the Cricket Board of Control and demonstrates the complete lack of nerve of the Government because it has left Australia's foreign policy to be decided by that Board of Control. 
I wish to deal with one other point made by the honourable member for MacArthur. It concerns  Mr Hawke,  the 

 President of the Australian Council of Trade Unions.  Mr Hawke,  in the last 12 months, has 2 remarkable achievements to his credit. One was on the question of resale price maintenance. This was achieved without much harm to anybody. The Dunlop company was quietly told what would happen unless it came into line on the matter. This policy had substantial public support. Its support included even that of this Government. The other remarkable achievement was on the subject of penal clauses. 
Some 5 months or 6 months ago, 1 could see coming up in the trade union movement a major confrontation between this Government and the trade unions. ( know the people involved quite well. I know how determined were my friends on the other side of the House that the trade union movement was to be challenged. 1 know the trade union movement well enough to recognise that the people who lead it will not be trampled on. 
What did we find? I presumed that we were to have a long hard winter. I believed that we would have one of the greatest industrial confrontations in Australian history. That is not what happened. In the end. discussions took place between the representatives of the employers and  Mr Hawke,  with the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  sulking in the corner. There was nothing he could do about it. That crisis has now passed. T believe that this was a great achievement on the part of the people involved particularly  Mr Hawke. 
We are speaking on the Budget. Perhaps nearly everything that could be said or that ought to be said on the subject has been said. My friend from Reid  (Mr Uren)  has raised the question of the environment. My friend from Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  has spoken about primary industry and in particular one small segment of it that is often overlooked - the poultry industry. My opponent from Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  on the other side of the House, has been wringing his hands and weeping about our failure to develop the tourist industry. My own local member, the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  has been giving the Government some advice about depreciation allowances. I have no doubt that neither of them will ever vote against the Government on the most simple matter or the most simple amendment: they will continue to wring their hands until we ring them out of the Parliament. 
The Budget is an important social document - or it ought to be. It is the document containing the public accounts. It explains how all the money which is reefed off the community is to be spent - we hope for the community's advantage. Perhaps we expect too much from it. Perhaps all those people who come to make representations to us before Budget time each year - now they are beginning to come to us at the beginning of each year - are expecting too much. They are expecting too much from a government such as this one, anyhow. The Budget is a document of various kinds. It is a description of the difficulties of the country and it ought to be a prescription for solving them. But what is the quality of thought that we find in the Budget? I turn to the Budget Speech of the Treasurer (Mr Snedden) and I find that he is concerned with matters such as this: 
Even more than usually the Government has this year found it necessary to shape its Budget to serve an overriding economic purpose. 
The Government never considers matters affecting people. I now turn to the speech on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  He stated: 
We are, 1 agree, now facing problems because cost and price inflation has recently gathered pace. 
He mentions that there is likely to be an increase in unemployment. He does not mention that he is going to do anything about it. We all recognise that substantial difficulties are facing the Australian community. The economists, the Treasurer, the Prime Minister and the Reserve Bank have all had something to say about it. In the 1970-71 report of the Reserve Bank of Australia we read: 
The growth in total spending, in real terms, tended to ease in 1970-71 to a rate slightly below that of potential supply. This was reflected in earlier conditions in the labour market as indicated by declines in job vacancies and by some increase in the number of registered unemployed. 
That is what it says, amongst other things, in its consideration of the year in brief. What I want to emphasise is the term 'easier conditions in the labour market'. What that means is that more people were unemployed. The most depressing theme in the whole consideration of the situation in Australia is that people run last and that for some reason or other it is the public accounts, as accounts, that matter. I believe that this is a total abdication of our responsibility and a reversal of what the priorities ought to be. I am fortified, one might say, in my despair about the kind of people who run the place by turning to some of the previous Budget Speeches that have become enshrined in the political literature of this nation. Here is a statement in 1956 by the Right Honourable  Sir Arthur  Fadden, a distinguished coiner of phrases. I remember on one occasion that he said we had to soak up our surplus spending power. I will take a phrase at random: 
These figures show that except in the case of farm income all the main aggregates of income and expenditure rose considerably during the last financial year. 
We go on and we find him saying: 
Nevertheless, there was a marked levelling ofl in income and expenditure trends towards the second half of the financial year. 
So he was going to do something about that. Then we take a statement at random from the 1960-61 Budget Speech. The right honourable Harold Holt said: 
The Government has now taken stock of the position again in the light of recent trends and the prospects ahead so far as they can be seen. 
Government supporters are always wringing their hands about a situation which seems to be beyond their control, but if we take the last 16 or 17 Budget Speeches they are all of the same sort - they all say the same thing and they all get nowhere. There seems to be no quality of thought behind them at all. We find in this Budget Speech the same sort of stuff - inflation, costs, limitation and pruning. We find complacency on things like education, national development and social services. My complaint is that it is a totally pedestrian approach to the government of Australia, totally non-visionary. I do not really expect the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to listen. He has been here for 12 or 13 years. 
Well, I do not know that it is. After all, it has made no difference. He has been here for 12 or 13 years and in not one single speech have I ever heard from him a reference to any vision or any opportunity to expand the community in any way. So I do not think there is much point in him listening now. 
As I look at the Budget 1 see no recognition of the influence of government on people's lives. In the last 60 or 70 years there has been a total revolution in what government means. When we established this Parliament in 1900 it had nothing to do with education. It was a totally regulatory and negative system of government. The government adjusted things here and there; it raised a bit of revenue out of customs or something such as that for the public account; it organised some defence services and it did something about the Post Office; but it cared nothing about education. Education was not its responsibility. Education, in a large measure was not even recognised as a general community responsibility. The Government had no social services to worry about in a large measure, and very few public works. 
What do we see in 1971? This Budget document and this Government, with its antennae, one might say, spread throughout the community, has a total effect upon the way people live. It has something to do with the day to day life of every citizen. The Australian Government now builds ships and aircraft. It plans cities. It is making quite a job of Canberra, I admit. It makes some errors here and there but on the whole we are building a city in a magnificent fashion. It is more or less planning and organising new cities in the Northern Territory. It controls markets, which would have been almost unbelievable 60 or 70 years ago. It delivers the mail. It handles people at airports, takes them through Customs and things like that. It is responsible for social services. It is the foster parent for thousands of children of people lost in the wars. The type and style of government is tremendously important to every person in the community. So I look in vain in the Budget for such things as Aboriginal advancement. One has not time to devote to that cause this evening. But what do we intend to do about the tragic rate of Aboriginal infant mortality which is, I understand, in parts of the Northern Territory 10 times that of the white community? 
What do we intend to do about education? I taught in the Victorian education service for some 20 years. In 1938 I was at the Melbourne Teachers College and as one does in this situation I taught some classes for a few terms at schools in my own electorate in Brunswick and Coburg, particularly in Brunswick. Nearly every child in those schools was better served in 1938 than he would be in 1971. In 1971 every building that the children occupy is nearly 40 years older than those the children occupied in 1938. In 1938 every teacher who stood in front of a class was fully trained. Every class was smaller than it is today. Education must be one of the few areas of public or private endeavour in which the community is basically worse off in 1970 and 1971 than it was in 1939 and 1940. What are we doing about urban living? Why have we not started to plan new cities? I look in vain for any provision for that in the Budget. Frankly, I shudder at some areas of the Budget. I shudder at the indirect taxation system. It is becoming a malaise. It has gone beyond the stage of just creating difficulties in the community. The indirect taxation system has become so inbuilt now that we have the kind of nonsense the Victorian Government is perpetuating. It is worthwhile people taking a look at what happened in the 1640s when the people of Britain rose in revolt against this kind of nonsense. 
We have allowed interest rates to get to the stage of absolute usury where they cripple people who buy houses and land and who run farms. We are making postal services not part of the community's social service, which is what they ought to be, but something loo expensive for the people to afford. I believe a communication system between citizens is a fundamental right in a democracy and we are starting to make it almost impossible for people to use the system. Every one of us here knows this. The Minister for Shipping and Transport must know this through his own local organisations and so on. I take it that every one of us in this place has to deal with hundreds of people at a time. We want to send notices to people and organisations in our electorates, and now the basic postal rate has gone up to 7c or some such ridiculous rate. It would be cheaper in my electorate to get in a taxi to deliver 200 or 300 notices. So we have complacency in various areas and, I believe, mischievous financial policies in others. 
My real grief is the total lack of vision shown in the Budget. This Government is totally inert. There is not one single new idea flowing from it anywhere. I know the people opposite very well. Some of us have sat here together for 16 or 17 years. We have travelled overseas together and I have talked to them privately. I have met them publicly and we have been on platforms together, but while I have no disregard for them at all as persons my deep grief is the total lack of vision that they are able to bring to the government of this country. I know the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  well enough to know that in the 15 or 16 years I have been here I have never heard him express one new, fresh, visionary idea. The same can be said about the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The same thing applies to my friend the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who was elected to thc Parliament on the same day as I was. Then we have the new Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland).  I have nothing against the new Minister for Supply. How could I? I do not know the man. He has been here for only 2 years. 
I do not know, but he is going to pick up Australia's aircraft industry and make it go with a boom. He is going to take hold of our munitions manufacturing, docks, Woomera and the rest of our bases with their rockets and make them whiz. We hardly even know that he is in the Ministry. I do not believe that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  knows what the inside of a workshop is. I do not believe he has the slightest conception of what he is doing to the young people of Australia through the national service system. Then there is my friend the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  I must say that he and perhaps the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  are 2 people who occasionally - not very often - have expressed some vision and so they do not get anywhere. This country was built on vision. 
I have here a book titled 'Historical Records of Australia'. We should take a look at what Phillip had to face when he established Sydney 160 or 170 years ago, the tremendous difficulties and the hopeless task he had to face. He had a vision of a country that would become, I think he says somewhere, one of Britain's greatest and richest possessions. We should remember Chifley and his light on the hill. We should remember the people who established the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. What was it all about? It was to cost $ 1,000m in 1948-49 when the country had a gross national product of perhaps $6,000m or $7,000m at the most. One-sixth of the country's gross national product was planned to be spent on one single project. Can honourable members imagine this Government setting out on a project which was to cost $6,000m or $7,000m? Somehow we have to challenge this Australian Micawberism which just waits for somebody else to do things. It seems to me that the facts are clear enough. 1 have 3 or 4 minutes left and I want to place some facts before those people who care to stop and listen or look or read. 
It does not matter whether they stop and listen. I suppose it will not make any difference. Let us look at the countries which are almost industrially self-sufficient. We can start with Britain and the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, some of the Scandinavian countries, Sweden, France, Italy, Japan, Australia and Canada. There are 10 or 12 of them. Let us now look at the countries which are almost self-sufficient in primary production. They are Australia, Canada perhaps, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America. What others? Then we can look at the countries which are almost self-sufficient in minerals. There is Australia. Who else? I have not time this evening to set out the tables I have available. 
I have here an interesting table giving a general review of these matters. It deals with Australia's self-sufficiency in the principal mineral commodities starting with alumina and finishing with zircon. There are SO of them. In 25 of these minerals we are 100 per cent self-sufficient: of most of the others we have sufficient. So here Aus tralia has the opportunity to be different in every single area. Its industrial capacity is one of the largest in the world. It has a level of primary production that is an embarrassment. It has minerals almost beyond belief when compared with what we used to think it had. We have an administrative capacity to do whatsoever we will. As I see it our problem is that we are completely bound by other people's economic theories. The problems that are created in Europe and America are different from our own; the opportunities that flow to those countries are different from our own. What I want to see is a new vision and opportunity. I do not know what the term is that should be used. L. B. Johnson called it the 'great society'. I think we should try to produce the human society. We have been through the agricultural society, the stone age society and the industrial society and it is time for us to start putting humanity first. I do not know whether my friend, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  is smiling at my 
Utopian  vision of  a  country that has to put up with him in it or whether he is supporting my theories. 
I believe we have passed  one of the  watersheds of human society. We have come to the stage where we can produce whatever we need. In my electorate  we  can produce almost enough stockings to put a new pair on every woman in Australia every week. Of course, my wife says that their quality is such that that is about what we need to do. We can produce a new motor car for every family in Australia probably every 2 years. We are  now  faced with an embarrassment of riches. We might have  to  redeploy 500,000 people. We might have to replan cities and  we  are one country which has the capacity and resources  to do  it. But  we  are totally inhibited by restrictions imposed upon us by our past, by waiting for something  to  turn up. by waiting  for  somebody else  to do  it first and by a totally inert Ministry which is without vision beyond belief. 
I want to say one or two things because I believe that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has devoted the whole of his 20 minutes to an abstract study of Australian economics based upon the very abstruse theories upon which the country has proceeded for the last few years. The principles upon which this Party bases its policy have escaped his notice. It is one of the tragedies of Australian politics that he happens to be Minister for Housing. He has no understanding of the human suffering that lies behind these figures at all. I rise just for a moment or two to say one or two things. I represent one of the industrial centres of Australia. It has a population of 120,000. It has, according to the last census, one of the greatest concentrations of migrant population in Australia. One has only to drive down Sydney Road, pause for a few minutes and take a step to the left or the right down any of the streets, knock on the second, third or fourth door and one will find pensioners, migrants, children and deserted wives living in poverty. One will find people on the basic wage living in poverty because the housing policy, the social services policy and the employment and general social structural policies of this Government have failed to face the fact that the ultimate, direct and absolute responsibility of government is people. 
As I said in the Budget debate last night I believe that we have an opportunity that is completely different from that of the rest of the world because we are in a unique situation resulting from our great capacity in the industrial area, in the primary production area and in mineral deposits. For the Minister for Housing to be satisfied that we are third or fourth best in the world is not good enough because the opportunities are pre-eminent and they surpass those of overseas nations. We do not face the tremendous social problems of the United States. So we on this side of the House say that social services is the way in which government redistributes income to take up the difference between a decent standard of living and the poverty line which is inflicted upon some 1 million Australians - that is as far as we can see, but it might be even more. There can be no escape from that. 
No rhetoric, no sophistry, no multiplication of figures and no statement that we are now paying out more cash benefits than ever before can deny the fact. This use of absolutes - that the population of Australia is larger than it was ever before; therefore the amount of money spent on social services must be larger than ever before even if the benefits are relatively the same - is not relevant. I did not intend to take part in the debate on the Social Services Bill but I do so because the Minister for Housing has given a typical example of Liberal Party philosophy - if philosophy is not too kind a term to place upon such a miserable misuse of rhetoric. He dodged and avoided and abdicated his responsibility. He should take a close look at how the people of Australia live and  i  weep for the people who will have to wait for houses while he stays on as the Minister responsible for housing. 
I take it that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has moved that these matters be struck from the notice paper or expunged from the record. Is that so? 
Let me take No. 51- the teaching of Asian languages and cultures in Australia. This report was placed before this House some time earlier this year. I personally asked the Minister to bring it on during the last session and he said 'Yes, I will see whether we can do that' but he has not done this. There is no chance of its coming on during this session, by the looks of things, and to add insult to injury he will now remove from the notice paper what I consider one of the vital subjects of Australian education. If we are to continue to run this place in this manner then it is a charade. As my friend the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  has said, the place is becoming redundant. 
He is right. I sympathise with the Minister's position in this matter but something must be done to allow the Parliament itself to decide what matters it will discuss. If we had a proper consultative system between the parties in which a team from each side could sit down and discuss matters and decide on the way in which to handle these things there might be some point in it. 
As a conductor,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you seem to be able to generate a good deal of audience participation. The teaching of Asian languages and cultures in Australia is a subject which has been neglected for years. That is one point I take on this issue. The other point I make is this: Would it not have been a matter of courtesy to the House for the 
Minister to have announced that he proposed to take this step? I cannot see anything on the blue sheet. 
Yes, instead of our having to put on a blue, let the Government put this information on the blue. Would it not have been simple courtesy to the Opposition to let it know what the Government was proposing to do so that the members of the Opposition could consider the matter? It was just by chance that I heard of this. We have come to the stage now where we cannot believe anything that we have been promised in the past and there is no hope for the future. The Parliament is operating with a total disregard for the decencies of ordinary social intercourse and I personally object to this item being removed from the notice paper. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Which (a) public and (b) private secondary schools in the Electoral Division of Wills have received Commonwealth grants towards (i) construction of science laboratories, (ii) equipment for science laboratories and (iii) construction of library facilities. 
What sum was allocated to each school, and in which year was the grant made in each case. 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. A week or so ago another young man was imprisoned for 2 years under the National Service Act. That makes three of them, as I understand it. What right has he to play God with another man's life and freedom? 
-The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is broken hearted because he has to pay more for postage stamps than he used to pay. He agrees in principle with what we from this side of the House say but, of course, the last thing he will do is vote for our amendment. According to the type of logic from which his politics are derived he has very sound reasons for doing so. At least it is heartening that he has acknowledged the problems. Of course the problems are created by the financial eccentricities of the honourable members opposite. As I sit here I see over on my left - purely physically - the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes).  I recall that about 6, 7 or 8 years ago during one of these racecourse rushes to increase postal charges the Minister's contribution to the debate was simply to stand and with broken heart say: 'Those whom the Gods would destroy they first make mad'. My colleague from Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  described the intitial arrangement whereby the Post Office is charged interest as the triumph of Treasury doctrine over common sense. Frankly I cannot understand that situation. This afternoon I heard the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  with the normal apologia for whatever the Government happens to do. I have heard honourable members say that interest is part of the inevitability of mankind. We have the air we breathe, the water we drink, life and interest. It seems to be the inevitable infliction of humanity. How can the interest charges possibly be justified? This year an interest charge of $140m is being loaded on to the Post Office. 1 do not believe that there is any explanation which I have heard in the 6 or 7 years since the interest charge was introduced which can possibly justify it. Of course honourable members opposite will say: 'Well, money is being taken from somewhere in the community and now interest has to be paid'. I believe that the attitude which is adopted toward public accounts - the procedures which we operate between individuals in these matters - is quite invalid. I suppose that in theory we are saying: 'Make posterity pay'. In this instance we are trying to make posterity pay by charging interest. I shall put the matter as a simple equation: How can we borrow from tomorrow; how can we pay back yesterday? That is just a piece of archaic nonsense. I believe it is inflicting the Post Office with costs which make it impossible for the Post Office to operate in the social atmosphere which is necessary. As people say - it is a handy analogy - we are speaking of an institution which is twice the size of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. 
My colleague from St George  (Mr Morrison)  pointed out that if we take the matter of productivity the Post Office does quite well in relation to its previous efforts. One sees this continual oddity in the financial arrangements of the Post Office. Some of these arrangements I cannot understand. I cannot understand the interest charges. There is another matter which I cannot understand unless my arithmetic is completely haywire. I turn to the statistics and I see that we carried 13 million lb of airmail last year at a total cost of $4.9m. My arithmetic will probably be proved wrong. Of course I am not always right. Unlike the Government I do not claim to be infallible. If we carried 13 million lb of airmail for $4.9m that means that we paid 35c a lb to the airlines for the carriage of airmail. If we paid that amount we paid the same rate on every letter as if we shifted it from Melbourne to Cairns. The air cargo rate is 34c a lb from Melbourne to Cairns, and from Melbourne to Perth. Is it not logical that the great bulk of the airmail is likely to be carried between Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide? It seems to me that the airline system is being subsidised by the persons who pay for stamps. I do not think that situation can be justified. If there is any explanation of that situation I should like to hear it. The Post master-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  does not stand absolutely condemned until I have heard that case refuted arithmetically or otherwise. 
I think this example is systematic of the way in which we approach the Post Office. Many things are done which are not the real function of the Post Office. It is a distribution point in the community for income tax forms, social service forms and all sorts of things. Are we doing enough to balance the finance of the Post Office when it is being used as a piece of social enterprise rather than as a piece of commercial enterprise? The important function of the Post Office is communication between people. I believe it is a fundamental part of democratic society that we can communicate with one another quickly, efficiently and economically. I believe that the recent postal charges are imposing upon the community burdens which make it impossible for the Post Office to carry out this function. I believe that the interest burden makes it impossible for people to organise the Post Office effectively. A colleague of mine pointed out that innumerable services are growing up whereby people deliver letters more cheaply than the Post Office can. I suggest that there should be a new area of postal enterprise whereby if one takes  a  letter for local posting to the local post office it costs 2c, 3c or something of that nature. I represent a couple of suburban areas of Melbourne. In many instances I have to post 200 or 300 letters to the one area, perhaps the suburb of Brunswick or the suburb of Coburg. If I drop those letters in to the local letter box it seems to me that it is worth the Post Office considering a special rate for local postings delivered to the local post office. I am speaking here not so much of the household delivery service which the Post Office conducts but of the service whereby people can have things delivered specially. 
My arithmetic indicates that it does not cost  a  great deal for the individual postman to deliver the article as  a  delivery operation. I think this would be part of the social service to the community. I believe that there should be an examination of the control of the postal system. The PostmasterGeneral has held that position for  a  number of years. He sits at the peak of  a  pyramid which is a tremendous enterprise. I am not sure that this is the way Parliament should control the Post Office. My 
Party holds the view that there should be a board of control or something of that nature. It is my wish that it should be a parliamentary board rather than a single Minister. One of the deficiencies of the Australian society is that there is not enough political involvement in these matters. I am not speaking here of partisan politics in that sense. If we are going to conduct an operation of this size it needs more people representative of the general shareholding body. The community shareholding body is represented by this Parliament. As has been pointed out statistically BHP is about half the size of this institution. BHP has a board of directors numbering about a dozen. I believe that one of the weaknesses of our parliamentary system has developed through leaving so much of this control to a single Minister. There are matters which are beyond his control. This is no reflection upon the individual capacity of the Minister. In some way we have to get. around to the view that more political involvement is necessary and more parliamentary involvement is necessary. 

 I rose tonight to speak briefly about the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the legislation which will be passed here tonight to give it more finance to meet its expenses. 1 do not think we are doing justice to the ABC by tagging it at the end of the Postmaster-General's Department. I do not believe we are doing justice to the ABC by having it as a sideline for the Postmaster-General. The ABC is a very important functionary &gt;n the community. It has a number of things to do. One of the most important things is to preserve its independence. This is a very difficult thing to manage. It is a credit to all concerned - to the people who manage the ABC and to Parliament - that in general the ABC in both radio and television seems to preserve a fair amount of impartiality or independence. I think that one can measure impartiality in an institution such as the ABC by the fact thai both sides think it is biased at times. That is about the best that can be said for it. 1 have a great respect for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, particularly in its commentaries on day to day news. In the Australian community, because we have managed to hand over most of the communications in the rest of the radio and television system to people who also control the newspapers, it is vital that the ABC be expanded, developed and strengthened in every way possible. 1 can think of no reason why there should not be 2 such bodies. I can think of no reason why some of the State governments did not apply for television licences. I can think of no reason why the councils in some of the capital cities did not apply for television licences. I cannot understand why the local corporation in the towns of Townsville, Rockhampton, Ballarat and Bendigo did not do it. If only we could see a little more enterprise and dynamism in these matters from public authorities. 
The ABC has an important role to play as part of the cultural machinery of the nation. It is a line of entertainment for a large number of people in the community. It has information services to develop and it is part of the contribution to national unity. In o:her words, the community listens and hears national news disseminated with an instancy and immediacy that cannot be achieved by any other method. I believe it also has to supply local diversity and strength to the local communities because nobody else will. The inevitable trend inside communications is towards centralisation. This evening there seems to be a noticeable lack of attendance in the Press gallery. I did not know that the Press knew I was to speak. As I see it, one or two pressmen sit in the gallery and take notes and later the news services run it all off. There is a lack of diversity even in the reporting of this Parliament. As the whole system becomes centralised and the major networks get together there is a breakaway from the local communities. I believe this is a serious disability. 
I want to ask some questions that the Postmaster-General may be able to answer. We are now to raise the cost of television and radio licence fees because the Postmaster-General says that the cost of running the whole show has gone up. Personally I find the accounts rather vague. I find that the total receipts are $53m. I find that there is another $20m from other sources. The Postmaster-General says that the total is about $82m. I want to know whether everybody who is using the services of the broadcasting system is paying his fair share. The statistics show me that there are about 3± million homes in Australia. Statistics also show that about 24 million licences are taken out. It is a pretty fair guess that nearly every home in Australia has a wireless or television receiver or both. Is this a good way of collecting the money? My own inclination is to suggest that perhaps there should be space at the bottom of our income return form where a person can indicate whether he has a television licence and the amount can be added in the sum and acquitted to the Post Office. The Commissioner of Taxation might have something to say about that proposition. I believe that the whole trend should be towards simplicity. Most of us are honest when we are forced to put our signature down. My own inclination is that we should make sure that everybody who uses the service contributes in accordance with his use of it. The service is 2 things: It is a service to individuals but it is also a general national service in a sense in that it is supplying culture, entertainment and information throughout the community. Radio Australia, as the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  pointed out, should not be a just charge upon the communications system. Therefore I am not too happy about the continual raising of the licence fees. Are we sufficiently charging the companies who have the television licences? I am not confident that we are. When we conferred licences upon most of them, as somebody pointed out at the time, we conferred upon them almost a licence to print money. 
There are some other aspects of the ABC that I would like to see examined. It is a very large organisation which employs 5,700 people and has a budget of $53m rising to $70m or $80m. Do we give it enough resources? Are its budgeting arrangements adequate? Should it have a long term budgeting system? 
The honourable member for Grayndler, who is one of the most experienced and most informed members in this House, agrees with that proposition. In this Parliament we have never faced up to this about most matters. There is the odd organisation, perhaps an airline operator, which can set out and take on long term budgeting. Does the ABC own all the buildings it is occupying? A chance survey of the Melbourne situation shows that it does not. The ABC has a fairly archaic building on a corner in William Street. Down the road a bit it rents a large area of private property. It would seem to me that it is time a major building was put up in Melbourne somewhere as a headquarters for the ABC. There is the television complex down at Ripponlea but the area in William Street should be redeveloped, but the ABC will not be able to do that unless we are prepared to put the capital aside for it. I believe it is just as important to have good physical arrangements, working arrangements for the people, studios and all the other things as it is to have an airport at Tullamarine upon which we can lavish unlimited sums of money. 
I think that somehow we should strengthen the Commission. I am minded to say something about this with no criticism of the people who are on the Commission, only 2 of whom I know personally and only one of whom I know adequately by repute to be able to say that his scholarly background entitles him to a position on the Commission. Just recently - this is no reflection on the person involved - there was the announcement of the appointment of a new commissioner. I listened with interest. Although the name was familiar to me, the gentleman concerned was not. He is a member of the Country Party. It is possible for people in the Country Party to have intellectual and cultural interests of advantage to the nation, although there is not much demonstration of it here. I am just being an objective and impartial observer tonight. He is the shire president of a country town in Victoria. Generally speaking the State government in Victoria is pretty weak and local government is of no great renown. I made a rapid examination of those on the Commission. Most of the people on it have business interests of some sort. I have no doubt that they are estimable, capable and competent people, but I believe that the Australian Broadcasting Commission needs people of real public stature on its Board. T sit on the National Library Council. We have only to look at the names to see that the Government has picked out very powerful people of proven capacity and status in the community. The Parliament did the same. I think this is a subject we should examine. 
The Commission would be advantaged, as would the Australian National University Council and the National Library Council, if it had membership of this Parliament directly represented on it. This would take some of the sting out of the argument about which side the ABC is on when the current affairs debates come on. I believe this is one of the ways in which we should proceed to extend parliamentary involvement in these operations, because in my own experience the parliamentary member has a contribution to make. He has an attitude about things and lines of communication in the community which most other people lack. These are some of the issues I think Parliament should be considering at this stage. 
The ABC has a tremendous task before it. I believe we are keeping it continuously strangled by the inadequacy of its channels. We are taking up one channel with the broadcast of Parliament. A small percentage of the community listens consistently to Parliament, but the fact that we come on and go off the air at odd times and meet irregularly completely disorganises the programming of the ABC. I believe there should be at least a third channel and possibly 2 more channels throughout the community. There is just not enough freedom of choice in radio programmes of the type that the ABC presents. I believe it is important that we should have sufficient choice. 
I have on the notice paper Question No. 3910 which I hope the Postmaster-General will get around to answering. The ABC apparently leases from one of the television stations lines which belonged originally to the Post Office. I wonder how much we are being exploited in that regard. Is the ABC narrowing itself too much by centralising much of its programming out of Sydney? Could there be more decentralisation? Would this offer more chance for the development of local talent and local and diversified programmes? I believe it would. Finally, there is the vexed question of Australian programmes. The ABC is the best performer in this field but its record is still pretty meagure when one looks at it. 
Fifty two per cent is a reasonable amount in some ways. When will we get around to producing some of the programmes about Australia which are the logical extension of the very simple and, I always find, pleasant programmes such as 'Blue Hills', to which I rarely listen, or 'Bellbird', the television programme which I see on occasions? 
He would be the king of Australia if he were on deck now; but that was not an Australian programme. These are very important matters. What I want to see is a strengthening of the Commission. 
 I will be very brief. There are several points that the honourable member for La Trobe (Mi Jess) half made. I take one point. He certainly would not give anybody the plans for a toilet at Frankston. He would try to sell them at  a  profit. The facts in regard to our bases are these: I personally believe that the establishment of foreign bases on Australian soil is  a  piece of national treachery. Australians must retain absolute control of their own sou, their own rights and their own future. It seems to me the issue on foreign bases in this country is this: First of all we are placed under ransom by the foreign policy of a foreign country. The decision as to whether a base in this country will come under attack will be made by somebody else and it will be a decision over which we can have no control. The second point relates to this question of secrecy. While it might be all right to keep secret whether the Government intends to raise pensions it will not really matter to the community in the long run whether it knows. Of course people like to know. But on all these issues of foreign policy this Government is dealing in matters of life and death for perhaps the whole nation and therefore the whole nation must be taken into its confidence. 
Nobody is suggesting that we want to know some final details of scientific achievement which put us in front of everybody else. We want to know what we are committed to with Pine Gap and every other base. We want to know the final terms upon which these bases are permitted. We as members of this Parliament want to know every possible detail about them. 1 have sat in this Parliament while 3 Ministers have held the portfolio of Minister for Defence. They are the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  who is temporarily and currently the Minister for Defence. Each one of those honourable gentlemen in the portfolio as Minister for Defence has apparently had some mystic capacity to know these things and not betray the country. The right honourable member for Higgins a few months ago was entitled to know all these things. It was quite safe for him to know everything then, but now that he has been placed on the back bench that capacity has been lost and he is no longer to be trusted. It is all nonsense. 
The honourable member for La Trobe pays the people of Australia little compliment. He pays the members of this House little compliment. On this question of the United States alliance he brought out the old furphy that we cannot look after ourselves. I believe we have a greater capacity now to look after ourselves than has ever been developed or is ever likely to be needed. I have no faith whatsoever - and I say this as emphatically as anyone may like - in the constitutional processes of the American system. The United States alliance would not necessarily be of use to us when the chips are down. I believe this Government has placed us in a position where we are completely helpless as the creatures of someone else's foreign policy. This Government is not prepared to take the community into its confidence and it is denying its duty to the community. I said from the word go, before the North West Cape base was established, that I believe the establishment of foreign bases in this country and the alienation of our territory to another country is a piece of national treachery. And the honourable member for La Trobe is one of the guilty parties. 
Motion (by  Mr Scholes)  negatived: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many students in each school in the Electoral Division of Wills have (a) sat for Commonwealth secondary scholarship examinations and (b) been awarded scholarships in each year since the scheme was introduced. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many students from each secondary school in the Electoral Division of Wills have been awarded Commonwealth (a) university and (b) advanced education scholarships during each of the years 1968, 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Does it take unduly long time to obtain valuations on Government houses in Canberra; if so, why. 
Are there any criteria used in establishing the sale value of Government houses other than cost of house plus cost of land. 
If so, what is the justification for these criteria. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
What lines are leased permanently to television and radio stations for programme transmission between capital cities. 
What rates are payable by each lessee. 
Does the Australian Broadcasting Commission receive preferential rates in this system or does it hire line time from private lessees. 
If the Australian Broadcasting Commission hires time from private lessees what sums have been paid and to whom were they paid in each case in the last two years. 
What advantages accrue to the Australian Broadcasting Commission from the transmission of radio programmes from Sydney rather than by local production. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  concluded his speech by using some mighty words, if I may say so. I happen to sit on the Opposition side of the House. As such I am the recipient of the tender courtesies of honourable members opposite when it comes to treating the Parliament as a debating institution. There are two honourable members with whom I wish to take issue briefly. I shall have to do so briefly because I am allowed only 10 minutes in which to speak. I wish to say to those honourable members on both sides of the chamber who reduced the time of speeches in this chamber that I think they have done the whole institution a disservice. But I shall have to leave that subject because I can speak only in a kind of shorthand this evening. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  made a telling denunciation of this institution and its membership. He said, I think, that the debates were inane, that the procedures followed were time wasting and that honourable members used the procedures of the House in an irresponsible fashion. I could perhaps explain exactly why some of these procedures are used. But I am not too sure that there is a great amount of personal abuse in this chamber. Is there that much personal abuse in the sense in which one normally uses the expression? 
1 may denunciate the arguments put forward by the honourable member for North Sydney, but I still think he is not a bad sort of bloke. What I say has nothing to do with his personal qualities, which are estimable; it has only to do with his politics, which are terrible. I do not think I have done the Parliament a disservice by saying that. Most of the honourable members who participate in debates in this chamber are, in general, speaking on subjects which are not breathtaking in their excitement, but a good deal of preparation goes into their speeches. It is my personal view that, no matter how dull they are, they have a right to have their speeches heard. 
I see that I have only 8 minutes left in which to speak. I would have much more faith in the concern of the honourable member for Bradfield and the honourable member for Isaacs for the Parliament as an institution if they were to just once vote against the gag. This afternoon I rose in this chamber to speak for perhaps 3 minutes about the Inter-Parliamentary Union. On the blue business paper it said that a debate might proceed on a report presented by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on this subject. As a delegate on 2 occasions to conferences of that body I thought I could add something to the way in which the House treated the report. The gag was moved on me and every honourable member opposite, without exception, followed in a robot like fashion the dictates of their master. Where is the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  this evening? It is his duty to be present in this chamber when the estimates of the Parliament are being discussed. That is all the time I have to spend on him. We have come to the stage where the Senate is the Parliament of this country. 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise now the Acting Leader of the House? 
I have the greatest respect for the' Minister for Customs and Excise, who has some good parliamentary habits. But the man to whom we have to look for the duration of the debates on the matters listed on the notice paper, the man who exercises the authority on the business of the House, is the honourable member for Darling Downs, who is also the Minister for National Development. I think he is about the only immoveable feast on the other side of the chamber. He ought to be present at this stage. I do not care what else he is doing. The other Ministers ought to be present as well. The Public Service and the Press seem to have become the government. The House of Representatives has become almost redundant in the present situation; and' I say that with deep regret. 
How helpless are we? Honourable members should for a moment take a look at the Standing Orders to see how they can convene this Parliament once it has gone into recess. It can be convened only at the call of the  Speaker.  If the Government decides that the  Speaker  ought not to call it the rest of us - the 123 of us - could not convene this House. We are continuously on the edge of dictatorship. I am not saying that a dictatorship exists, but the parliamentary system relies for its protection on the continuous extension of courtesies between the Government and the Opposition and the acceptance of the view that the other fellow's voice has a right to be heard. No matter how dull he may be and no matter how wrong he may be he has a duty to speak and a right to be heard. 
It seems to me that this institution has 4 functions. There is the representative function, the executive function, the legislative function and the function which might be described as the scrutiny and surveillance of public activities in the general community. 1 do not believe it is possible to do any of those things effectively at the present moment. Certainly we have very little, if any, say at all in the executive functions of the nation. That has been pre-empted by the members of the Ministry. The rest of us may as well not be here for all of these purposes. Some 30 of the members of this Parliament have this God-given right. They have preempted it to themselves. The other 150 or so in this Parliament have no say at all in the executive direction of the nation. I do not blame the present- Ministry for what has happened, but I do believe that the parliamentary institution has reached the stage where it must change its style. Some honourable members opposite will agree with me on that aspect. I know that if we could get down to having some sort of a round table meeting we would come to some kind of agreement about this matter. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  made some very concrete suggestions about the legislative function of the Parliament. The representative function, which concerns us all, is I think the reason why we must protect the right to hear what the citizenry has to say, to speak about it in this chamber and to place it before the appropriate authorities. This works all right in some ways. We can take up the complaints of pensioners who come to us and assist them. But the rest of the members of the community feel as helpless as we do on the great issues that are of concern to them. Four Or five years ago we passed a referendum about Aborigines. 
We may as well have done nothing about this matter because we still use the State functions to deal with them. Ninety per cent of the people of Australia said: 'Get on with the job'. Even with that powerful and overwhelming voice it has been impossible to get action taken in the direction in which so many of us reckon it ought to be taken. On the other hand, I think we have a fair number of facilities at our disposal to deal with the question of scrutiny. 
There are a number of other things 1 wanted to say, but I have only 2 or 3 minutes left in which to say them. What I think I should do is take my time now and at some time in the near future go to Toowoomba, which is the homestead of the Leader of the House, which is a little more devoted to these matters on most occasions, and tell his community what he is doing to this Parliament. 
I believe that this chamber is a committee of wasted talent. There are 125 of us. Over 50 of us have university qualifications of some sort. About 30 of us have had extensive trade union experience. Over 50 of us have had fairly effective military service. I have in front of me a little chart which was prepared by the Parliamentary Library for the Parliamentary Handbook. It lists 5 doctorates of philosophy, 21 bachelors of arts and a number of bachelors of surgery. In fact, we seem to be overrun by the medical profession. However, it will be some time before the medical profession catches up with the bachelors of law. Would it be impossible to employ that talent in some executive function directly connected with the community? I represent this Parliament on the Council of the National Library of Australia. I suppose it gives me 12i per cent of the executive direction of that very fine institution. It is the only way in which my talents, what there are of them, are employed in the executive direction of the nation on behalf of the people I represent. I hold the view that the people in the electorate of Wills have the right to some say in the executive direction of the nation in the same way as the people in the electorate of Lowe have through their representative. I would think that a lot more members could be placed in similar positions on other statutory corporations to that which I hold on the Council of the National Library. 
I cannot say any more at this moment except that the best demonstration of the ineffectiveness of this Parliament is the appointment in the other place of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. One has only to read its charter and compare it with the charter of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is a ministerial study circle. The problem we have is that Ministers - I do not blame only this generation of Ministers - are completely possessive and are carrying on the ancient mythology of the feudal system that the government is something different from the parliament. In my view the parliament of Australia is the government of Australia. This total body is the executive instrument of the nation and what we have to do to resolve some of the problems of the community is find the machinery by which we can all have some say somewhere along the line in the executive direction of the legislative programme of the Parliament, while still paying a good deal of respect to the fact that the majority will should prevail. I am not quite confident of what the real answer is but I know that the present isolation of the executive direction of this nation inside the one-man ministerial system is totally inadequate and that reliance Upon the system to produce legislation has become irrelevant. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 agree with some of the sentiments that my friend the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  has just uttered. However, I do not think that we on this side of the House, who may well claim to have initiated or at least captured at the parliamentary level the idea that the Commonwealth ought to participate more fully in education, meant that the Commonwealth would take over anything in the sense of taking over the total operation. I am not saying that I do not believe a Commonwealth department could run a school, no matter how far it is from Canberra, as well as some of the people who run that type of school now; but there has to be acceptance of a national attitude if we are to iron out problems in areas of deficiency for some Australians. 
We have discussed here and in the public forum at great length the inequalities of education. The facts are that there are great areas of inequality, some of which could be ironed out by this Government by direction from Canberra. I think it is essential that a Commonwealth government, acting for Australians as a whole, set out to achieve that purpose. In other words, in the remotest area of Queensland a person should receive what might be called equal effort in his education. We are not trying to turn out equal people. Whoever has thought that we could all be equal? I suppose that we are all equal in humanity and have a right to equal access to the good things of life in the community, but the objective ought to be an equality of effort for people in the most remote parts or in the most congested industrial areas, as we do in Canberra. 
Many things are wrong with Australian education. I suppose it is heartening that there is increasing research in the field of education. The honourable member for Denison referred to equality but we do not know what equality is. We are not claiming that everybody has to be turned out equal. We want equal effort put into everybody's education. As to the question of priorities in the field of education, it is true that many State governments have odd priorities for assistance. For instance, in Victoria  Sir Henry  Bolte and his team have the most quaint priorities. They spent $35m on building a freeway from the city of Melbourne to the Tullamarine airport. My heart bleeds for people who have to catch aeroplanes at Tullamarine. I suppose it is essential that they be able to drive to the airport at 60 miles an hour instead of 35 miles an hour. At the time the freeway was opened I pointed out that the sum of $35m spent on its construction would have rebuilt every State school in my electorate to the standard of the Canberra schools and left a balance of $13m or $14m. I believe that that is a haywire system of priorities. There is a possibility of readjustment inside the State system but finally the emphasis and initiative for any sort of equalisation, better classrooms, improved teachers and so on will come from Canberra because there is a lack of initiative at the State level, and the resources of the States have been absorbed somewhere else. 1 really rose tonight to challenge what might be called the Fraser thesis on the teacher-pupil ratio. I do not agree with what the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had to say the other night. It is true that he cited several instances of research that have been carried out, and which reported that one could not show that because a teacher-pupil ratio is smaller there is a higher level of attainment. I would like to get hold of the evidence, see its basis and study it very closely. A good start might be made at the bottom by defining attainment. What do we mean by attainment? I am prepared to admit that in teaching arithmetic - that 7 multiplied by 8 equals 56 - in some classrooms 100 pupils may be taught as effectively as 50, or 50 pupils as effectively as 25. Of course, that is not what is happening in the classroom anymore. The Minister has overlooked or is unaware of what goes on in the classroom these days. By some miracle there is a change in some parts of the Australian education system. By some miracle it is happening principally in Victoria as far as I can tell. There is a new relationship developing in the classroom. The classroom now is not where one would see the old method of teaching by rote which occurred through most of the education system, particularly in primary schools. 
What occurs in the classroom today? First of all, there is an interaction between the teacher and the pupil. This cannot be measured by any system of attainment of which I am aware. There is also an increasing interaction between pupil and pupil. The classroom situation is now one of interaction, not one of straight teaching. Therefore, research projects should not ignore the classroom as a social unit and regard it just as a teaching institution or a means of getting information from out of the air or out of someone's mind and planting it in someone else's mind so that it can be reproduced in an examination paper. Anybody who thinks of the classroom in that form is living in the past. I have no doubt that the Minister is a product of a system which was pretty well endowed in terms of the teacher-pupil ratio and all the other benefits that accompany it. I do not begrudge him that. I would like to see the same thing apply in the rest of Australia. If we look at his politics he is one of the system's most disastrous failures. There is no doubt that his parents sent him to such a school because of the advantages that it conferred upon him. 
I hope that honourable members who are concerned with education will take a closer look at what is going on inside the classroom and what it is all about. Listening to this debate and debates of this kind in recent times one would have thought that all that education in Australia was about was state aid. We seem to overlook the demands and needs of the great proportion of children who go to the state schools in Australia. But the issue as far as education is concerned is what will happen in the classroom, what kind of teacher will the pupils have, and what kind of relationship will the teacher and pupils have? I have jotted down 4 headings to cover the differences between the activities of the classroom 30 or 40 years ago and what is developing now, at least in some classrooms in Australia. First of all, the schools which I attended were run in an atmosphere of authority. We moved into the classroom, sat down in a row and did as we were told. At least that is what people such as I did. What is the difference now? A co-operative spirit has developed in the classroom. We have change from authority to co-operation But it has not happened everywhere. I can take honourable members to schools in my electorate where it has happened and to schools where it has not happened. This is where the new society will develop, inside the classroom. 
There has been a change from verbal teaching, such as I am trying to practice with honourable members opposite at the moment, to research and discussion, and this will happen even more when libraries are developed to meet the needs of the schools and the pupils indluge more in this activity. This means there is a different relationship inside the classroom and a different ratio between pupil and teacher. In the old school there was silence. One could tell the busy schools because when one walked around the corridors they were as silent as the grave. Everybody had his head down and was working hard. What is happening now? We have a classroom in which there is movement and interaction between the pupils. It has become a social unit. Instead of just teaching, we are searching for something which we might call education. So I challenge the Minister's thesis, with the humility of a backbench member of the Opposition in the face of the great phalanx of research officers and others who helped him to produce his speech. I will take a lot of convincing, as will most people associated with education, that the teacher-pupil ratio is not an important factor in the education system. 
I represent an industrial area of Melbourne. I have said before, and I will put on record again, that back in 1938 I was at the Melbourne Teachers College and visited some of the schools in Brunswick where trainees did their teaching rounds, as it was known. 1 would say that almost all children in Brunswick is now less well served in education than they were in 1938. In 1938 every building was 30 years newer, every teacher taking the classes was trained and most of the classes were smaller. Probably the only enterprise in this country which has large areas that are in fact worse off than they were 30 or 40 years ago is education. Transport is better than it used to be. Health services are better than they used to be. Public communications are better than they used to be. But in large areas of education in Australia children are now less well served than they were 30 or 40 years ago. That is a real challenge to this Parliament and to the Australian community. 
I address my question to the Minister for the Navy. In what way is the presence of Russian ships in the Indian Ocean a threat to Australia? On what occasions has the Soviet Union evinced hostility to Australia of such a nature as to threaten us with aggression? Is it not a fact that in both World War I and World War II the Russians were on our side in a very powerful form at a time when their friendship was needed, and ought not we set out to generate friendship with the Russians rather than provoke their hostility? 
-- Perhaps it is the fact that they are refloating the 'Cerberus' that has aroused his feelings on the matter. 
 I have no doubt that the speech made by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  will look very well in the Townsville 'Daily Bulletin', but what does it mean? What on earth does he mean? He spoke in a revolutionary and ardent way about the protection of the country against the destruction of the environment, but he supports a government which will hand over any of the more desirable spots in Australia to anybody who has a bulldozer and a cheque book. We have listened to this kind of thing week after week. 
The honourable member has never done anything effective in this Parliament about such instances. He is simply using the Parliament as a talking shop so that he can be reported in his local paper. The same statement applies in respect of nearly every other social issue that faces this country. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  was telling us about the Aboriginal situation. The Aboriginal situation in Australia is a disgrace to all of us. The honourable member for Herbert said: 'What is money?' One would think that it was something that the astronauts had to bring back with moon rocks, judging by the way in which it is used for social enterprises by this Government. Nearly 4i years ago the people of Australia said emphatically that the constitutional authority for the advancement of the Aboriginal people should lie squarely on this Parliament. What has happened about that? It is true that for some time there has been a Minister controlling Aboriginal affairs. There has been a change of Ministers. I regard both as sympathetic men, but sympathy is not enough. Action is needed. The action that is needed is of the kind that, when the Minister wants to do something in this Parliament or in the Party room, will ensure that he is supported by people such as the honourable member for Herbert. What happened to break the heart - what there is of it - of the former Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, the present Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)?  Obviously the conservativism of his Party room, the dead weight of the Country Party plus the State rights principle broke his heart. We have to surrender the State rights principle. The responsibility lies squarely on the Commonwealth. 
For many years I have been campaigning for something to be done administratively or in a ministerial fashion, such as is done with repatriation. Speaking in terms of time, I suppose the most experienced part of our social service system is the Department of Repatriation. Its experience is not only in length of time but in the universality of its coverage. . I believe that we will not get anywhere until the Commonwealth does something like this as far as the Aborigines are concerned. I know that honourable members opposite and many people in the community say that that would be creating another great Commonwealth department. The Commonwealth Department of Repatriation is not exactly like that. There are some things that it does directly. It runs its own hospitals in many parts of Australia. In other parts of Australia it uses local resources. Its soldier children education scheme uses the State education systems to carry out the responsibility that it has. The Department has training systems and so on. So I believe that nothing effective will be done for the Aboriginal people en masse until we accept that responsibility, and we have to accept it. 
If there is a fundamental feature of Australian life it is that any Australian is entitled to all the good things and benefits that flow from being Australian, as indeed there are many, much as at times we regret there are not more. The Queensland State Government has no solution to the problem. It would not matter much what kind of government it was. I represent an industrial area of Melbourne. The people of Victoria have very few Aborigines as part of their national responsibility, but the actual financial and social responsibility lies as squarely upon the people of Coburg, whom I represent, as it does upon the people of Cloncurry whom the honourable member for Kennedy misrepresents. 
Therefore I believe the Government must accept this responsibility. It has to be equalised in this way. One of the disappointing features is that the Commonwealth Government will not answer questions. There is one question from the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  that has been on the notice paper since 30th October last year. Some of the questions are simple enough. One would think they would be simple enough even for honourable members opposite to be able to work out. Let me give some examples: What sums were provided in the Budgets? How many houses were constructed? How many Aborigines and Islanders live in substandard dwellings? We know that that information is difficult to acquire, but we cannot do anything until we get it. 
I am one of those who believe that housing is one of the fundamental solutions to the problem of Aborigines who live on the edges of most Australian towns and cities. The Government ought to be carrying out one of the suggestions made by the Opposition 7 or 8 years ago for the specific purpose of the people at Yirrkala, that there should be a standing committee of this Parliament to keep the situation under review. The recommendation was a rather specialised one. It was never implemented even though the Minister who eventually became responsible, the present Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  sighed the report. There is something wrong with our parliamentary system when we have no faith in the members of Parliament at all and when their resources, their intellectual capacity and their right to move around the country freely are not exploited to the full. 
The honourable member for Herbert, much as I regret his inaction in some ways, is a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation to which he referred. I am sure that evidence adduced before the Committee has produced a rolling strike in the community's consciousness. But that is what we have to do. During the year I visited 2 places in Queensland which still depress me. The first one was Palm Island. Palm Island is a delightful spot. It has 15,000 acres. It has mountains, beaches and jungle. It has everything except the wit and the will on the part of the Government authorities to make it the kind of paradise it ought to be. It is isolated from the rest of the community by the lack of transport. What has been done with Dunk Island, Hayman Island and the rest of them? They have been turned into island paradises. But what do we do with Palm Island? We have isolated a community there and have done little enough for it. I do not know whether the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  has visited the place but he ought to take his conscience there and have a look. 
The Minister for the Navy says that he has, but he has been as silent as the grave about it in this place. As to the honourable member for Herbert, I think that Palm Island is in his electorate. Fancy having that representing you. The first sight of Palm Island is depressing. I do not care what anyone says; it is not good enough for Australians. The Government has supplied the Islanders with a better than average school and with perhaps better than average equipment, but I am confident that the intellectual endeavour and drive that ought to be behind, the education of people such as these is missing because the teachers have not received adequate training. I know from a glance at the place that the nutrition of the children seems to be inadequate. I know by looking at the place that the planning is inadequate. I know just from a simple knowledge of the facts that the civil rights of the people are not exactly non-existent but pretty close to it. 
Can we not do something for a community such as that? Can the honourable member for Herbert who represents the place not use some of the vigour that he demonstrated verbally here tonight to try to engender some action from the Government? The Premier of Queensland, that notable, militant social democrat, felt that Opposition members were being very remiss and irresponsible when we went up there and talked about it. But I have been doing it for years. It takes a long while to get through to honourable members opposite. They are the greatest bunch of slow learners this side of the black stump. Then I visited another area of north Queensland out Cloncurry way, which I understand is the home of the honourable member for Kennedy. Honourable members may be surprised to know that he seems to be held in high regard in that town. But the facts are that there is a depressing Aboriginal reserve there. As far as I can recall the honourable member has never referred to it in this House. 
Some factors we should not tolerate any longer. The Queensland Act must not be allowed to continue. Money is being taken from thousands of people in Queensland and paid into trust funds. They have to plead to get it back. I ask the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who is at the table, to take the bit between his teeth in these matters and challenge the State authorities on them. I am quite convinced that he will have the full support of this Parliament. Some honourable members opposite hold tender attitudes towards State rights, but a responsibility lies with us. I am quite confident that nothing will happen until this Parliament accepts the challenge. Action is necessary to raise the morale of the Aboriginal people. In the field of health, for instance, as I understand it, the highest infant mortality rate in the world is found amongst Aborigines in some areas of the Northern Territory, and the number of Aborigines attending university is extremely low. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Corio moving forthwith the motion relating to aid for Pakistani refugees of which he gave notice on 12th October 1971. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, the real issues are the fate of the people of Pakistan in India, amounting to one-sixth of the world's population - the threat of war, the threat of starvation, the epidemic proportions of all the diseases there and the sheer misery of the situation. But the issue at this moment is the capacity of this House to discuss the matter. Therefore I believe it is necessary, in the light of everything that has gone on in the community - in the light of public demand and the way we ought to operate; - that the Standing Orders be suspended. I know that a lot of traditions, precedents and procedures prevent us from effectively doing anything as a House of Parliament in this instance. First of all the Constitution imposes limits upon what the House can do. It can consent to do something with money only on the initiative of the Crown. 
Then there are the Standing Orders themselves which on this occasion prevent iw from discussing the matter. The Standing Orders allow the Ministers to propose the order of business. Ordinarily and traditionally the Ministers have that right. How this House functions is traditionally - and, I think, as custom has developed, reasonably so - the business of the Government. Then there are our own traditions which mean that the Parliament very rarely takes the initiative in such a matter. But I believe that we are in a special international and public situation and that the Parliament has to confront the issue in the same way as the rest of the community does. When my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  raised this matter a couple of weeks ago the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  said that there was no need to suspend the Standing Orders in the way in which the honourable member wished to do because the matter would be brought on in the ordinary course of events. 
All of us know that, with the best will in the world, that will not happen. The Government is committed to its procedures and has its business to do. One has only to look at the notice paper and see that the first notice under general business was given by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  on the last sitting day and that the notice given by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  was placed on the notice paper on 8th May 1970. In the ordinary course of business there will be no possibility of my colleague, the honourable member for Corio, speaking to the House on this matter, let alone having a discussion on it. Therefore, unless it is brought up now there is no chance of its being brought up. 
I agree that we should accept the Government's right to adjust the business of the House and we have always done so. Standing Orders 101 and 105 give the Government this power. Section 56 of the Constitution lays down exactly the procedures by which funds shall be allotted for any purpose. Yet in the general tradition of the Parliament and the system that has been developed over the last 3 centuries the Ministers in the Cabinet decide what can be done. I do not think that we can withdraw our own responsibility in this issue. The 173 members of this Parliament who are not members of the Cabinet cannot leave it all to the Cabinet to decide. I believed that it is essential that it ought to be assisted in the task. I say that consciously. The Government has brought down its Budget. The allocation of funds had been worked out over months. As a member of the National Library Council, I know how carefully the budgeting is geared to the system of governmental needs. Therefore, when we are required to do something extra with finances it is necessary for the Parliament to express its will in an emphatic way. This is an unprecedented situation. The public response on this issue is greater than on any other issue that T ran  tpc*  in so on - with  a  great deal of spontaneity from the community. What people say about Australian democracy is on public record. Donald Home had this to say: 
It ls hard to escape the conclusion that is Australia parliaments are now mainly of ritualistic significance and the significance of the peculiarly parliamentary part of Australian democracy is quite slight. 
I do not agree with him, but publicly that is the way that we are spoken about. In Don Whitington's book 'Inside Canberra' this passage occurs: 
Freedom in Australia Is not dead, but it is in  a  deep coma, sedated by apathy, affluence and middle-class mediocrity. 
The rise in public concern, and in many respects, dismay on this issue is unprecedented. Usually we get very few letters from our constituents about public matters. We get them about telephones for themselves or about pensions if they are pensioners and sometimes on a general issue of that sort, but in most instances all of us would say that nearly all of the representations that are made to us are on matters concerning people themselves. There are very few letters, very few callers and very few public manifestations of concern about wider issues, but on this issue Australians have decided to stand up and think for people other than themselves, and I believe that that is our task, too. 
I believe that the parliamentary task is one of representation. What does 'representation' mean? It means: 'Holding the place of, and acting for, a larger body of persons in the work of governing or legislating; pertaining to, or based upon, a system by which the people is thus represented'; and on this issue I believe we have to speak as representatives in the strict sense of the word because one of the democratic dilemmas is to get governments to respond. It is not just a part of the Australian pattern of life; it is part of the democratic pattern throughout the world. Occasionally we can stop governments doing things. Occasionally there are furores and manifestations of public concern to stop governments acting. Unions can strike, but JUs- very difficult to make governments act my public life. There has been an unprecedented number of petitions. In this instance most of them come - although they have been developed by organisations and because the administrative system has taken over and is rolling on. We still have not resolved the question: How do you unlock the administrative processes and make governments respond? I believe that parliament has to do that. Our duties as members of this place transcend our duties as members for a certain area; they transcend the ordinary needs of the parliament itself and they transcend parties. 
I did not discuss this with my colleagues on the front bench. I did not take the members of the front bench - my Leader and my  deputy  leader - into my confidence, and insofar as it has been traditional to do this in a situation such as this I offer them my apologies. But I stand here and speak as a representative as such, not representing any particular party or person in this instance and not particularly representing the electorate of Wills but, I hope, responding to all those people - the countless thousands in this country - who have demanded that we do something. We have to find some machinery for responding to the expressed wishes and needs of the community. So all this has to transcend the sovereignty inside Pakistan and India, the Standing Orders themselves, the Constitution, and all the precedents that we have always accepted. It has to transcend parties. 
Therefore I believe it is important that this afternoon my colleague from Corio be given the opportunity to move his motion so that honourable members on both sides will be able to express their concern in such a way that - faced as it is with plenty of problems inside the nation such as pensioners who want more and schools that are in short supply - the Government and this Parliament itself can express themselves in such an emphatic way that whatever steps the Government takes financially the community will know that on this issue at least it has the Parliament on its side. I believe it is also an important issue that we face the question of what the Parliament is. I believe that the Parliament and not the Cabinet is the Government of Australia and that Australians govern themselves through this Parliament. It is with an opportunity such as this issue, which I believe has very little partisan political point about it at all on which none of us are concerned with lambasting the other side, that we should govern ourselves by this Parliament offering the opportunity to the membership to say emphatically that something must be done about Pakistan. Therefore we should suspend the Standing Orders, forget about the ordinary procedures and think of the suffering humanity and all its misery which we can, perhaps ameliorate by some governmental action in this situation. 
I thought that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  ended up on an odd note. One of the great problems of education in Papua New Guinea is simply to get education to the people. What the honourable member wants - I think that I am right in my interpretation of what he had to say - is to ensure that the people of Papua New Guinea have a freedom of choice, that is, that they can send their children either to a State school or to a non-State school. 
That is fair enough. But what we are pointing out is that we have not extended education opportunities throughout the whole of Papua New Guinea. Now, the honourable member apparently wishes to create  2  systems, neither of which would be effective. 
I will debate it with the honourable member some time in Brisbane. Personally,  1  thought that the achievement of uniformity, if we can call it that, between the  2  systems in Papua New Guinea was an achievement of some magnitude and that the living together of church schools and Administration schools or State schools - call them what we will - was an achievement of great social importance. Surely it is possible inside an education system to preserve these values which the honourable member for Griffith apparently treasures so much as, I suppose, we all do. But the important thing about education in Papua New Guinea is that there are so many people who still are getting none at all. 
What I wish to say first of all is that I hope that all Australians are starting to realise how important is our work in Papua New Guinea. We are developing a nation which geographically, I think, is spread over at least twice the area of New Zealand and which has a population probably a fraction larger than that of New Zealand. So, we are creating in Papua New Guinea, if this is the term which we should apply to this social and political exercise in which we are engaged, a nation of some international significance. It is important that in all our relations with Papua New Guinea we realise that this is the case, and that every step that we take which produces negative results can be fraught with danger and difficulty for the future. If any step produces positive results in our relations with the people of Papua New Guinea, no matter what is its cost it is well worth while. 
I believe we have still to surrender a lot of the paternalism with which we treat this country. As an example, take our relationship with the House of Assembly. The House of Assembly is the Parliament of Papua New Guinea. It ought to be at least as significant as any State parliament in this country. In fact, it is as significant as the Parliament of New Zealand with which I have drawn comparison already. As I understand it - and the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  will correct me if I am wrong - earlier in the year a resolution was passed by the House of Assembly in Papua New Guinea asking for a committee of this Parliament to visit Papua, I think it was, to have discussions on the grounds - let me put it that way - of some of the problems associated with it. This was, as I understand it, a resolution of the Parliament itself. That was not asking much. 
The House of Assembly asked that we should by acceding to this kind of request acknowledge it as an equal partner in the area. Their Parliament and our Parliament should treat one another in this way. As I understand it, the Minister did not see eye to eye with the House of Assembly. The result was that some members from that House came here and visited the Minister. I have a great respect for the Minister - not as a Minister but because of the sort of man that he is. But I have no respect for his judgment in this matter. Those members came here last week. We were not paid the courtesy of being invited to meet them. I believe that we must start to treat these people as equal partners in this area. They have embarked on an enterprise of great significance to the security of the whole area. That is my first point. 
My next point is this: What are our relations to be with Papua New Guinea? Are we to continue to treat the people of 
Papua New Guinea as a race apart. I know it is fraught with all sorts of problems for the Australian community. It happens that they have one distinct difference from us: They are black - most of them. As my friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  pointed out, unless a person is jet black some people would regard him as not being black but a redskin. They can have the same sort of attitudes as we do. Now, what are we going to do about their right to travel to and from Australia? Earlier this year I came back to this country and the only person picked out of the airplane load of people to be examined thoroughly by officers of the Department of Customs and Excise and Immigration in Brisbane was a little girl from Papua. Why was she picked? Well, she was black. We cannot carry on like that. 
How will we treat the members of the House of Assembly? The only difference between them and us is perhaps in the colour of their skin. I know that this is a great problem as far as many Australians are concerned, though no Australian ever admits to being racist. I do not think Australians are racist, but they are frightened their next door neighbours might be. It does not matter much in the long term perhaps how we treat the people from Central Africa, or from Mongolia or from India; they are thousands of miles away But these are our next door neighbours and we have to find some greater rapport with them as regards the right to travel to and from. We might have simple relationships where they pass resolutions about what their people can do and we pass equivalent resolutions stating that no Australians can go and live there freely but they can visit fairly freely. If we can do that so should they be able to do it. In the long run we will not be able to treat the people of Papua New Guinea differently from the people of New Zealand. I hope we will not find the solution to our problem as the British did when they clamped down on everybody. 
It is not too early to start thinking about it and talking to the people up there because it will have to be a communion of spirits that finds a solution. I do not believe that countless thousands of them will want to get up and come and live in 
Australia but I do think that they ought to be able to come and go as freely as anybody else. It is time we started to resolve this question. I do not know what the answer is. I do know that I feel offended on their behalf when they find that they are unable to travel to this country as freely as they should. This applies particularly to all those thousands whose education and so on has committed them to the same life style as ours. 
On the other side, we have to think about what our trade relations will be. Are we going to isolate them more than we isolate some other countries? What are the fields of co-operation in this area? There are another 24 to 3 million people scattered throughout the islands. I think one of the lessons of recent times is the growing importance of our island neighbours. The people of Papua New Guinea, the British Solomons, Tonga and all the rest - all the people associated with the South Pacific Commission, for instance - are people with whom we have to find a new relationship. We are vitally important to these people as, indeed, I think they are important to us. There are not so many of them. While there are 2 million people in Papua New Guinea the population in other places is relatively small - 100,000 here, 20,000 somewhere else. We ought to concentrate all our expertise, diplomacy, social endeavour and so on in finding some way of living side by side with these people and getting complete rapport with them. I put it to the Minister that only by the employment of all the skills, resources and personnel of this House will we do it. That is why I am disappointed that our relationship as a Parliament with the Parliament of Papua New Guinea has been so peripheral. We are allowed to go there. We can go up there once a year now - an act of great grace. It costs one a fortune to stay in the hotels and so on, of course, but I think it is important that this Parliament itself - I have been saying this for years as have my colleagues on this side and others - that we should get closer to them. 
As we have all pointed out, there is of course a certain nonsense about the debate on the Estimates. We have 10 minutes to cover these great areas. That is not the fault of us all but the fault of those who voted for restrictions in speaking time. What are some of the things we ought to do? First of all, we ought to get rid of any suggestions of racism in our administration up there. There is racism in the administration of housing. Honourable members can describe it how they like, but that is how it looks to the customer. There is racism in the payment of wages and in other areas. We should be saying: 'What can we do for you? What would you like?' For instance, would it be worth while putting a satellite in orbit above the Territory for communications purposes because communications are vital to the Territory. I understand that this might cost $20m but it would solve- 
I thought it had seeped through even on your side of the House that this is the way it is done round the world. The same applies in relation to roads and television for educational purposes. Of course, there is a feeling abroad that the provision of television is very expensive. But, by the expenditure of $250,000 we could probably put it into places such as Rabaul and the Highlands, where there are quite large populations, for educational purposes. I wish the Parliament could get around to examining these matters more closely. Surely we do not intend to leave all these questions of real difficulty and requiring proper examination to the Senate. It is time that we ourselves did something. We could do something about the exploitation of the people of Papua New Guinea by the Australian airlines. The Australian airlines charge nearly twice as much in Papua New Guinea as they do here. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In making  a decision about the pittance of aid to the people of India and Pakistan, was the decision based upon the needs of the people, as the Government understood them, upon the wealth of Australia, as we know it, or upon what would keep the people of Australia quiet in this situation? 
I take it that this motion has to do with some event that occurs next Tuesday. A few days ago the House did not have half an hour to spare to discuss the question of refugees in Pakistan. The House never has sufficient time. On Tuesday millions will be gambled on a horse race, yet Australia can find only a handful of millions for people who are suffering. 
I went home for domestic reasons. I have left this House on very few occasions. It is only in the case of pressing emergencies that I do so. I do not really mind this place not working for half an hour on such an occasion or at any other time we feel it is desirable. But it sems to me to be an astonishing set of priorities. I just put on the record my disapproval of the fact that the country that can find so little for so much misery can find the time to do this. I hope that the Parliament will take a sharp look at its conscience before it starts tinkering with its procedures for an operation such ; as this. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I do not quite know what the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  was trying to say, and I wish that he would stand up and throw his voice across the chamber. But I think what he was pointing out was that it is time that we had a real inquiry into the subject of migration. All he was trying to do was to confuse issues by quoting statements by people who have points of view on the subject which they are entitled to put and which I believe they ought to put. I represent what is probably the largest concentration of migrants in Australia, and nobody can blame them for that. They want to be decently represented in the Commonwealth Parliament, so they come and live in the electorate of Wills. 
I put these points to .the Committee: First of all, there is this question of the social pressures that are created by migration. At the time of the previous census, which was 5 years ago - we have not got the figures for the 1971 census yet - there were some 16,000 or 17,000 people of Italian birth in Brunswick and Coburg. That represents one in 17 of all Italians in Australia. Also in my electorate there are one in every 20 of the Greeks in Australia, one in every 20 of the Maltese in Australia, and so on. As far as I can tell, despite the great pressures on the community, there has been no substantial social discord or dissent created by these people. Even those people with whom we have very little affinity, the Turks, have created no social dissatisfaction. They are just concerned that they are not getting much of a go. So the first thing I want to do is to compliment not so much the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  or his Department, but all the Australian community for the way in which it has taken these people to its bosom, accepted them and. tried to give them a hospitable welcome in this country. It- is time that this fact was appreciated. 
But what this has done firstly, if to place an extraordinary pressure upon the schools in the community. I support what my friend the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said on this matter. I do not think that what we have done so far in the field of migrant education is anywhere near enough or has had real impact on the situation. I say that as one who is concerned with education, who is associated with the local schools in my electorate and who knows something of the subject, because each recess of Parliament - whether it is for a week . or longer - I visit as many of the school: as possible and speak to the people who are involved with migrants. 
The other point is that questions are being raised as to whether migration is causing inflation or unemployment or overfull employment. I am sure that none of us knows the answer to that question. The answer will be found only by an appropriate inquiry. In my own mind I have the feeling that if we suddenly reduce the intake of migrants we might create unemployment; that in fact the pressures (hat immigration creates might well be some of those that have created full employment. But I do not know. I have no dogmatic viewpoint on it. The other matter that has been raised continuously is this question of people who do not happen to be born with the same coloured skin as ourselves. As I see the Australian migration system, it has a very fine filter. One does not get into Australia unless one has been through the system and has been thoroughly examined somewhere along the line. I do not necessarily agree with some of the examinations, but the fact is that one just cannot come from anywhere in the world-perhaps with the exception of New Zealand and possibly to a certain extent Britain- and choose to live in Australia. Whether one comes from Italy, Greece or Asia one is examined very carefully. My own view is that the system ought to be such that if a person from any country applies for entry to Australia his application should be considered on its merits. It is as simple as that. I have no preference one way or the other about quotas. I simply put- this to all those people who have some doubts about what might be called coloured migration. 
Let my friend the honourable member for Denison whom I would have thought ought to have been a Liberal man with his background and  so  on answer this question for ne: We bring to Australia people from all ever Europe. Some of them are closely ali:red with us. There is not much difference between ourselves and British people but the only affinity between ourselves and most Turks is the colour of our skin In religion, in political view, in social habit, in attitude to their women - 'the sub.jection of their women - in their skills and in their language, they have no affinity whatsoever with us. The children are found wandering around the school yards in Moreland and Brunswick where the parents have dropped them on the way to work. They know not a word of English and nobody at the school knows a word of their language. These poor little people hays to be rescued and put in the class room in an effort to do something for then. 
These people come into the community and do not cause any real disruption. But let Us take the case of some of my friends from Papua New Guinea or from India - people whose resemblance to and affinity with us are almost absolute. Their English, their religion, their political views, their political background, their education and their skills are as like ours as they can be. But their difference is the colour of their skin. I just do not believe that within the Australian community that single disaffinity is enough to create great social discord. I have been around the world and I know what has happened. So what I am asking is this: Will somebody tell me why a person who has as much affinity with us as has one of our friends from Papua New Guinea is more different from us than is the person who has come from, say, Turkey and is different from us in every regard? 
I believe that we are paying the Australian nation a very great uncompliment if that is the word. We are placing upon the members of the Australian community a set of values which I do not think they hold when we say that it is not possible for them to accommodate in their midst people who are different to this degree. Usually, if many people are poured in who are totally different in such a way that they cause dissatisfaction because of their way of life or because their behaviour is poor, that will cause dissatisfaction whether they are black, white or brown, or whether they are Liberal, Labor, Catholic or Protestant. I wish that all those people who are worrying about this matter would take a good look at their neighbours and say: 'What is wrong with them that I could not trust them to live with people like this as I would myself?' 
A couple of years back we let our house to an Indian family. They were the first Indians in the street and in the community. They were completely enchanted with the welcome they received. If there were hundreds of them, perhaps the situation would be different. I do not know. I do not see why it should be. Yesterday and today I have heard speeches - particularly from the members of the Country Party - which have been an insult to every person in Australia who does not happen to have a white skin; and there are 100,000 Aborigines to start with. I personally believe that the migration system has shown that the Australian community has a great absorptive capacity, a great tolerance and a great resilience. There are 26 young people in the matriculation form at the Coburg High School alone, which is only a few yards from my electorate, and when they turn up on speech night and whip off half the prizes they receive a good resounding cheer from the multitude. 
They come from Asia and places like that. I believe that many of the attitudes expressed by those people who doubt the capacity of the Australian people to be tolerant and understanding are quite unworthy of us. Howeover, I sympathise with all these people who do not want to open the floodgates. It is not our intention to open any floodgates. Even under the previous Minister for Immigration the administration of that Department was pretty good. In fact, it was very restrictive in many respects. I believe that the time has come for a proper evaluation of all the things that come under the heading of immigration, and that that will be achieved only if we do it in a bi-partisan way as a result of a committee of inquiry, as we have advocated here this evening. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  .put: 
That the question be now put. 
What a miserable performance the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  put up. Let me make our policy quite clear. Young Australians are not for lease in other people's wars. As far as I am concerned we will not send one overseas. I would not even send the young Liberals opposite, who are so keen on sending others. The honourable member for La Trobe managed to miss all the point of this debate. We are not reprimanding the Department today; we are reprimanding the Ministry, in particular the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn).  The issues are clear. Australian troops are not going to be sent on overseas commitments any more. When the honourable member for La Trobe read what we had to say in Laos and Cambodia last year he overlooked the point we made about peace for the peoples there. As far as I was concerned, I repeated what I said in 1966, that as far as I could tell the forces of North Vietnam were committing aggression in Laos and subsequently, of course, in Cambodia. You will not get anywhere by trying to confuse issues in that way. My statements, views and attitudes about the people of Cambodia are quite clear and they are on record here. The honourable member for La Trobe is an interesting example of how miserable a Liberal can be. He has tears only for the people of South East Asia; silence about anything that happens in Pakistan or India; absolute silence about the troubles of the Middle East; absolute silence on anything that happens in Africa. 
Now what are the issues? These are the issues as we have placed them before the House: First of all there is the people's entitlement to know of any commitment which involves the national security and the forces of Australia. On this the Government has been evasive and the Minister for Defence has not even known. 
Secondly, there is the concern that we have shown and everybody feels and the community is sharing with us on the confusion between the various departments. Thirdly, what are Australia's objectives in South East Asia? Finally, how do we protect the innocent people of Laos and the Khmer Republic? What is so depressing about today's exercise and the operations of departments and Ministers over the last few months is that in fact the Minister accepts no responsibility. For the last week he has been attempting to lay the blame upon his Department. These men who have been Ministers in this community for many years are the people who are on trial. I refer to the Foreign Minister  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  the Minister for Defence, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Government itself. So we have a motion of no confidence in the Minister for Defence. 
There is no need to outline again what has happened - the confusion between the various departments, the failure of the Minister for Defence to talk directly to the Prime Minister. Apparently he has telephones only for plotting; he is not able to use them when some planning for the nation is referred to. Time and again we have heard, particularly from the Minister for Defence, evasion and secrecy when he is concerned with the affairs of Australia. One has only to see the answers he has given to questions about bases in Australia. What the Labor Party will not stand for .s secret commitments by this Government or any other. What we will not stand for is the commitment of young Australians overseas in other people's wars. The question I want to ask is: Is the Minister for Defence a Minister of the Australian Parliament or is he an appendage of the American State Department? Has the Khmer Republic become another pawn in the inter-play between the United States State Department and our Foreign Ministry? Where did they come into it? What do we mean by all these arguments this afternoon? 
We had a commitment to South Vietnam made in broken French in a broken down Vietnamese cafe and now we have a low key commitment. Just what do we mean by a 'low key commitment'? How can we have a low key war? How can we have a small matter when we are talking about men's lives and war? The issue is the right of the people to know. 1 am deeply regretful of what has happened in the Khmer Republic. The behaviour of the Government there has become undemocratic and 1 believe that the Australian Government ought to make it clear to the Khmer Republic that we do not like the abolition of the National Assembly. It is almost like the failure of the Queensland Government to have elections when vacancies occur in the Queensland Parliament. The issue then is Ministerial responsibility and today I want to examine what Australia's response should be. The first reaction of this Government in any international situation has always been to reach for the sword. Those of us who have been here for 12 or 13 years remember the response to the Suez conflict. We know what we did about Malaysia. We know what happened in Vietnam. We always move towards military responses rather than diplomatic responses. The dreadful history of the Vietnamese situation has seeped through, perhaps, to the  Deputy  Prime Minister, but has it seeped through to the hawks of the Liberal Party? Let us look at an answer to a question by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  on 21st August 1962. It reads: 
The Australian Government has made available 30 highly skilled officer and non-commissioned officer instructions ... to ... the Republic of Vietnam . . . 
What has happened from there? We had 100 men in training teams. By the middle of 1964 the Royal Australian Air Force was committed. The 1st Battalion of the Australian Regular Army arrived in May 1965. A task force came in at the end of 1965. By 1967 we had committed RAAF bombers; our commitment had grown to 6,300. In late 1967 we sent in armour. By that time 8,000 troops had been committed. Now they are coming home. We are supposed to be scaling down but we have accepted a completely new commitment. What are the implications? 
You cannot move into the fields of battle without facing the enevitable escalation of war. Having put in the first small team you end up with defence forces to protect them - 200 or perhaps 300 men. Then there is some major offensive and we rush in more troops to protect them. At the first sign of trouble will they be evacuated? Then you end up with an all-out war. The Acting Prime Minister suggests that this will not happen. It has been one of the inevitable lessons of history - and will we never learn? So what should be done? First of all we should replace forward defence with forward diplomacy. I believe that our great error has been to rely upon the sword, not upon Australia's diplomatic initiatives. What alarms me and what amazes me is that no honourable member opposite has taken the trouble to see what the Prime Minister himself has on the notice paper. He has a motion to move: 
That this House supports the principle of the guaranteed neutrality of Cambodia and the two fundamental principles of the . . . 
non-interference in the affairs of other countries; and 
the right of all countries to determine their own future. 
Thirdly,- 
This is the key to the issue as I see it and what I believe would be Labor. Party attitude -  the House support the mutual and reciprocal withdrawal of all foreign troops from Cambodia with international supervision, particularly by the United Nations or the. Cambodian International Control Commission. 
So what we should be doing is exchanging military response for diplomatic initiatives. Why? Because the situation has changed dramatically. We now have China in the United Nations. The United Nations has now become a forum in which all the people involved, except the North Vietnamese, have a voice. It seems to me that there are areas of diplomatic initiative available to us. There are extensive diplomatic possibilities for a country which does not commit its troops. There is no possibility of achieving diplomatic rapport with countries of South East Asia if we put troops on the ground. I regard that as one of the facts of life and I am sure that that is the way humanity reacts. If you put troops on the ground you have taken a commitment to one side or the other, you are not in the business of attempting to produce neutrality and most people will not talk to you seriously. Therefore we can directly negotiate perhaps on behalf of the combatants to try to get the war stopped. We can exercise influence on the others or we can try to take action through the United Nations. So what ought to be done? First of ail, it looks as though somewhere in the Department of Foreign Affairs there ought to be a special team set up whose job it is to locate the areas of action and inter-action in this, and get on with the job, and also to ensure that none of this failure to communicate between that Department and the Prime Minister's Department will happen again. It is quite obvious that the departmental arrangements are in confusion. What are the other areas? 
First of all the United States of America is committed. Something must be done to commit America's diplomatic resources to the field. The Russians are in the field, not as soldiers but diplomatically, supplying resources. The Russians still have an embassy in Phnom Penh. The Russians have an embassy in Vientiane in Laos. The Russians have an embassy in Hanoi. The Russians are in Peking and therefore they are part of the key to the situation. We should be using all our influence upon the Russians to get them to exercise their influence. The British are in much the same position. The British have some kind of representation in Hanoi. They have an embassy in Peking. They have representation in Vientiane in Laos, in Saigon and in- 
In Hanoi and also in Phnom Penh. The point about the British is that they are on the ground in all the places that matter and somehow we ought to be encouraging them to use their good offices. Then, of course, there are our own resources which are rather extensive and in the hands of first class diplomats in Bangkok, Singapore and Kuala Lumpur. What is the machinery? We are dealing with human beings. These are not strings of history. These are not pawns in a game - not pieces on a chess board. We are dealing with human beings, and they are all subject to influence. So we should be taking action in the United Nations General Assembly. Why has Australia not placed an item on the agenda of the United Nations General Assembly? Ceylon has an item on the agenda relating to the Indian Ocean. Why has Australia not taken some initiative in this regard? 
I do not believe that there is any solution to the problems of the people of the 
Khmer Republic and the Royal Lao community, whatever its official title, or even of the 2 Vietnams by Australian military action, no matter how effective our troops. Ever since the end of the Second World War I have believed that, in the end, it is in diplomacy that we will find peace. I believe that this motion this afternoon is a motion of no confidence also in the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  He is an incredible Minister for Foreign Affairs. I find it difficult to believe that a commonsense Australian would say some of the things that he has said. He was in the United States of America recently and he said: 
Now you know this, and some of the things which United States has had to do recently, have had to be done in a way and in a style which I believe has given considerable impetus and comfort to this particular section of our political structure in Australia. 
In other words he says that Nixon is campaigning for the Australian Labor Party. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  says that Chou En-lai is- campaigning for the Labor Party. Seemingly we have a most powerful ticket on our side. But, of course, all that this indicates is an incredible naivete. The man who is Australia's Minister for Foreign Affairs should not say things like that. My other information - I cannot lay my hands on it - is that somewhere recently the Minister said that Australia is of no particular significance, or words to that effect. These are incredible statements by Australia's Foreign Minister because I do not believe that in the field of diplomacy Australia is insignificant. I believe that the community of South East Asia is prepared to talk to Australia as partners and equals. Australia has a status which we should not ignore. This has nothing to do with our weight of battleships. No-one can deny that it is the kind of people who make up the diplomatic service - one of them graces this House - who are effective in the man to man relationships and the diplomacy of the 1970s. 
What are our objectives? To stop the war. Will we stop the war with a training team? Of course not. Another objective is to try to find some machinery for protecting the people of the Khmer Republic and the country of Laos. We have to bring to them neutrality and peace and we have to convince the governments of Vietnam - North and South - that there is some other way. 
I believe that the indictment levelled by the Opposition this afternoon has not been answered. There has been departmental confusion. Government supporters have admitted this. There has been Cabinet noncoordination. There has been an incorrect assessment of the situation in South East Asia and no recognition of the new role that China can play. There has been ministerial irresponsibility and there has been a complete policy reversal, I believe, fraught with danger for the future. The Prime Minister and his Ministers in general are indicted, particularly the Minister for Defence for the fumbling way in which he is handling one of the most important departments of State. (Quorum formed) 
Is there going to be some discussion on this? 
I know I can, but has the Government taken the trouble to ask the members of the Committee of Privileges to make their reports to the House personally? What I want to raise in discussing the report is that for the IS or 16 years I have been here we have been discussing this question of privilege. There are those members of the community who think, and rightly so, that some of the forms of procedure in relation to privilege are inadequate in this day and age and likely to produce injustice. Sometimes they produce aberrations; sometimes things pass by that ought to be dealt with. Therefore I hope that we will get round to doing something about the genera] question of privilege. Until we have done that I believe we are failing in our duty, and that is- principally the reason that I rise. 
The other point I want to make - and I know there are some members of the Privileges Committee in the House now - is that I think that when a report such as this is brought in they ought to stand up and explain the report in public. After all, the community is concerned just as much as we are about privilege. It does not belong only to the person who is affected, it belongs to the whole House and the whole community. The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  has approached this in an offhand way. Even if this were a question that was to come before the House and be discussed later, after due notice to honourable members, the fact that the report has been circulated is not good enough. So apart from the general principles governing the way in which privilege ought to operate in this Parliament, it is the way in which the Parliament itself ought to operate in dealing with such matters that needs to be looked into. One of the greatest offenders in the way in which this Parliament is conducted is the Leader of the House. He has made a farce of question time. He has kept the House sitting at all sorts of odd hours and he has failed to do anything about questions on the notice paper such as the one on standing committees that has been there for IS months and is now item 64 on the notice paper. 
I am interested in the report. I note that it has not been possible to find the writer of the letter. I note that the editor has been asked to do something and I presume he will. 
That is right, as I am told by my colleague from Melbourne Ports. I do not read the 'Australian' so avidly that I find all of those things in it. That could have been reported to us, I suppose. Perhaps it is referred to somewhere in the report. Ali I can say is that this is not the way to treat a matter such as this. The Leader of the House ought to have made better arrangements for a debate, brief as it might be, on the subject. The members of the Committee, particularly the  Chairman,  ought to have had something to say. Anyway, why did not the  Chairman  move the motion? 1 suppose there is something in the Standing Orders that allows the Leader of the House to do so. 
I know, but what have you got to do with the Privileges Committee when all is said and done? You are just another minion of the House like the rest of us. You are just another part of this Parliament. You do not own the thing, even if you do spend most of question time ruining the general operation of it. If we are going to run a parliament we must all be treated as equal parts of it. There comes a time when the Leader of the House, because of his special position, has some special privileges and duties but the rest of us are concerned with matters such as this. I therefore make my continuous complaint about the way in which the Parliament operates, ls there any possibility of the Privileges Committee itself examining this question of privilege and bringing down a report on the precise procedures that we ought to adopt? Should a man be tried like this? Should a person in this situation be brought before a committee of the House in the circumstances that exist? In other words, should he be allowed special representation, and so on and so on? There was a privilege case before the Senate a few months ago. What are the rules going to be? We ought not to allow things to drift on in this way. Some day we are going to perpetrate some dreadful injustice upon somebody and we will all be to blame. 
I do not know that I am in complete agreement with my friend the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  on this question of overseas trips. I suppose honourable members would say, and rightly too, that I have been overseas a few times myself, sometimes on parliamentary delegations and sometimes in other ways - once as a soldier - but I suggest to my friends opposite that some of them might try travelling as a soldier as my friend the honourable member for Sturt  [Mr Foster)  did on a number of occasions in the nation's cause. But I do believe that where it is necessary for us to meet and talk to people around the world, this if a function that we can usefully perform. I agree with my friend from Adelaide and my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  - also my friend - that at a time such as this when the Parliament is meeting on one of the infrequent occasions on which it does meet that the Ministers ought to be here. I do believe that the criticism of the absence from Australia - I will not call it a trip - of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  by the honourable member for Dawson is correct and that the Minister's absence is an abdication from his duties here. 
I also believe, and this is why I am speaking tonight, that we do not really pay enough attention to the actual managerial function of this Parliament in its application to its executive function in running the Australian nation. I think that also was what my colleague from Dawson was saying; that the Minister for Primary Industry had such an important managerial, executive and policy making function that it was a full time job not just for him but probably for a number of men. We are discussing the Department of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is absent in the United States of America. In other circumstances it might be desirable for him to be absent, and with the sort of Prime Ministerial leadership we are getting it might be better if he stayed absent, but the facts are that at this moment the Parliament is meeting and I doubt if his contribution to the nation's welfare by his absence overseas warrants his being away from the Parliament when it is meeting. I put the point that when the Parliament is in session, in general the membership ought to be here, in particular the Ministry, because its members are the executive members of this Parliament and they are the people who must answer. They are the only ones who can answer for the administration of the country. 
Generally speaking, I believe that the Prime Minister ought to have no executive or departmental functions other than being the Prime Minister and the leader of the Cabinet. I understand that the obligations of our Constitution are such that to be a Minister one has to be in charge of a department. That is easy enough. Our Prime Minister has had enough practice being in charge of departments. The man who is Prime Minister of Australia is administering a Department which, according to the estimates, has $28. 5m to dispose of. He disposes of $900,000 on VIP aircraft and S6.6m on Australia House. Our representation in the United Kingdom is a sideshow for the Prime Minister of Australia. I agree with my colleagues who say that this ought to be brought into the general area of the Department of Foreign Affairs. As a matter of fact, I do not like the term 'foreign affairs'. It was a piece of 19th century vanity which led to the change from 'external affairs' to 'foreign affairs'. As far as I am concerned. I hope that we are trying to produce a world in which nobody is foreign. Probably we would do better if we called it the Ministry of International Relations. 
The Prime Minister is responsible for the Public Service Board, also. The appropriation for the Public Service Board is $7. 2m. He is responsible for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. T do not think that he has the time to handle any of these matters. The only way in which the Parliament could fake control of the Public Service of Australia would be perhaps to have a special ministry for the Public Service Board. I believe that the Public Service Board is large enough, its functions are important enough and the relations of the Public Service to the rest of the community, and to the Parliament and the morale of the Public Service are important enough to be a full time job for a Minister. 
 The other point that I wish to make is with respect to what I believe is a dangerous development in this House in particular. It is a sort of gradation of membership. An infinite subordination is developing inside the Parliament here. There are 7 grades of members, as I see it. This Parliament is, after all, a convocation of equals. Nothing demonstrates this more dramatically than the position of the right hon ourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  Not so long ago, he was Prime Minister of this country. At the flick of his hands he could call up VIP aircraft. He could have them panting on the heath for hours waiting for him to turn up. He could flip around the country. He was the great executive. In some respects, he had some style about him. I did not approve of his politics. In some areas I approved of his style and his personality. But now he is on the back bench. He is still a member of the Privy Council, but he is on the back bench and he is as helpless as the rest of us. 
I think that this demonstrates something that is damaging to this Parliament. We have now increased the number of layers of subordination. I make them 7. First of all, there is the Prime Minister. He is in a class on his own - and honourable members can read that remark how they will. But in this situation, because of the kind of party that he leads - and nobody else but he would be bothered trying to lead a party like that - he has an authority and is in a position of dictatorship, one might say, which is quite un-Australian. 
Then there is the Cabinet - the other 11. They are in a class of their own, too. They meet and decide policy. They might decide to go to war. They might even hear weeks after the event that we have gone to war. They might decide not to allow Wilfred Burchett to come into Australia and then find that he can come anyway. Then there is the third layer - the Ministry. Included in it are people like the present Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who was going to revolutionise the situation of the Aborigines. But he was on the outer; he was out on the flank somewhere. 
I come next to the Assistant Ministers. I have no idea what they are for. I just congratulate them on becoming members of the Executive Council. It is probably nice to be 'Honourable'. The rest of us are honourable by habit, but they are honourable by definition. Then we have the Opposition front bench - another area of superiority, we might say. Then there is the back benches of the Liberal and Country Parties. One would think that one could not get further back than that. But some of them occupy positions of extreme authority. My friend from Angas  (Mr Giles)  stands over there and moves the gag. When he snaps his fingers, they all stand up and march to the roll of his drum no matter what he says or does. Then you come to the last, the serfs - us - the back benchers of the Labor Party. 
I do not believe that this is the way the Parliament ought to be run. What is the task? We are the executive authority of the nation. My personal belief is that we must try to produce a system in which the representative of the people of Wills has some say in the executive authority of the nation in the same way as the representative of the people of Lowe has. I can think of no reason why the people of Lowe ought to have more influence on the direction of the executive power of the nation than have the people of Wills. This would be a difficult change, I know. But it is time that we examined the way in which the executive authority of this Parliament is exercised. 
I believe that the Prime Minister's power is an anachronism. It belongs to the feudal system. I can think of no relationship between the Prime Minister in the Liberal Party system and the Australian style of life. I do not believe we are a leadership nation. I do not believe it is decent or dignified that one man can sit and shuffle people like a deck of cards. I do not believe that it is dignified for the people who are shuffled - although personally I would like to see all the Ministers shuffled out of ministerial positions - and 1 think the way in which this has been done is, I believe, a pretty poor compliment to the departments presided over by those Ministers. Some departments of State which have a very large area of authority in the community have been treated as if it did not matter who was running them. I believe this has a very damaging result for the people of the nation. 
Then there is the managerial task. I believe that the idea of government as being different from the Parliament is an historical myth. I have not time to discuss it tonight. I just want to say a word or two about that distinguished organisation, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. What is its task? 1 understand from the Minister who was in charge of it when it was formed that it was designed to protect Australia's defence establishments. What is its origin? What are its values? You only have to hear the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  talking about us to see what its values are. What is its use? I can think of none. I believe that it is perpetuating a system of mistrust in the community. It is based upon a system of values which are irrelevant. I believe it is creating great injustices for a number of citizens. I believe there must be another more satisfactory way in which we can find out whether anybody in this community is being subversive. I believe that ASIO is an un-Australian institution in the way that it is conducted. The fact that $4im and a large number of people, perhaps 300, 500 or 600, are involved in it in the task of keeping nit on the rest of the community is completely un-Australian. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This measure raises an important point, as my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  mentioned, about the procedures of Parliament in the handling of finance. According to the Schedule, this Bill involves an amount of $138,215,000 which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  told us is simply to keep the place going until the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 is passed. While I am prepared to concede that these machinery matters occur year after year, I ask: Is it not time that we started to look at these matters before the money is appropriated so that the Parliament can approve the Estimates before the event? I am not in sympathy with the idea that we should not debate these matters. We have not been here longer than is necessary since the last Federal election - just over 130 sitting days. After all, the House was able to take half an hour off a week or so ago so that people could listen to a horse race. The system of priorities, the way we run the 
Parliament and the way we handle the finances of the nation are a complete abrogation of the responsibility of the Parliament towards national finances. Apparently our only protection will continue to be the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I think that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  as a back bencher, has done this chamber a better service in questioning the defence programme of this country than he ever did while he was highly placed in the Ministry. What puzzles me about the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Wentworth is that in fact they have been practically running the country for a number of years and now they suddenly find that there are some aberrations in it. But I believe . that the point of view, which suggests that the Parliament ought to have placed before it all the arguments in each of these areas so that we can examine them thoroughly before we make a decision involving tremendous expenditure, is a valid one, and 1 think that the honourable member for Wentworth is on the side of the angels as far as that suggestion is concerned. 
There are one or two other points that have been made in the debate, lt seems to me that my friend the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  is still a little ship struck, particularly if they are Russian ships. He used some beautiful phrases which have been used so often that they are now part of the mythology of Australia. He talked about us being like King Ethelred the Unready. 1 do not know from what part of history the honourable member got that. He also talked about us becoming internationally selfish. What does he mean by that? Has he charged off to help the people of East Pakistan? Has he gone to open the Suez Canal? Is he trying to protect the people of Belfast? Not on your life. But if somebody makes an error somewhere along the line in South East Asia, particularly if it is a very bad sort of government, he will send young Australians to defend that country. 
On this question of international selfishness, it might not be a bad idea to ask some of our neighbours where they stand. Last year I had discussions with people in Thailand. I spoke to Thailand's Foreign Minister. He said: 'Australia must not retreat to isolationism; it must not become internationally selfish' - almost the words used by the honourable member for Isaacs. I said: 'That is very well, but if we have trouble with some of our neighbours and call for help, will you turn up with a few regiments or divisions of your Army, with your Air Force and so on,' He said: 'Oh, no'. I said: 'Why not?' He said: 'That is different'. In fact, what we have managed to do is to make ourselves available for other people's errors and follies, and I do not believe that this is what we are in business for. I think that the honourable member for Isaacs, in some of his terminology, demonstrated the 1938 and 1942 neurosis with which we are still inflicted. 
The right honourable member for Higgins - a former Minister for the Navy, a former Prime Minister and a former Minister for Defence - now finds that 500 lives later it was an error to go into Vietnam. He also referred to one or two other matters that I may have a moment or two to examine before my remaining seven or eight minutes have expired. As far as I could tell, the right honourable member for Higgins defined all the need for defence out of the argument. What are the threats? The honourable member for Wentworth said that Australia had to be made safer. The first question we ought to ask is: Safer from whom'? It would be a good idea if during the debate on the defence estimates and in foreign policy debates we were to hang on the walls of this chamber a very large map of the area involved. We could then look at the facts of life. This year alone we are spending $ 1,200m. Is it China of which we are afraid? I am told, not any more. The Government will have to find different sorts of arrows for (he next lot of pamphlets it puts out. Is it Japan of which we are afraid? Not when the Japanese practically get us for free. Is it Russia? Not a chance of it! Then what could be the threats? 
None of us is going to say that because we cannot see any threates now we will not see them in the foreseeable future and that the defence budget should be removed altogether. So honourable members should look at what could be the threats. We could face invasion from the air or the sea, or perhaps overland into New Guinea. We could face assault from the sea or air. By that 1 mean people firing on us without actually trying to land. What is the only valid threat? Is anybody going to turn up in the foreseeable future with an invasion army? Of course they are not. Nobody has said they could. 1 have not time to debate it here this afternoon, but anybody who cares to look at the record and sees what is involved in an oversea invasion will realise that nobody within 3,000 miles of Australia could possibly launch an invasion in the foreseeable future. If anybody can produce a counter argument to that, I will be interested to hear it. 
So the threat must come from the sea - either on the surface or from submarines. Which one? I do not claim to be a scientific expert, but experts tell me that with the new satellites it is almost possible to track every ship that moves on the surface of the ocean. So if somebody is mobilising a sea force to attack us we will know it is coming. Even the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  will probably know it is coming. After all, it would take 10 days to get here from the nearest part of China, and the information that they were on their way would seep through the corridors of power and the lobbies and would reach the Minister's desk and be sent on to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  and eventually we would have a day's notice. But that is not likely to happen. So it seems to me that the threat would be from submarines. I am not obsessed about submarines but I believe that that is where we ought to turn the major part of our attention, because the submarine is still the hardest thing to find. It is still possible that the Russians and the Americans, in confrontation for some reason «r other - I do not believe it will happen but we have to look at the possibility - will have the North West Cape base and Pine Gap in their sights. I hope, for his own welfare, that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will be absent at the time. 
So what is our task? It is to find submarines in the water. I believe that we ought to be turning all our scientific effort to the solution of that problem. In the Defence Report it is stated to be our major scientific effort. It is one of the tragedies of this time that the Government parties in particular have been inclined to write Australians out of the system and say that they are not really good enough to do these things. I believe that our scientist; are as good as any others. So what is to be done? We must produce a system which will inhibit the use of Australian waters by submarines. I am taking a very special exercise this afternoon because of the restriction of time in this debate. There are a number of ways in which to track submarines, none of them as yet very effective. It can be done by sonar from surface ships, by sonar from submarines, by sonar from helicopters, by sonar buoys in conjunction with aircraft, by various airborne detectors, by radar in ships and aircraft, by fixed sonars in the ocean, by shore, ship or aircraft direction finders and by electronic warfare. 
That is a formidable list, but as yet none of those methods provides a total answer. I believe that we ought to be turning our major effort to them and at the same time we must make a rational analysis of the situation. I am not going to say that I am the only person in this chamber or this community who has applied a rational analysis to the problem. What I am suggesting is that there ought to be better public debate and better parliamentary participation. What we need is some system to find submarines in the water and to examine and keep under examination by radar all of the sea and air space around Australia for a certain distance. What we do not need are expensive missile destroyers. As I understand it, the faster they go the less chance there is of their finding anything, because sound is the essence of the contact. We should not be spending $400m on new fighters and bombers at this stage. There is not a single fighter within 3,000 miles of us that could reach us that could not be handled even by the Sabre. The same applies, I should think, to bombers. How could anybody bomb us and get back home? 
What we do not need is a national service system. If there is a greater irrelevancy than the national service system - apart from the wickedness of it - I would like to hear about it. I do not believe that the calling up of 20-year-olds is the best way to find soldiers. Let me refer to figures relating to the age of soldiers of a battalion in August 1945. Only 150 of them were under 21, 253 were between 22 and 25, 189 were between 26 and 30, more than 100 were over 30. Of the 711 soldiers, 328 were over 26. We should have a full public debate and a total examination of the situation. We must forget the phoney appreciations of our friends opposite and take a good look at the situation. We do not live in Europe. We are not victims of the aberrations of the imperial dominations of Europe of 30 or 40 years ago. We live in a totally new world. 
Perhaps a parliamentary committee of some sort should be appointed to examine the situation. Perhaps we should sit down and bring the rationale that the honourable member for Wentworth and the right honourable member for Higgins were inclined to bring, to the debate this afternoon. Unfortunately it was too late to have Cabinet effectiveness. Perhaps Australia should start to look at the situation, get rid of the theorism which has stricken us for so long and take a look at the real facts of life. I am agreeably surprised by the public acceptance of the admission of China to the United Nations. People are starting to take a new look at China. I would think that in the long run the Chinese are likely to be more rational neighbours than the Russians, or even the Americans in some contexts. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Perhaps the Leader of the House can tell us exactly what the plans are in relation to sitting times for the weeks to follow. There are rumours around the ridges that the House is to meet on Fridays and that we will do all sort of things. Although planning this, of course, anathema to anything which he has to deal with, will the Leader of the House tell us what his plans are? 
It is almost a pity that the honourable member's time has expired for I found myself in agreement with some of his sentiments. 

 His geography is accurate and his sentiments about the Indonesians are fair enough. But I simply disagree and say that instead of worrying himself about military co-operation with the Indonesians, if we could teach more Indonesians in Australian schools and assist them in their studies of English and so on it might be a better way to protect the peace of this part of the world. Today is Remembrance Day. This morning this part of the Parliament anyhow - I noticed that the Senate did not - knocked off for an hour and a quarter to allow this House at least to pay some respect to what Remembrance Day means. So I went over to the Australian War Memorial. As far as I am concerned such an exercise is a pilgrimage of peace and I hope that on any future occasions the Parliament will take note of that, and if next year we are still sitting at this time and Remembrance' Day falls on a sitting day the Parliament pays the same respect to the occasion as it did on this occasion. It is in sharp contrast to the respect we pay to the Melbourne Cup and on this occasion at least I was grateful for this fact. 
I wish we could divert people's attention on both Anzac Day and Remembrance Day to consider what they are about - gratitude for peace on Remembrance Day and on Anzac Day, remembrance of the sacrifice and folly of war and the loyalty that produced the kinds of things that happened. One of the most piquant and touching parts of today's operation was the laying of wreaths by the representatives of the Commonwealth countries; the Indian representative laying a wreath followed immediately by the representative of Pakistan. Occasionally we can bring these people together if we are prepared to take the initiative, and this is the field in which Australia has the greatest opportunities and in which it shows the least enterprise. I believe that our foreign policy is based upon a number of false assumptions. First of all, there is the suggestion of threats from our north. I think my friend from the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would now agree that there is no threat from Indonesia. Most of the Government spokesmen, when they are in the public eye or speaking into the public ear, say that there is no threat in the foreseeable future. But at the same time we are talking about spending hundreds of millions of dollars on new aircraft, new ships and all the rest of it although honourable members opposite say they believe there is no threat in the foreseeable future, no possible threat to the security of this country in a military sense. 
I would like to debate this with the honourable member for Mallee on some occasion when we have more time to do so. But there is no possible threat to Australia whether we are prepared or not, and I am not one to write the defence system out. I do not have time to debate arguments across the floor wilh the honourable member in this case but I do not believe that it is possible for anyone who is within 3,000 miles of us to mount a threat within the foreseeable future; and this has nothing to do with whether we have armaments or not. It is one of the facts of life. That does not say that I believe we ought to have none, but I just say that is the case. Nothing that we can do in the form of military exercises can intimidate the Chinese or anyone else. 
I do not believe that the people who are to our north are in great turmoil any more than anywhere else. There is no more trouble in most of South East Asia than there is in Belfast. There is certainly no more threat in that part of the world than there is in the Middle East. But constantly we have it tossed into the ring here that we are in an area of great turmoil and trouble. We are told that it is an area of great deprivation and so on, but it is not as seriously deprived as many parts of Turkey, India or Pakistan. I do not believe that the people to our north are hostile. I do not believe that war is inevitable. I believe that the moment the barriers fell between the French and the Germans in Europe it was a great moment in history. If the Europeans can stop fighting each other, then anybody can. 
The other assumption which I think is false is that our interests are more closely allied to those of the United States of America than they are to those of India or Indonesia. I do not believe it. There is something inherent in the way we think about these things that the first and most important affinity one has with people is the colour of their skin. I do not believe it. I do not believe there is a difference between people that is based upon skin colour. Therefore, we should be spending a lot of our diplomatic exercise, enterprise and initiative on getting close to people such as Indonesians and Indians in particular. 
The other point I want to make in the few moments that one has is the inadequacy of the debates in this Parliament on foreign affairs, lt does not matter, perhaps, if we make a serious error on social services. The country will still survive. People might be deprived or they might even, by some great stroke of good fortune, be paid more than they ought to be. But the world will not stop and the nation will not collapse. However, if we make errors in foreign policy we bring the whole nation into peril. A serious deficiency of the last 5 or 6 "years of the administration has been the inadequacy of debate on foreign affairs in this place. We cannot debate this subject in the few moments given to each of us this afternoon. We cannot debate it in this way. There should be a definitive statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs every time there is a major international issue and there ought to be time allotted for us to debate such a statement. Perhaps these issues should be brought before a House committee of the same sort that was established by the Senate. What is wrong with the place that we do not do it that way? Practically every other parliament treats this subject in this way. Public knowledge here is at a discount. 
We have the issue of keeping training teams in Vietnam to train Cambodians. Everyone is trying to hide it, sweep it under the carpet and keep it out of sight. That is point one. Then we have that wonderful demonstration of democracy at its best by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who says that only those people who need to know may visit the foreign bases. So we have 2 areas of ignorance. There is the attempt to keep the country in ignorance, without parliamentary debate, on deliberations in secret on issues like Cambodia and foreign bases in Australia. 1 believe that in Cambodia the task is to establish diplomatic action through the United Nations. As 1 said here in debate last week, one of the interesting facts about China's entry to the United Nations is the enthusiasm with which the Chinese apparently are accepting that promotion, if that is it; and with China in that body there is a new forum and a new grouping of people to try to find a solution. 
I will not be satisfied with the Cambodian situation until somehow we have guaranteed the freedom and neutrality of that country. I deplore the present Government's behaviour inasmuch as it has abandoned Parliament. It would not be long before this group here would do the same if it could get away with it; but the facts are that the Cambodian people are entitled to live in peace and neutrality. Our task ought to be to protect them as far as we can and the United Nations is our forum in which to do this. The idea of putting more troops into the field is folly in excelsis. 
The other great error relates to foreign bases. I know that our friends opposite say: 'You are treasonable, you are seditious, you are going to hold us in great peril.' I have said ever since the debate began on the United States Communication Station at North West Cape that I regarded it as an act of treachery to alienate the sovereignty of Australian soil and place us in a position where decisions about our future can be made by others. But we cannot debate that matter this afternoon, either. 
What I do want to say briefly is that I believe one of the great issues of international policy these days is not the threat of imperialism but the overwhelming demands of sovereignty. The great modern net ideology is sovereignty - the right of the State over the individual, the power to use the loyalty of the individual, the power to use force, the monopoly of violence. The acquiescence and the sheer force of it all mean that the individual counts for less these days when it comes to conflicts with the community and the State at large than in probably any other place in history. It seems to me that this falls into 5 categories. We ought to be trying to mitigate the power of sovereignty - if that is the correct word - the absolute power of the State over the individual - the kind of thing we see happening around the world now. I refer to the right of a state to prevent secession by force of arms. What if East Pakistan does want to leave? Who would shoot a Tasmanian to keep Tasmania in the federation? 
 The honourable member would shoot them to keep them in the federation; the Treasurer would probably say he would pay them to go. However, I refer also to the right to unite by force of arms. Of what possible profit is it to the people of North Vietnam, North Korea or South Korea to unite a country's people by killing millions or for the right to use another's territory for one's military purposes? Indeed, the victims of such acts are innumerable around the world. The Cambodians and the people of Laos are some of them. Do we agree with the right to deprive a section of its residents of equality such as in South Africa? What I want to see is the Minister for Foreign Affairs get on to the world stage and stand for some of the morality of human relations. When we can bring to international relations the same sense of humanity and the same morality as we accept or demand between individuals then I believe that the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs will all be well spent and ought to be expanded. But at present the failure to use our initiative and enterprise for the rights of humanity when we cannot do anything by military action is our greatest possible failure. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am glad that my friend from Sturt  (Mr Foster)  preceded me in this debate and took his part in it. I think that the point that he made was well taken. It is time that we started to think for ourselves. The other point that he made was that we should try to get out of the 18th century, if that is possible, in our thinking. This is one of the reasons why I wish to say a few more words. I refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley).  In a way, he is very persuasive.  His  words flow very effectively - or would if only they had something to do with the subject which is the over-stress of power. I believe that we have still to drag the honourable member from somewhere about the time of the Congress of Vienna and bring him up to the present stage. But, in this instance, he is only voicing, I believe, the beliefs and attitudes of honourable members opposite. 
I still believe that a great deal of the thinking on the foreign policy of this country is based upon an attitude derived from the 1930s and in particular from 1942. Generally speaking this attitude is based on the question of the balance of power which, I believe, is now irrelevant. The honourable member for Chisholm referred to the uneasy truce. Surely we are not going to say that what exists between the Russians and the Americans is just a state of truce? 
Now, is that what it is? If we look at the situation from our end of the telescope, is that what it is? Obviously there are great tensions, based on all sorts of things, but is this the kind of truce which is likely to produce war? My optimistic belief - I believe that this is where I part company theoretically from my friends opposite because I take an optimistic view rather than a pessimistic view of the situation - is that it is unlikely that all of these tensions which occur will produce war between them. What we should be doing is surrendering our views about the inevitability of war and the threats of power, and asking ourselves whether these things are valid any more. 
One of the problems which the honourable member raised concerned the external role of the United States of America and, I take it, of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and of China also. Just what influence does a country, simply because it is big, exercise in foreign policy any more? It is true that it is impressive to see the rockets roll past in Red Square on May Day, to see the Phantoms zoom past somewhere or to see the USS 'Enterprise' pull into Sydney Harbour. The USS 'Enterprise' looks powerful and impressive. But how influential is it really? 
That is right. We can ask Dubcek. Dubcek was operating inside a hostile environment of his own. I take it that the honourable member has visited Prague or he would not be speaking with so much confidence. 
Of course, the honourable member would understand the situation inside those countries! Trying to change the Communist Party inside Czechoslovakia, Poland or East Germany would be as difficult as St John trying to change the Liberal Party in this place. This seems to me to be irrelevant to the modern situation. I asked the people of Yugoslvaia whether the Russians really were a threat. They said: 'Well, they were mobilised on our borders for 4 years' - between late 1948 and early 1953, I think it was - 'but we made it clear that we would take an awful lot of them with us if they came over the border.' When the chips were down the Russians could not change the internal policies of Yugoslavia. The United States of America and the USSR are unable to change the intransigence, if that is what it is, of the Israelis or the Arabs. A country's power or influence does not depend any more upon its battleships. Their influence is minimal. I do not believe that even this Australian Government - miserable as it is, as my friend the honourable member for Sturt pointed out - is likely to be intimidated by a flock of Russian ships sailing around the Indian Ocean. 
Really what 1 wanted to do was to expand on the remarks 1 was making about the threat of sovereignty of nations to the individual in the present situation. The Australian Government ought to be trying to change this situation. Our real task in this part of the world is to protect individuals against the eccentricity of state power. State power is based on all sorts of things. You run a series of dotted lines across a map and suddenly you say: 'You belong to us.' The people of East Pakistan at this moment are the most sorry victims of such an exercise. The idea is that because you are in power you have an absolute right to control the rights of the citizens. They are not really individuals. They have no rights as citizens. They are just people inside a dotted line. Because somebody put a dotted line across New Guinea last century people on one side belong to the government in Djakarta. This is where we ought to step into the international arena. We ought to be trying to protect individuals, groups of individuals and the small nations by the mobilisation of international authority. 
I believe we have a role to play there, that has nothing to do with the fact that we have not yet ordered these multimillion dollar destroyers. I believe that the relationships between human beings are more important than the threat of power rolling on from battleships, aircraft or anything else. This has been our most tragic abdication in the last few years. I appeal to the Minister to try to intervene in the situation in Indo-China through the United Nations. I understand the power game and that politics is what it is no matter what the human beings are made of. We should mobilise enough people at the United Nations to take a good close look and see that the rights of the people of Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia are protected and that nobody takes away the rights of the people of North Vietnam or the rights of the people of South Vietnam. But the principle victims, in my view - I have held this view for a number of years and I have been assailed for it - are the people of Cambodia and Laos. There is no doubt about the tragic situation of the people of North and South Vietnam. I was one who was critical of the American bombing from the day it was announced. 1 remain so. I regard the bombing of civilian communities or any community as an act of barbarity that should appal us. 
Can we not do something to get the international body politic or the community of nations into this act so that we can entice peacefulness among the people there and at least try to do something to protect the neutrality and the territorial integrity of these 2 countries? That was my particular reason for speaking now. My other reason was to remind the House that honourable members opposite apparently, according to Government sources, think the game is hopeless. According to my friend the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  American policies now mean that Nixon is campaigning for the Labor Party. According to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  our policies are such that Chou En-lai is campaigning for the Labor Party. So when the Nixon-Chou En-lai ticket takes the field I cannot see how the Liberals can possibly survive. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Are Papuans and New Guineans finding it difficult to compete with expatriates for the allocation of medium high covenant land. 
Are Papuans and New Guineans facing difficulties in raising the money for minimum upset price and then complying with the improvement covenant. 
If so, will the Government take steps to (a) abolish upset price requirements and (b) extend improvement covenants for 2 year periods for all Papuans and New Guineans. 
Is any preference given to Papuans and New Guineans in the allocation of land. 
Will he request the Department of Lands to implement a scheme whereby in 1972 20 per cent of all land in all groupings is specifically increased for Papuans and New Guineans and this percentage is increased by 20 per cent each following year until a point is reached where expatriates can only apply for 20 per cent of all available land in the Territory. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on Order of the Day No. 68, Standing Orders Committee - report dated 10th June 1970 - being resumed forthwith. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has just pointed out how fast this Government is on sewerage. The point I want to make to the Parliament this afternoon is how slow the Parliament is on its own affairs. I am moving the suspension of Standing Orders because it seems to me there is no other way in which one can bring before the Parliament for effective discussion the Parliament's own business. The position about our Standing Orders is this: First of all, Government business takes priority. If one goes through the Standing Orders one can ee here and there the executive direction of the Parliament in that Government business has absolute priority. The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  regards the Parliament as his own private concern and, in general, the non-ministerial members of the Parliament and their general business is of little account. But there is provision for general business. Every so often it occurs. Every second Thursday it ought to occur. 
Every so often it is suspended, but occasionally the general business of the Parliament and its membership does come before the Parliament. There is occasion . when private members can raise matters, as we have just had in the debate on a matter of public importance. There is machinery for doing it. It is done quite consistently, and I believe it is a very important part of the Parliament's operation. But there is no provision in the Standing Orders, in the machinery of the House or in the way in which we run the affairs of this Parliament for the business of Parliament itself. Therefore, this afternoon I am raising this question through this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
Last year the Standing Orders Committee. which is the instrument of this Parliament for examining its own ' relationships inside the Parliament, the way in which it will handle the nation's legislation, reports and so on and our relationships with one another and the Ministry, examined a number of matters and tabled a report on them in the Parliament. I think the report is dated some time in June last year, lo any institution that ought to have been priority one. There ought to be nothing which takes precedence over the business of the Parliament itself. This is the first clement of it, and yet it has been languishing on the notice paper for about 15 months. As a matter of fact, I am raising the question in this way this afternoon because there seems to be no other way in which one can do it. Back in August on the anniversary of having raised this matter here' before I intended to ask this question: 
I refer to the report of the Standing Orders Committee presented to this House on 18th August last year - that is over 12 months agowhich is now languishing on today's notice paper. 
It had a different number then. The question continued: 
When will this matter be brought forward. . . .  1 reminded the House that we decided to have free votes on Standing Orders matters. But I did not get the call. One is verylucky to get the call on occasions when one wants to raise matters at question time, so one is driven to the point where one has to stop the operations of the Parliament. I believe I have done so honestly on this occasion. Honourable members might say: 'Why not do it tomorrow' or 
*why did you not do it yesterday?' I chose this occasion for various reasons which I circulated to honourable members. 1 understand some honourable members opposite have given consideration to the question of standing committees. I understand some of them support it. I was told that one of our colleagues was given good publicity on the national news. He is big time. He is in favour of several committees. Thinking the matter over, how can he get that matter forward? He would be uphill in the way in which we operate at trie present moment. Therefore, my solution to that problem is to bring on the existing notice on the notice paper and then he can move his idea as an amendment. 
This afternoon during question time an honourable member opposite asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  whether either he or the Government had given the matter any consideration. One of the principles adopted as a result of the decision of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was that on Standing Orders questions we ought to have a free vote. 1 recall that during a sitting of the Standing Orders Committee - this is not in breach of confidence - the question came up about what we would do, having made the decision. I recall the right honourable member saying: 'I think on these matters members ought to decide for themselves and have a free vote'. I believe this is essential. It is a non-partisan matter over most of the area of the Standing Orders and the procedures of this place, and that is the way it ought to be. What of our present Prime Minister? He said that no paper has been before Cabinet. Apparently no paper has been before anybody so far as he is concerned. 
On the back of the notice paper we see a list of the members of the Standing Orders Committee. The list includes  Mr McMahon.  I presume it is the same  Mr McMahon  who is the Prime Minister of this country. The other members are  Mr Speaker,  the  Chairman  of Committees, the Leader of the House, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Anthony, Mr Bryant, Mr. Drury, Mr Duthie, Mr Scholes, Mr Whitlam.  That is a most powerful group. One would reckon that anything in which they were interested would go with a bang and would take off like a rocket. 
But not on your life; it has been languishing on the notice paper for over 15 months. The Prime Minister said nothing had been before him. The history of the matter is this: The Senate established an effective group of standing committees. The Senate examined the system and started with 2 or 3 committees. A committee of the Senate considered standing committees and its report was circulated as Parliamentary Paper No. 2 of 1970. That is available to the Prime Minister himself. 
In the course of the debate last year, as a result of the deliberations of the Standing Orders Committee, I brought the matter before the House. I moved a motion for the establishment of standing committees and 1 said that a paper had been prepared and circulated to the Standing Orders Committee and to every member of this House including the Prime Minister himself. I forget what rank he held then, it was either Treasurer or Minister for Foreign Affairs. I presume he is on the mailing list. I asked that this paper be printed and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  asked: 
Is this a paper which the honourable member has prepared himself? 
I said: 
No. This has been circulated. It was presented by  Mr Speaker. 

 Mr Speaker said: 
This was a paper circulated previously to all honourable members in my name. The honourable member for Wills in moving his motion is more or less suggesting a system along the same lines as that contained in the report which  1  distributed some time ago. 
The Prime Minister can find that report himself on page 405 of Hansard of 24th August 1970, which I presume is readily available even in the Prime Minister's office, if he has noticed that Parliament is still in session. 
Therefore, I believe that we should suspend the Standing Orders of this House. Perhaps it is possible for the Leader of the House to give us a guarantee that the matter will be brought on for effective discussion, but we should suspend the Standing Orders of the House so that the matter can bs brought on because - I believe - I will not debate the question of committees here - that it is necessary to suspend Standing  Orders so that the Parliament can  discuss its own affairs. The matter must be brought on. 1 believe that the House of Representatives is rapidly becoming a second rate legislature, particularly in relation to the work the Senate is doing. The situation has come to a pretty pass when the Parliament's own affairs can lie on the notice paper for 15 months. Probably if somebody had moved in 1786, if that had been possible, that » fleet of 13 ships be established to colonise Australia, it would still be on the notice paper. I ask honourable members to vote for the suspension of Standing Orders so that the Committee's report, in particular in relation to the establishment of standing committees, can be brought forward for effective discussion and decision. 
There must be few activities in which the Government shows greater insensitivity than in the field of housing. The consistent rise in interest rates over the years, which has been supported by such people as the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  and a series of Treasurers, is a disgrace to the country. The continuing flow of usury- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 

I am not introducing new matter,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, while I disagree with a great deal- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The House divided  (Mr Deputy Speaker - Mr P. E. Lucock) 
The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has tempted me to speak in this debate. I have often taken part in debates on the war service homes scheme. I have had something to do with the War Service Homes Division. I am one of those from the Second World war who had the advantage of this finance. It is a long time since 1 have heard a more shameful departure from the spirit of the legislation than in the Minister's evaluation of the system of war service homes finance. Let us take one or two of the points at issue. First of all lel us deal with the question of the $9,000 loan. It is true that 20 years ago $9,000 would have been an ample loan, but at no stage in the last 20 years has the war service homes finance system been adequate lo bring housing within the reach of many Australians requiring it. That is just one of the facts of life. In Melbourne the average expenditure on a house is now somewhere between $14,000 and $16,000 no matter what sort of house one buys. The average price of housing land is somewhere between $4,000 and $6,000. So almost the minimum price for which one can get a standard home in Melbourne is about $11,000. That is just for the house itself. The result is that no matter what one does one will pay between $14,000 and $16,000 for the average, standard suburban house in which any Australian is entitled to live. 
My colleague from Melbourne Ports points out that it is $20,000 in Sydney. If a person wants a house above normal standard either in size or equipment inside it is will run to $20,000 in Melbourne. There are some of the facts of life. For whom are we making these provisions? We are making them for servicemen. Let us consider the young fellows back from Vietnam. A number of them are totally and permanently incapacitated. Some of them have been conscripted into a lifetime of poverty. How are they ever going to make up the housing gap? They are driven to the housing commission type of housing which, adequate as it is through most of Australia tor what one might call average housing, does, not supply any of the individual requirements of the citizen. When I heard the Minister here this evening speaking as he did I. felt it was time that somebody stood up on a day such as this and denounced him as loud and long as one could do that. I have heard no more shameful use of eco.nomic doctrine as an explanation of a social measure in the 16 years I have been in this House. Moreover, this is the day upon which we passed a resolution of gratitude to the men who went to Vietnam. We know of course the Government's tears of gratitude meant nothing at all and that this is just a political gimmick. Our friend from Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  who was attacking us a while ago in the course of his oration showed that he does not know anything about it. He is completely insensitive to the ex-serviceman along with everybody else. 
What are the principles behind war .service homes finance? First of all, it is not a financial system. It is not based upon economics. It has no relationship in its genesis to the ordinary economic derivatives of public finance. It is, first of all, a reward for people who have served the country in a special way. It has nothing to do with the economic theories of the Minister foi Housing - the shameful Minister lor Housing, let us put it that way. In the other context it is a vote of gratitude, a vote of thanks to the servicemen for the service they gave. This again has nothing to do with the values of interest rates, usury and ordinary financial systems. It has nothing to do with that whatsoever. 
That is right. My colleague from Reid says that the Minister's middle name is Scrooge. I am not surprised that the man cannot understand what it is all about. He belongs to the age group of 41 or 42. He looks a bit older. 
No, I do not think he is quite as old as that. For 20 of the last 30 years Australia has been engaged in warlike operations. For the last 6 or 7 - since 1963 - he has been organising the sending of young Australians to fight in warlike operations and he has had ample opportunities in the last 20 years to sacrifice himself. But of course he has not done that, so he does not understand what it is all about, nor do any of his colleagues on the other side of the House. There are half a dozen of them. I have their names here. They are all in his age group. He is a young man under 50 who has had ample opportunities to prove his patriotism in the last few years. The Minister for Housing has demonstrated here not only that is he no patriot but also that he has no common sense and no sensitivity. I regard his speech this evening as one of the most disgraceful I have heard, particularly on a day like today. 
There is another aspect of war service homes finance to which we ought to turn our attention. In a sense it is a compensation and assistance scheme for people who have made a sacrifice which cannot be measured in monetary terms. There is no way of evaluating what the young man who spent 2 years in the Army and 12 months in Vietnam may have lost and what it may have cost him. There is no way of evaluating what it has cost the man who spent 5 or 6 years in the Services in the last war or 4 or 5 years in the trenches in the First World War, physically, mentally, spiritually and emotionally. So one of the methods by which this country has demonstrated its gratitude, or has attempted to do so, has been the war service homes scheme. So as a piece of, one might say, national gratitude the war service homes scheme is on the statute book to show that Australia means business. Over the years it has been the most generous - T suppose that is the term to apply in this context - form of finance. Its inter est rate is about the lowest and its terms of repayment are about the longest and smallest. But does this really make it the best system? Does it make it the most readily available system in Australia? Let us examine for a moment another stack of suffering citizens, the people of Canberra. 
The people of Canberra, for instance. They also have a good housing system. If the Acting Minister for Primary Industry, my friend from Orbost, who also sends young men to gaol and leaves them there, particularly his own constituents, instead of going to wars himself 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER &lt;Mr Corbett)Order! I think the honourable member should keep to the terms of the Bill instead of criticising the Minister. 
I am talking about servicemen. Perhaps there are other people in the House who do not know what I mean by that. In Canberra we have a very good housing system and it is to the 'credit' of this Government that it has been retained largely untouched. A young person is able to get into a Government house in Canberra - there is a waiting period admittedly - on a minimum deposit. Certainly the interest rate is higher but the repayments and deposit are within his reach. A person can walk into a house in Canberra for somewhere between $500 and $1,000. Is that what we do for the serviceman at Oodnadatta, Orbost or Miles? We do not. The serviceman going into a house provided under the war service homes scheme will need a deposit of between $4,000 and $7,000 no matter where he goes. That is the reason why we have moved for the raising of the loan to $15,000 which ought to be adequate under the Australian system at present. Therefore the propositions that we put before the House are related to 2 things: The facts of life in housing and recognition of the fact that war service homes finance is not a finance system but it is a special recognition accorded to a group of Australians who served. 
We on this side of the House, of course, believe that it is time that this system was expanded to include other people and that we develop a recognisable philosophy of  housing with the object of making available to Australians high quality housing with loans at low interest rates and long term repayments. I believe that is a logical social objective. I am one of those who returned from the last war with nowhere to live, so my wife and I got to work and more or less built most of our home by ourselves. In the end we went into the war service homes system. It was not possible to get into it at the time; it has always been a fairly bureaucratic and restrictive system in this regard. 
I suppose about 90 per cent of the Australian community want homes of their own. They want a home of their own in a place where they want to live. There is no earthly reason why Australia cannot supply it for them. The Minister for Housing supplied in this place this evening figures of fantasy dragged out of the system and said that our scheme would cost an additional $800m a year or $2,000m. I forget the figure he used but it was probably a bit less than the defence vote. But what is the score? It is true that the Government has at its disposal the funds allocated through the Budget system but there is almost unlimited finance available outside governmental loans systems today at exorbitant rates of interest. Bridging finance can be obtained at 131 per cent. 
That is right. Why cannot we pass some legislation to extract this money and place it into the national housing system? lt is true that a good deal of it would be money that people had invested with special sorts of firms, the various hire purchase companies and other financial institutions, at the highest possible rates of interest so that they can live more satisfactorily on their earnings. I believe that it is quite unconscionable to permit this kind of housing finance to exist in this country. There are hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars available in this country at high interest rates for housing. It is our duty to direct the available finances of this country to the people at a reasonable rate of interest. 
I believe that the war service homes finance system ought to be expanded to include all servicemen. I do not believe there is any' justification for the continuation of the demarcation between those who served in a war zone and those who did not. I believe that a person who puts on a uniform, particularly in the regular Services - and this applies also to people who put on a uniform in the citizen forces- has accepted a different kind of responsibility, duty and sacrifice to the community than anybody else has. One would hope, of course, that sacrifice will not be demanded of them but those people who put on a uniform, no matter now humble the rank, no matter how dull the employment, still at some time are readily available to make the supreme sacrifice for the benefit of the community. I think it is little enough for us to expand this system to include all those who put on a uniform. 
We on this side of the House would like to see the system extended to the community at large. I rose to speak in this debate because I was shocked at some of the remarks of the Minister. I was provoked by the remarks of the honourable member for Mitchell. But I wish also to place on record my despair at a system which can be allowed to continue year after year and which is so patently inadequate when it comes to finance. The Minister might be able to use his arithmetic and say: 'In this way home purchasers will eventually pay only $8,000 in interest and in the other way they will pay $10,000'. 
Very well, $18,000. I know that the interest rate is the killer. It makes a substantial difference in a person's standard of living and in the amount of money a person will pay over the period of the loan. As I recall, when 1 did my arithmetic, I found that a change of ( per cent in interest over 20 years means an extra year in repayment, or something to that effect. So interest is a very important factor in housing finance. But I do not believe that is the argument and therefore the interest rate that the Minister talked about is, I believe, irrelevant. If we are talking about the supply of housing to people, it is the accessibility of housing that counts. It is of no use to say to people: 'In 5 years time if you have saved hard enough, if you have sold your car and managed to get a cheap block of land, you will do all right out of the war service homes system. By the time you are 40 you will have saved perhaps  $2,000'.  The essence of a housing contract is accessibility now, when the house is needed. There is nothing like the heartbreak of looking for a house. Tonight the Minister and many of my colleagues opposite - many of whom have had distinguished service for their country's cause and many of whom show sensitivity when they have to face up to individual problems on behalf of their constituents acted in a way which I believe is very sad. Is it not time that, in the most vital element in domestic accord, in achieving happiness and everything else that goes with the quality of life, we should make a house priority No.  1  in the national objectives? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the definition of "Borrower" and inserting in its stead the following definition: - 
-1  accept the fact that to bring in an amendment in this way is a difficult operation. As I see the Act, the amendment and the Bill, it is necessary to redefine what we mean by 'Australian soldier'. That is what we are trying to do. One of the difficulties of our operations in the Committee stage of a Bill is that we have not yet defined the way in which we can do this collectively. It is obvious that in the chamber there is a peace of collective thinking. There have been some members opposite - probably a good number of them - and members on this side who could produce a widened version of a definition of 'Australian soldier'. 
I do not concede any of the points which the Minister for Housing stated about making the. scope of the Bill too wide. But for the purposes of achieving a consensus between ourselves and people opposite I am prepared to go along with some of this and therefore seek a definition of Australian soldier'. I will keep talking for a few minutes to enable someone to get the definition straight. I think that 'Australian soldier' will be defined in this case to include all those who are presently serving, wherever they are, plus all those who have already qualified. As I understand it, that is what we want to do tonight.  
The honourable member for McMillan says it is too wide but there are at least a couple of honourable members on his side of the House who are prepared to say that it is not too wide. What exactly does it mean? During the First World War some  330,000  people served overseas. I presume all those who are still living, perhaps  100,000,  are qualified. In the Second World War I understand that some  560,000  tq  600,000  servicemen in the Australian services served outside Australia and basically they are all qualified. So that in the community there are some  600,000  to  700,000  people qualified by reason of their service in those  2  wars, plus those with service in Korea, on special operations or Vietnam. So it is somewhere in the order of  600,000. 
The honourable member for McMillan referred to Australian serving servicemen and for the moment for this purpose we will include only regulars. I do not approve of that as an exclusion but I will go along with it for this purpose. There are  60,000  to  70,000  personnel in the regular forces at present: So in fact if we widen it we do so by no more than  10  per cent. A large number of those at present in the services, perhaps  15,000.  to  20,000,  may well be qualified because of their operations in Vietnam and so on. So what we are attempting to do. first of all, is to widen the range of ex-servicemen qualified under the War Service Homes Act. I do not believe that the definition of it or the difficulties imposed by the Minister for Housing are valid at all. It is not a different form of philosophy. 
When this kind of legislation was first passed in this House in  1918  the servicemen and a handful of women had been serving, generally speaking, at least  10,000  miles away from Australia. It was not an Australian involvement and,, therefore, it was logical to say that if one served in Australia one was not really in it. That was where it started. But in the Second World War it came nearer home and eventually people who served in the Navy, operating out of Sydney and Brisbane and so on - some did anyhow - although they might not have landed anywhere, were deemed as on operations. I think that was the case in the Air Force. The Army was a little more exclusive. If one served in the Northern Territory one was qualified. 
Honourable members opposite have been saying for years that we face imminent peril. Wherever we live in Australia we are under constant threat. 
Yes. The Russians are coming, the Chinese and the Vietcong are coming and all the rest. The proposition the Opposition is putting forward is that anyone who is in the Services at all is in business, in a different way from a civilian. The honourable member for McMillan shakes his head and it is interesting to note that it did not rattle. The facts are that the person who joins the Services accepts a different quality of citizenship, responsibility and a possible result from anybody else. Therefore, we believe the definition should be expanded. I know that this war service homes system with its definition, as narrow as it is, creates a great deal of heartburn, dissatisfaction and frustration. I know it is of great satisfaction to people when they qualify for a war service home loan. Therefore, I believe that we should resolve this question of definition. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  ingenious as he is at defining all sorts of other things, may well be able to do it. We should ensure  that the definition is made clear in this House. I accept the qualification of the Minister that by scrubbing these words we will exclude all those people who have qualified before but surely it is not outside the wit of this Committee to have produced a definition while I have been on my feet. 
First of all, to deal with the points raised by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  I noticed that . he still has this dual formula university in his mind. There are those decent solid students who get on with their work with their heads down and pass examinations, and there are those mischievous characters with long hair who go out and demonstrate. I think that the honourable member will find that, generally speaking, ali university students are potential demonstrators and they are all potentially hard working students. In fact, the university system is such that it takes from the top of the school system in Australia - I do not like the term 'cream' but certainly some special section of people who are able to handle the situation, lt is still a very narrow group in the community, and it may well be that with our form of university education it will always be so. It is about 4 per cent or 5 per cent of the people in the 17 to 22-year age group. We are speaking about a special group of citizens. I hope that they will always take an active interest in politics. If the 100,000 young people who are at universities exclude themselves from public affairs it is to the great disadvantage of the community. 
I do not expect them to agree with us always. I do not expect them to agree with us after the next election when we are running the country much more effectively than it is now. 1 will be the last to denounce their activities. If there is anything wrong with the Australian community it is the failure of people to participate in politics; it is the failure of people at ail sorts of levels to take an interest in political affairs and accept a political commitment. 
If one of the products of the last few years has been an increasing commitment to political action of young people, particularly those who are going to be leaders in cultural, commercial, industrial and professional life of the community, then it is all to the good. I hope my friend, the honourable member for Ryan, will not discourage it although it is discouraging to him when he finds that nearly everyone who gets a liberal education under his belt and starts to gather the greater wisdom that comes from continued study in life, deserts the Liberal Party. The reason why the Opposition has moved the amendment this evening is not as our friend, the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  might have put it - so that we can have a pleasant ramble around the areas of education - but so that we can exploit the opportunities that this Parliament offers, rarely enough, to debate some of the major issues in this particular field. 
A few months ago the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  produced a very lengthy statement in this House. 1 suppose it was a valuable contribution to conservative educational administrative thought. But what it should have done was to open a major debate in the Parliament. It did not do so and we have to pick it up moment by moment and say something on the question of university education We have been involved in debates here almost since the inception of university education as a Commonwealth responsibility. Up to 10 or 12 years ago the Parliament took little note of education. Our former Prime Minister, the great national leader for reactionary thought, the right honourable  Sir Robert  Menzies, used to pooh-pooh the idea that the Commonwealth Government ought to attend to the matters of education. But by 1959 or 1960 he started to take some interest in the areas of universities. About 1963 he discovered that there were votes in things such as State aid. Suddenly he became a great committer of Commonwealth money and Commonwealth thinking of a qualified sort to the question. The reason why we want the Commonwealth to accept full responsibility for universities is that we believe there is no future in leaving the matter in the State arena. 
The problems are these, as I see them. First of all the States have restricted resources. I might believe that the States are narrow in their interpretation of their authority; that none of the States, whatever the political complexion of their governments, uses the resources of their own banking systems which are at their disposal in any sort of imaginative way; that often they pour their money into things of which I would disapprove anyhow; and that such things as a capital gains tax and other sorts of revenue gathering at their disposal have been ignored. But the facts are that it is unlikely that in the present system or in the foreseeable future the States will have at their disposal large sums of money upon which they can draw for expanding needs in the community. 
The first point that ought to be made and which ought lo be clearly understood is that the States now are so restricted that only the Commonwealth has the expanding resources at its disposal to take up the challenges of the Commonwealth education system. But there are some other things inherent in our education system that can only be challenged by Commonwealth action. With 15 or 16 universities and with tertiary education expanding both vertically and horizontally, as one may put it, the facts are that only by some concerted national action are we going to overcome some of the major difficulties. 
One of these difficulties flows from the elitist concept of university education. When I was young the university was somewhere other people went. One of the contributions of the war was that people who went off to war and came home were put through university in thousands. If there was a revolution in Australian society it was the product of the Commonwealth reconstruction training scheme. To me and to thousands of others the doors of the universities which were closed emphatically in 1939 were opened as widely as they could be in 1946. This, of course, changed the whole social attitude to university education and families such as mine could see that not only people such as the odd one who managed to make the distance for some reason or other - the person who became a teacher and then for professional reasons managed to get into university - received a university education but that a university education became a natural social objective for the whole family. So the elitist concept which still 1 think lies pretty heavily on the minds and consciences - what there are of them - of the people opposite has been discarded by the rest of the community. lt is a logical objective for almost any Australian with a child capable of handling academic activities at all to see the university as the goal. This is exemplified for me by my own electorate. My electorate lies along Sydney Road, up past Royal Parade and past Melbourne University. Up to a few years ago the university doors were closed to most of my constituents. Secondary education was minimal as far as most of them were concerned. Coburg is one such area. I suppose that this suburb makes up one-fiftieth or thereabouts of the metropolitan area of Melbourne, lt has been a substantial suburb for the best part of a century. In 1963 or 1964 there were only some 30 people undertaking matriculation in Coburg. This year there are over 200. lt has been in the Camberwells, the Caulfields and so on of Melbourne that the rise in the demand and aspiration has not been so great. So the change in social attitude means there are so many demands upon university education that the States have no possibility of handling them. It will only be by concerted national action that these demands will be overcome. 
There are past inequalities of education and these are across the board. Women have had less of a fair go than have young men: people in industrial areas have had fewer opportunities than those in nonindustrial areas; people in country districts have had much less access to higher education than those in a city; people in Victoria had much less access to higher education than people in New South Wales; and Aboriginal people have still not achieved the same equality or anywhere near it. So there are continuing past inequalities that flow on into modern society. They can only be challenged when someone with the resources and responsibilities across the nation take them up. 
Then there is past neglect. The university, as I said before, was for the few and therefore no-one bothered much. Melbourne University in 1936 and 1937 was a pleasant cloistered spot set alongside Royal Parade with a pond in which one could throw dissident students and reluctant lecturers. This has gone. Melbourne University has now become almost a great academic factory. This has happened to most of the universities of Australia. But in those days no-one had to worry much. A handful of people went through the university system. It will only be by national action at national level with the resources at our disposal that we will overcome these difficulties. 
Rising aspiration has never been effectively acknowledged. I do not see a university education as a piece of social class elevation. I see it as a natural and logical aspiration of people for their children. Another change is going on at the same time. In recent years 1 have noticed that people are prepared for some of the family not to bother to become university students. I know of one family - a working class family, I suppose one could say, with a skilled tradesman as a parent - of which one son has finished university, one is in university and 2 others are coming up. 
That brings me to another area in respect of which only the Commonwealth can find the answer - that is the area of student support. I believe that this falls into 2 parts. First there is accommodation and secondly there is the matter of allowances - and allowances come into the fees area. It is popular enough to argue that most students do not pay fees - I have the statistics somewhere - but that argument is not very relevant. For the person who is paying the fee it is absolute. The fee for the average family on an ordinary wage in Australia is an almost impossible burden for the family to carry. Therefore, I think it is important as a social exercise that fees be abolished by whatever method we can do it. 
Then there is the question of allowances, and we have not faced this question adequately at all. No honourable member on this side of the House would say that he knows the absolute answer but it is our belief that by the time a person is 17 or 18 years of age he should be beyond depending on the charity of his parents if they are rich or, if they are poor, on the charity of the government: and because of what will happen to that person and what he will do for the community the Government should supply him with an adequate living allowance. We do this for teacher students without any qualification or means test and we do it for hundreds of men who are in the Service academies. They cost an extravagant amount but 1 do not begrudge the money that we spend on them. And we do it in many other areas of the community. Various instrumentalities, private and public, support students very substantially. Again I believe it is a subject to which we ought to turn our earnest attention. 
The other matter I wish to refer to is accommodation. I would think of it as a fruitless exercise to open medical faculties at every university or specialised university faculties. Students should be able to move more freely around the university system in Australia, but at the moment there is completely inadequate university accommodation, and what there is is inclined to be too expensive. We ought to be able to solve this problem. There are 2 other areas to which we should turn our attention. One is the question of external studies and the other is the question of the open university. I will deal with the open university first. The British, a conservative society 1 suppose, but often most imaginative and adventurous in social exercises, have the open university. They originally intended, I believe, to call it the university of the air but now it is called the open university. One of the facts of life is that we will have less use for people as functioning units in society and people will demand more of themselves, developed from their cultural background, the wisdom or whatever it is one gets from higher education. So we have to look at education more from the point of view of oneself and one's personality rather than one's function in society. While we are turning out people as engineers, their engineering capacity and faculty will be a decreasingly important part of their life, and this applies to everybody. It does not matter whether one is a tinker or tailor, soldier or sailor. I suppose the last people who will be working around the clock are members of this Parliament - but that is a self-inflicted wound. 
The facts are that we have to develop an education system to which people have access whether they have the academic qualifications in the first place or not. 
When Britain threw the open university open for applications there were 129,000 inquiries; 43,000 applications were received and 25,000 were accepted. It is my belief that the university system has to become more accessible to the community and that there are large areas of higher education which could be developed by such adventurous and imaginative techniques. Then there is the question of external studies. This is one of the most serious deficiencies in the modern university system. There are countless thousands of people throughout Australia who could benefit from university education and from consistent study in some area or discipline. For instance, studies of foreign languages in this part of the world might be worth while sponsoring. The Australian Broadcasting Commission's Indonesian language course is a credit to the ABC and I hope one day that we will hear some honourable member opposite say something nice about the ABC. I have met people who have learned that they can get along in Indonesia as a result of the ABC course. Progress in these areas - external studies, expansion of the university system, accommodation, student support, removal of the disadvantages and the inequalities in education - can only be achieved by the Commonwealth. We on this side of the House are not mad centralists. I suppose in the Labor movement there is a move towards greater capacity for action in the field than there used to be. We realise that the initiative finally lies here. I hope that honourable members opposite will give serious thought to the principles behind our amendment and that honourable members opposite, who are listening so patiently, at least will give some thought to those principles in such a way that eventually they might get around to acting on them. The Government has only about 300 more days during which it will be able to act upon its own initiative. After that it will have to put up with those matters which we will tackle in a much more imaginative way. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has just demonstrated that far from being a freedom fighter from way back he is simply another case-hardened Party hack. Only a few days ago he indicated that he was prepared to support a resolution of the House which would extend the principle of war service homes to serving servicemen. He indicated that there were some limits to his view - limits which the Opposition accepted and respected - in that, for example, a fellow who had served for only a week in the Citizens Military Forces should be excluded. The Opposition excluded these people from its amendment to suit the honourable member, the amendment then referring only to members of the permanent forces. That is what the Opposition is saying now. But what has the honourable member just said? He said he has had an assurance from the Government. Does anybody say that an assurance from this Government on these matters is worth the paper it is written on? Of course it is not. We have had countless assurances. The honourable member for La Trobe is  chairman  of .the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation Committee. Over the years he has gained for himself an enviable reputation as a fighter for the servicemen and their rights. What is the good of giving these people facilities for housing in 6 months time if they will be leaving the Service in 3 months time after 20 years service in Australia? One of the lessons of politics is: Do it now. This is especially so if what needs to be done has something to do with people's rights. So we must do it now. 
This afternoon, we are offering an opportunity to this Committee to provide a further facility to the serving man. What exactly does this mean? The heart of the honourable member for La Trobe bled for those people whose applications might be held up because more money would be needed to meet our proposal. How much additional money is involved? First, the increase of the maximum war service home loan from $8,000 to $9,000 is insignificant as a contribution to Australia's great housing needs. 
What are the principles that have been argued here? The war service homes system was conceived in 1917 or 1918  -  I think honourable members will find this in the debates of this House - to give those who had served Australia overseas access to housing as a special right because those people had accepted some duty to the community which is not ordinarily accepted by other citizens. That is the first principle. In the First World War, it was logical to believe that this ought to be done for people who had served overseas because, generally speaking, that war was fought 10,000 miles to 12,000 miles from Australia. The situation was different with respect to the Second World War. Nearly 1 million Australians served in our Forces. Of that number approximately 750,000 enlisted for service outside Australia. They were prepared to serve anywhere in the world. By various definitions we have included a large proportion of those who served in the Australian Imperial Forces, in the Royal Australian Navy or in the Royal Australian Air Force among those eligible for war service homes. 
The numbers who have already qualified for war service homes are immense. If 1 remember correctly, between 600,000 and 700,000 ex-service personnel have so qualified. Assistance has been given to approximately 240,000 of them  -  1 think that that was the figure which was quoted last Thursday. There are probably between 300,000 and 400,000 people in our community who have qualified under the war service homes scheme but who have never received this assistance. Those are off the cuff figures. I have not the exact figures here. 
I turn to the question of expanding the system to include permanent members of the Forces. We might have an argument about the definition of 'permanent member of the Forces'. 1 would include national servicemen: honourable members opposite might not. We might take only those people who have enlisted for service in the way in which those who have served in the Navy or the Air Force have done. Those who would qualify in the Navy would total approximately 17,000. In the Air Force, the number entitled to this assistance would be approximately 22,000. I would expect that approximately 20,000 personnel in our Permanent Army would fall into this category. The total number of service personnel eligible would be approximately 60,000. These figures would represent an enlargement of the numbers eligible for war service homes assistance by approximately IS per cent to 20 per cent, and possibly by 10 per cent only. Of that number, how many would apply for a loan next week? A number of them might apply in the next 6 months, if this proposal is developed. I think that this is a logical extension of the system. 
During the last War we expanded the system to include people who had served in Australia in certain specified areas. We included people who were listed under special terms of Service. Since the last World War, this facility has been extended to people who served in Korea and in Malaysia and to those who have or who are serving now in Vietnam. What we suggest is that the scheme should be broadened in the logical way to include those people who have accepted the kind of responsibility that a serviceman accepts to the community. I am completely out of sympathy with the honourable member for La Trobe. I have been here for 16 years or 17 years. I have rarely seen such a miserable example of backsliding as we have seen from him. 1 believe that it is time the citizens of Australia were awakened, particularly those in the electorate of La Trobe aud especially servicemen. The time to demonstrate one's support for a proposal is when one votes here on it. 
What are the assurances of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)?  We might establish a housing system for servicemen. We have been tinkering with the pay and conditions of servicemen ever since I entered this Parliament - ever since the last war, as a matter of fact, when the Regular Army was established. Australia had not had much experience in establishing regular forces of this sort. Therefore, we have not really made a good job of most of it yet. None of the assurances given to the honourable member for La Trobe counts for anything. I doubt whether they count for much in the long term. They certainly do not count for anything in the short term. I believe that, this afternoon, the Committee has an opportunity to extend the war service homes system in a logical way. Two members of the Government Parties indicated to us last week that they would support this amendment. Now, for miserable Party reasons, they are going to back down. 
I am sorry. I withdraw that statement because only one of them has said that he is going to back down. 1 just cannot understand it. If this Parliament means anything it means that when an honourable member stands up and says he will do something he will stick with it. What is wrong with the people on the opposite side that they surrender so easily even on the most minor matters, whether it be in regard to the closure of a debate or anything in this place? Honourable members opposite are continually putting forth to the public the view that on this side of the House there is a monolithic, machine-ridden group and that on their side there is an open-ended, wide-ranging, liberal-minded covey or something. In fact, we have seen a most miserable backing down by a prominent occupant of Government back benchers. 
But that is incidental to this operation. Is there anybody here prepared to go off to some group of ex-servicemen and tell them that he would not support this proposal and give the reasons for not doing so? Of course honourable member will not do that. I believe that the amount of money that would be involved in any particular 12 months period would be relatively small. The average serviceman who is likely to become involved in housing will be in the late stages of his 6-year term. Therefore, I believe that the proposition put forward by the Australian Labor Party is a logical extension of the war service homes system, lt is time that the system was expanded in a more liberal way. I deeply regret that the honourable member for La Trobe has seen fit to back down in this instance. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald 
Cameron) seems to be one of the most spectacular failures of the Queensland education system. Where on earth could he get all the figures through which he wandered and meandered tonight? The Aus-, tralian Labor Party has not produced any scheme which can be costed in the way in which the honourable member suggested. Where on earth he obtained the figure of $4 billion, or whatever the figure was, I do not know. Perhaps he has been studying astronomy. Again, it is the old old story: Where is the money coming from? Well, I suppose we could get it from the Fill account or from various other areas. 
I turn to some of the other things that he mentioned. There is this dreadful thing called centralisation. This is the bogy with which honourable members opposite are able to try to confuse and to confound the situation. The Labor Party wants a national acceptance of responsibility for -education. I do not think the honourable member for Griffith has paid any attention to Australia's education needs at all. He certainly has not paid any attention to the debates in this Parliament. The facts of life are that back in 1963 as a political exercise by a former Australian Prime Minister to gather in a few more votes a scheme to provide Commonwealth assistance for libraries was introduced. I have no time to debate that scheme tonight. Unfortunately, the Parliament has little time to debate these matters, or this part of the Parliament anyhow. The Senate does it better. It has a Standing Committee to look into the matter of education. There is some possibility that at least in the Senate this matter will be examined in some depth. Tonight I will confine - myself to half my ' allotted speaking time so that some of my colleagues on this side of the House may have an opportunity to speak. 
Earlier in this session, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  introduced a quite lengthy statement on Commonwealth aims . and objectives in education. We should have received adequate opportunity to ^debate that statement long since. We thought that this was to be the case during the. debate on these Bills. Now. .we find that. we. are being pressured not to have an adequate debate. I raise this point: Is this concept of the secondary school population which is in this Bill a fair criterion for the development of a library system inside Australian education, particularly inside our schools? 
Now, nobody can visit all the schools, but the facts are that a large number of non-State schools, particularly the nonCatholic ones, have much more adequate libraries than those in the State schools. Perhaps some of the Catholic schools are also well catered for. In other words, there is only one way to approach this subject. We cannot lump all the schools together, but it ought to be within the wit of man and the administrative skills of the Commonwealth to examine each school to see whether a library is needed at a school and how much need be done with respect to it. I support my colleagues on this side of the House who say that the present method is a hit and miss one. It is a case of picking up little bits of education here and there and trying to do something about it - or attempting to do something for political purposes. 
The other point that I wish to make is that, when we read the Minister's second reading speech we see that this is a State aid Bill. The problem in this Parliament, particularly on the other side of the House, on the subject of education is that one would be led to believe that the threequarters of the children of Australia who are in the three-quarters of Australian schools, those conducted, by State governments, did not exist. Every proposal from the other side of the House is directed towards that quarter of the population which sends its children to non-State schools. I believe that this is an important principle. The fact is, no matter how much we may squirm about it, that our responsibility is to the public institutions. This is where most of the public money ought to go. This is where the public responsibility really lies. The Opposition has moved its amendment because it believes, as the Labor.- Party has been saying for some 12 years or 15 years now, that it is only by an acceptance of national responsibility that we will get anywhere in the field of education. 
What I wish to ask tonight, with as much brevity as is desirable in such a situation, is this: What is to be done about education? One may state the proposition thus: Society is changing' rapidly in all kinds of directions; is the school changing? I think the proposition is fair that in fact the school is changing too slowly to keep up with the society for which it now is supposed to be operating. 
I believe that education is under greater challenge now than it has been at any previous time. We have been plodding along in schools for centuries. There is not a great deal of difference between what is happening in most school rooms of Australia now and what happened three or four centuries ago. I suppose that the introduction of printing produced a change in the form of education. Education became participatory and personal in a sort of way that it could not be before the introduction of printing. Now we have changed some things. Instead of teaching Latin in the schools we probably teach Japanese but we probably do so in much the same old way. Instead of teaching religion in the schools now we study social studies; instead of concentrating on mathematics we study biological sciences. But the principles inside the school room and some of the principles which flow through the education system remain much the same. 
There are some areas in which we are trying to produce some kind of scholarly approach. But generally speaking our approach to education is to turn a person out as a function of society. I believe, as one has said here before on a number of occasions, that there is a fundamental change required in our outlook in education because of the effects of social change. Today is in so many ways a different era even from the one in which I was born which is a little over half a century ago but in terms of education and social change that is not a very long time. Leisure is now replacing function as the principal aspect of life. I use the word leisure' as that part of one's life in which one does not have to clock on at work. This, I think, is the great challenge which is facing young people of today in particular. The young man and the young woman who start work now at the age of 20 or thereabouts will, by the time they are 35 or 40, be working probably only 30 hours a week. Most of them probably can expect to spend 5 weeks of the year in relaxation or on holidays. Most of their lives is going to be outside their function in commerce, in industry and in services of life. We must develop education to fit them for this role. 
There is the egalitarian attitude replacing the sort of class acceptance of society. I do not believe that Australia has ever been strictly a class society in the real sense but there is a natural order of things which people accepted. When I left high school in 1932 I did not expect to go to the university. I had hopes that some day something might turn up and that L would go. Of the 88 or 90 students that started in second form with me at Frankston High School as it was I think that only four or five saw it right through to the end of secondary school and that only one or perhaps two of them went on directly to the university. But that is not the way we look at it today. The university and the whole structure of society are available to us all. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I do not like to interrupt the honourable member but 1 ask him to relate his remarks to the Bill which deals with secondary school libraries. 1 remind the honour. able gentleman that this is not a general debate on education. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, an amendment has been moved on behalf of the Opposition and it covers the area of education and the needs of Australian society and Australian education. For Heavens sake, surely education has to do with society if it has to do with anything. The whole world is now replacing the parish as the school room's responsibility. All the communications of the world are being developed so that everyone has access to all kinds of information, and this relates to libraries. I believe that this is one of the problems we face in this House. There is no examination in depth of one of the most fundamental social questions of the time - and that is the education system. There is something wrong with the Parliament which cannot examine this question more thoroughly than we are doing in such a haphazard way tonight. Surely one can talk for a little while on some aspects of education. We on this side of the House have taken the opportunity to expand the areas of debate by way of our amendment because we have not been given the opportunity to do so in a thoroughgoing examination of the whole scheme. 
Inside the school room there has to be fundamental change. Libraries are part of the machinery by which that is to be done. We have to produce a new form of social being; a person who has a great deal more self-reliance in the way that he approaches the whole of his life. We are replacing an ordered society in which things were done for us and things were done to us with a society in which we have to make our decisions for ourselves. We are replacing the acceptable standards of moral behaviour of the last four or five or six centuries with what is known as the permissive socieity, whatever that happens to be. But I do know that such a change throws a much greater dependence upon the customer, the client, the child, the student in school and the ultimate adult and that is what we are discussing here tonight. 
The library system is the basis of it all. A tremendous change has been going on in some schools, and unfortunately in too few particularly in Victoria, ft is interesting that in Victoria, which is basically I suppose in many areas more conservative than some other States, that some radical movements have developed even further. Inside some of our primary and secondary schools in Victoria there has been a greater development of what one might call team teaching, reliance on library services and the resources of the school than I find in any other part of Australia. I believe that it is essential that we develop individual responsibility in the student. No longer can they conic through the school patterned and moulded from desk to desk, from form to form, progressing through the levels of education and being turned out at the end into a society such as the one into which we entered and in which there was a pretty set pattern for our behaviour. One of the things we need is an inquiring mind. This a.cain is where the library is part of the institution. 
Briefly I would like to refer to the student we are trying to turn out, why libraries are important and why I believe the Government's approach to this aspect of education is not totally adequate. As my colleague the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reyonds)  pointed out, there is a whole world of resources which we have to develop such as the use of all kinds of recorded material, the use of visual reproduction methods and matters concerning the school room such as the change  m  architecture and structure and design to produce effective discussion. These matters will have to be looked at because the world is going to be again one in which people will want to participate. One of the great changes in socieity has been the rejection of authority, not so much the rejection of law and order but the rejection of an authoritarian view of society. For example, none of us are going to be kicked around any more; our sons and our daughters are going to be kicked around less than what we would stand ourselves. Socieity will develop only by effective discussion between people. Effective discusson between people will develop only as a result of proper skills being developed inside of the school room. That will be done only by the development of school rooms which are fitted with all of this equipment. 
We need to develop more effective human relations. We have to pattern ourselves to fit with one another and still respect the individual personality. I suppose in the school we have to develop a satisfaction in learning. In order to facilitate the debate 1 will leave the six or seven minutes which are available to me free for someone else. However, before concluding I would like to say that there are great changes going on in the world. The world is under greater threat than it has ever been before. There is more capacity for self-destruction by way of weapons of destruction; environmental destruction is threatening the world; and there is a plague of population. The people who are going to face this situation will be turned out through the schools by a more effective education system. We on this side of the House believe that this will happen only if the Commonwealth with all of its resources accepts the challenge; and the library system is part of that challenge. 
I do not believe that we are approaching education in the right way. My colleague the Minister for Education and Science I think approaches this matter as well as one could expect from a person with his background and his colleagues who are not terribly perceptive and very largely insensitive to the needs of education. But surely it is possible to examine each school, school by school, and see what is needed. I am quite confident that the schools in the electorate of Wills need much more assistance than schools, shall we say, in the electorate of Higgins. Under the present system the position is likely to be reversed. Therefore, this problem will be answered only when we approach it as a national responsibility. For these reasons I accept the Labor Party's amendment. 
1 address my question to the Minister for Defence. We have just heard the Prime Minister tell us that we are developing close, cordial and friendly relations with Indonesia, of which we all would approve. What are the peculiar conditions of Australian defence which require 9 battalions of regular infantry and the consequent continuance of conscription when at the height of confrontation and all the uncertainty of it 10 or 11 years ago we needed only three or four? 
There are 2 matters that I want  to  place before the House for both  of  which honourable  members  should have both an individual and collective concern. The first one concerns the operations  of  American companies in this nation and some  of  the  by-products  that flow from their operations. I want  to  mention 2 companies. One is Delhi International Oil Corporation and the other is Santos, which is also associated with oil exploration and the laying  of  a pipeline from the gas fields in South Australia  to  Adelaide. I want  to  mention the result  of  the operations  of  these companies. Until recently the principal management  of  these companies was in the hands  of  Australians. Most of us would consider that that was a very desirable situation. But one  of  the situations that have developed as a result  of  some  of  our immigration policies is that a man can come here from  America,  take up a position in Australia with one  of  these companies and replace Australians. This is a matter in relation  to  which I hope the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  will give me an answer but I understand that such a person can receive tax free benefits for 4 years. I am not certain of this but this is the understanding that I have of the situation. 
In this case the Australian who has been replaced is a master of business administrate with a good record in public employment and private employment. Suddenly, a few weeks ago he was advised that as from such-and-such a date his position with Delhi would no longer exist. He then went to the other company Santos, and he has just been advised by that company that his position will no longer exist after a certain time. As I understand it there is no suggestion that the person involved is not a highly competent, highly qualified and respected Australian who can get good references from anybody. The facts of life are that a takeover by the Americans means that they also take over the management. One of the interest.ng differences between, say, British management and American management in many of these matters is that the British enter into a partnership at this level with Australians - I presume they do so in other countries - but with the Americans it is a total takeover. 
 I am concerned that our immigration policy allows a person to come here in this situation, to replace a highly skilled Australian and to obtain special benefits in taxation and other things. I believe it is to the disadvantage of Australians, to the disadvantage of Australian industry and I suppose to the disadvantage of the Australian Treasury. I hope that the Minister will look into this matter. The company principally concerned in this is Delhi international Oil Corporation. The person who has come here and taken over the job - I quote this from a newspaper; 1 am not moving into private areas - is  Mr R.  R. Marmor, who has been appointed to the newly created Adelaide-based position of project development manager for Delhi International Oil Corporation. Before moving to Australia he was vice-president of Texas International Petroleum Corporation. The position that had been held by an Australian, a man whom I have known for a long while, was abolished. A new position was created for  Mr Marmor,  and another highly skilled Australian is now on the labour market. I believe that ought not to be tolerated. I suppose I am a bit of a free-wheeler on the question of migration. My inclination is to place as few restrictions as possible upon anybody who comes here. But in these cases the people are not only coming here but are also receiving special benefits. 
I want to raise another matter because I know perfectly well that there will be no opportunity to do so at some other time. I have received a letter from a  Mr Archer  in New Guinea. He has written to me because a desperate situation has occurred on Wuvulu Island in the Wewak area of New Guinea.  Mr Archer  says: 
The place is situated some 140 miles north of Wewak - an isolated island inhabited by some 500 odd Micronesian people - light skinned and straight-haired - very good and intelligent people whom I have known over the years. 
He has been in the Territory for over 40 years. 
Recently this island- of some 3.200 acres- has been sold by one absentee owner . . . to a newly, formed company - registered in Port Moresby- called Wuvulu Holdings Pty Ltd. It is supposed to be of Sydney businessmen mainly but, in reality we are told, is camouflage for some American money (more absentee owners). Of this 3,200 acres, some 2,800 acres is freehold land (under coconut palms) - and this area has been sold to the Wuvulu Holdings company - which leaves the natives with under 300 acres which consists of 2 areas at the extreme western end of the island. With a growing population this is not sufficient for their needs, and they require more land to enable them to spread out - have more garden areas and space to build good villages. Their numbers are increasing a lot now and with the sale taking place it was the duty of the Administration here to see that provision was made for them to have more land - by, purchase and with the help of the Development Bank. But, despite many representations by myself and others - and with much correspondence on their files - the Administration chose to ignore this need. They affirm thai  the  new owners had to comply with certain conditions for the betterment and future welfare of the natives but these benefits have not been defined and, in this remote area, may never com: lo anything. The company has appointed Burns Philp and Co. (Sydney) to act as their agents, we hear, and they, have never considered the welfare of natives - other than the work to be obtained from native labour. These natives are a quiet and shy people - much afraid of authority as vested in the  Kiaps  - and could easily be pressured into agreeing with what is noi in their best interests . . . 
Now,  Sir, this  new company proposes to build cabins ... on the island for well to do tourists to use. lt was published some time ago that it was to be an island paradise. 
An airstrip is about completed now . . . 
I believe that this is a serious abdication of our responsibility to the people of Papua New Guinea. This is a small island of 3,000-odd acres. We should have purchased the lot. It should have been made inalienable as far as local people are concerned. The result is that nine-tenths of the island is going into non-native hands. The people are going to feel the squeeze. There is going to be a continual flow of tourists into the area. The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  ought to have the agreement rescinded. The land should be bought for the native people. We ought to place a stopper immediately upon any further alienation and transfer of leasehold land in Papua New Guinea to anybody other than the people of Papua New Guinea themselves. 
I agree with the sentiments which my friend, the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  has expressed, but I think he is being a little too kind to the Government in this situation. I believe that this Bill, which is designed to grant financial assistance to the States in connection with the welfare and advancement of the Aboriginal people of Australia, is an anachronism in anybody's language. I refer to a discussion which took place in this House backin 1944. It dealt with a referendum which was being conducted at that time.  Dr Evatt  said: 
The inclusion of this paragraph of the Bill -  and  he  was referring to paragraph (xiv) in  the  referendum which was designed to give the  Commonwealth  power to do  something  for  the  people of the Aboriginal race -  is necessary only because of what has become  a  complete anomaly in paragraph (xxxvi) of section 51 of the Constitution. That paragraph gives to this Parliament  power to make  laws with respect to 'the people of any race, other than the Aboriginal race in any State, for whom it is deemed necessary to  make  special laws'. The paragraph in the Bill will have the same effect as an amendment suspending that exception for 5 years. I do not think that any objection has been raised to this paragraph. 
The paragraph was agreed to without division or dissent, and there were some notable revolutionaries in this chamber at that time. There was  Mr Menzies  - now  Sir Robert  Menzies - and there were others. There was the Liberal Party and there was the Country Party - so bless me. Of course, at that time the Country Party bad not achieved the distinction which is given to it today by the honourable member for Mallee  ("Mr Turnbull).  However the right honourable member for Fisher(Sir Charles Adermann) was a member of this Parliament at that time and he agreed to this paragraph. But now, 27 years later, we are still pottering with the principle. Thirty sessions ago we had a discussion on a definite matter of urgent public importance which was raised by the honourable member for Wills - so bless me. The terms of  that definite matter of urgent public   importance  were as follows: 
The failure of the Government to care for the well-being of persons of Aboriginal and part Aboriginal blood by not providing State Governments with sufficient funds and not extending  the  payment of social service benefits to or on behalf of these persons.  A  substantial  debate ensued. The present Governor-General responded. He was at his best at  that  stage. He had this to say: I  should like to congratulate the honourable  member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for the studied, non-partisan way in which he has broached this question. 
Following that speech  Dr Evatt  and  Mr Makin  spoke on behalf of the Australian Labor Party.  Mr Freeth  spoke from the Government side. There was general agreement that something must be done for the 
Aboriginal race. But then, of course, we did not really understand the Aboriginal situation. People like myself who live down in the southern States did not really know what the situation was. Now, 30 sessions later, we are still pottering with the problem. 
I do not consider that what is proposed in this Bill is any kind of an answer to the problem. I do not believe that the Slates will find an answer andI disagree with my friend the honourable member for Brisbane in that regard. I think that he expects a little more from State administrations in this matter than we are ever likely to get. I am not an absolute centralist in this matter. There are ways and means of helping Aborigines. But unless we accept the direct responsibility for them, we will not get the response that we require. As I have said, I believe that this Bill is an anachronism. That is why we have moved an amendment which asks the Parliament and the Commonwealth Government to take the initiative in every field. 
The amount of $9,200,000 provided under this Bill is equivalent to the cost of one F111 aircraft, or, perhaps one F111 less its wings. We are dealing with 100,000 Australians who represent nearly 1 per cent of the population. They comprise some of the most deprived and depressed people in the world. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  shakes his head, but we get the normal amount of no sound. We want something done about Aboriginal housing. The Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  has to do it directly himself. He may deal through some of the State organisations because perhaps that is the way it is done. But we have a Minister for Housing in this place a man who handles or mishandles war service homes. Honourable members opposite in this chamber the other night were giving themselves dislocated shoulders by patting themselves on the back for what they had done for Australian servicemen. They said that they had provided 240.000 war service homes at the most favourable rate of interest that could be obtained. When are we going to tackle the problem concerning Australian Aborigines with the same vigour? 
Then there is the question of Aboriginal unemployment. Last year members of the 
Labor Party's Aboriginal committee, accompanied by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  visited the electorate of Darling. I pay a tribute to the Labor members who take some interest in the Aboriginal citizens in their electorates. My friends the honourable members for Darling, Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  have taken an active interest in the Labor Party's Aboriginal committee, as has the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton).  Two of them have spoken in the debate tonight. But where are the members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party? They are as silent as the grave. 
Tonight we learnt something about unemployment. Because drought conditions were being experienced along the Darling River, in the towns of Bourke, Brewarrina and so on, the Commonwealth supplied drought relief money to local councils to assist them to overcome unemployment problems. The local councils were able to employ Aborigines, so Aborigines had full employment for the first time, so far as one can tell. This had a remarkable effect not only on the morale of the Aborigines but also upon the towns themselves. Tt seemed to me that here was a simple solution to the problems being experienced in many areas which we have continuously overlooked. We will not achieve anything until we treat each Aborigine as an individual, in the same way as we treat other people in Australia. We have the administrative competence to do so. Goodness me. we have had enough experience in dealing with individuals as such. The Commissioner of Taxation can pursue every Australian to the outermost parts of the word in order to get his pound of flesh. He has no difficulty in finding an individual. Honourable members opposite use all their power to pursue any young man who evades national service. But they do not adopt this attitude in trying to solve the problems confronting the Aboriginal people. There are problems concerning Aboriginal training and Aboriginal employment. But the greatest tragedy of all is the situation facing babies and expectant mothers, which has been outlined in this House ad nauseam. 
I do not propose to take my full 20 minutes this evening, not because I have lost interest in the problems facing Aborigines and not because I have lost my verve or my desire to do something about them. Bui in this particular situation most of the direct problems have been outlined by my colleagues, and I am utterly astonished at the absolute silence of honourable members opposite. I would like to know what their constituents will say about this silence. We have to attack all these problems with the utmost vigour. One of the great inflictions upon the Aboriginal people is the Queeusland system. No matter how much it is tinkered with they get nowhere. The system adopted by the Queensland Government and its relevant department departs from the general principles that we must apply to the situation. Therefore, we can do nothing with it and the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts who is now at the table can use all his charm; he has quite a deal of charm. It must be charm that brings him here because it is certainly not a real sensitivity for the problem. I have known the Minister for the 16 or 17 years that we have been members of this House and 1 know that he has taken a continuous interest in Aboriginal affairs. But he has to use all the powers available to the Commonwealth if he wishes to get action. 1 do not fall for the story that the Commonwealth cannot do it or that seeing that the problem in the Cape York peninsula is solved is beyond the wit and skill of a Commonwealth instrumentality. Something like the repatriation system should be developed in this field, and I have said that here often enough before. Somebody might ask: 'Why say it again?' Of course, when one is dealing with slow learners one just has to keep repeating oneself. We will get nowhere unless we take note of the lessons we have learned through the repatriation system. We have to use the State instrumentalities wherever appropriate as we do, for instance, in the soldiers' children education scheme. There are some aspects which no education authority in Australia has attempted to handle. We are facing in the large Aboriginal population problems which the State and non-State authorities have never faced up to, problems such as introducing  a  new culture, a new way  of  life,  a  new way  of  thought and new approaches to people of a different race. We have done very little in the field of research to overcome these difficulties. 
Deeply involved in the psychology of the situation is the question ot land rights. We could debate this at great length, but not one of use can say with certainty exactly what the machinery is by which we could implement such rights. We have rules in our Labor Party platform to which we have given great consideration hut we have to accept the fact that land to the Aborigine^ is more than material possession. The Aborigines are not particularly concerned with ownership in the sense that we use the word. 1 do noi think that view is alien to ali of  us.  There is a continuous outcry throughout the country about the assaults o.t the public domain by miners, governments, authorities and all sorts of people doing this, that and the other, to destroy something which we think, belongs to us. Our environment does not depend solely on ownership. There is something spiritual about one s attitude to land and this applies particularly to the Aboriginal people. Surely it is possible for us to apply ourselves to the concept with spirit and sensitivity rather than with a materialist view of ownership, wilh our Torrens titles, freehold ownership, leasehold and all the rest of it. Why can we not produce some new concept? 
The Minister has Vo use ail hi.s authority, power, charm and whatever else he has and tackle the States. He has to confront them if necessary. The things that are happening to the Aboriginal people are happening now, and one has to only visit western Queenland, New South Wales and other States to find people living in miserable poverty, hardship and deprivation. But poverty is not always the worst of it. It is the utter hopelessness of the situation. I come from the south, but in the 16 or 17 years that I have been a member of this Parliament I have travelled, attended conferences, visited missions and settlements, lived with and talked to people from one end of the continent to the other and 1 know that we have not touched upon the problem at all. Every member of this Parliament has to accept this responsibility. This evening honourable members have agreed to speak for a lesser time than the Standing Orders permit because there is other business to come before the House. We will surrender to this procedure on this occasion. But there is .nothing more important before the House than the heartbreak which the Aboriginal situation is causing throughout Australia. I offer (he Minister all the assistance that we on this side of the House can give. 1 offer bini the assistance of the organisations with which I am involved. I know he will accept, and we have established friendly relationships. But as the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  has pointed out, we have to get closer to the people who are working voluntarily on these problems. 1 have been an active member of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders since its inception, f attended its inaugural meeting in Adelaide 13 years ago. But this organisation is operating on a shoestring; in fact, it has hardly even got shoes. The Council is grateful for the assistance that the Minister has given us on occasions and for his acknowledgement of the work it is doing. I am confident there springs a reasonableness, sympathy and understanding in the community that neither organisations such as this nor the Government have tapped. Let us hope that this is the last of this kind of legislation and that in the next session of this Parliament we will be able to introduce legislation which will bring the whole responsibility for Aboriginal problems into this Parliament. That does not mean that we will stop the States from being active in this field: of course it does nol. lt means that when honourable members travel and find problems of hardship and deprivation they can bring them to this House directly and get direct action. We live in a world of politics which is capable of direct action, and we can get direct action only if the Commonwealth accepts the responsibility that the House has a.greed, without dissent, that it should accept. Unfortunately we had to wait for a referendum in 1944. and in 1967 the people gave almost unanimous consent. Let us gel on with the job. 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  pressed on with a fine flow of irrelevancies despite the Standing Orders and your gentle admonitions. However, I do not suppose we should worry unduly because, unfortunately, like the rest of us, the honourable member for Hume has been given few opportunities by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes! to debate the question of Papua New Guinea. Certainly we have not been able to do so as often it is necessary. The Minister has been remarkably diffident in bringing Bills before the House and allowing statements adequately to be debated. I regret this, f agree with the honourable member for Hume that we are launching or assisting to launch a new nation which will be very important to Australia. I believe thai Papua New Guinea will be just as important to us as is New Zealand and our relationships with Papua New Guinea must be of the same depth and sensitivity as those we have with New Zealand. 
One of the things that surprised me was to hear a member of the Austraiian Country Party talking about anybody as being primitive or backward. How can a member of a political party which believes in hanging and flogging and plural voting, which has produced Bjelke-Petersen and which has rigged the electoral boundaries in order  to  retain its positions in Parliaments talk about anybody else being primitive or backward? WhatI want to talk about is the- 
 Mr Speaker,  with some diffidence of course, 1 place before you that we are discussing constitutional questions and the honourable member for Hume spoke rather disparagingly about the 2.5 million people of Papua New Guinea. I do not like the use of the terms 'bnckward' and 'primitive'. That is all. 
You are quite right,  Mr Speaker.  I am quite sure that the Premier of Queensland is quite irrelevant to any decent constitutional system and so 1 will not talk about that. 
We are discussing the opportunity that has been offered to Australia to help launch Papua New Guinea into a completely new era. We are changing the ministerial system. The House of Assembly has just been dissolved for a new set of elections and from that, we hope, will develop a more self-reliant or independent governmental system. The relationships of that country with Australia will be close. I should like to discuss the matters which were raised by my friend, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  on the question of Ministers, ministerial positions and our own relations with them. 1 come to the vexed question of a parliament choosing its executive. I believe we have a long way to go in this Parliament. We have allowed ourselves to be afflicted with a system which  flowed  down the centuries and we have not really taken up the question of how Parliament should manage a country. I am not going to be critical about this because the people of Papua New Guinea have developed the system themselves. They made the recommendations and we are fulfilling their ov/n requirements, except in one matter where the position was left open. On that point we have, 1 believe, chosen  a  restrictive  approach. 
I should like to discuss the question of Ministers and the executive authority that this Government will vest in one section of the Parliament. I have a good deal of faith in the parliamentary sy.stem as we operate it -that is. that the executive is a part of the Parliament and it responds to it and is responsive from it. The parliamentary system that we have and the executive part of the system, in the sense that we use the term 'Westminster system', is, I think, operating as well in Australia as in any other part of the world. I know that the question of a presidential system has been raised on many occasions, but as my friend the honourable member for Fremantle has pointed out, it is very difficult to find one which has not gone the way of all dictatorships. 
The launching of the new parliamentary or governmental system is a delicate matter. But the point we raise refers to the residual powers that will lie with the Minister for External Territories. I do not believe that all these powers are desirable, nor do I believe they are necessary. This matter concerns the choosing of Ministers in Papua New Guinea. My friend the Minister for External Territories will say: But of course we will take the advice of the Administrator who will take the advice of some of the authorities there'. ButI do not think that is good enough. We have to develop a system in Papua New Goinea in which the ministerial system becomes a part of the Parliament itself and not an authority flowing from some external force. This is why we have chosen to challenge clause 10 of the Bill. 
As has been pointed out, the Bill is actually the product of the request of the members of the House of Assembly. But I see in this small area the last shred of feudalism with which we are inflicted in this place. That is, the Government is in fact an appointed body. Eventually the members of the Government are appointed from the House by some outside body. There is the ancient fiction of the Crown and so on. I am not anti-monarchistic in this matter, but there is this view that the Government is something which is different from the Parliament itself, and I do not agree with it. I believe that it belongs to the past. 
It is true that Papua New Guinea will have a fair step to go in its Parliament to end up with the same level of administrative competence as one might expect in a Parliament such as this one. But, as I say, I see here some of the last shreds of feudalism, or some of the habits which we have developed ourselves. I do not believe that we ought to inflict the people of Papua New Guinea with the same attitudes that we ourselves hold. Here we have this one group of 10 Ministers out of a total of 17 Ministers comprising the Administrator's Executive Council. There is this question of the selection of the Ministers. Again, I do not think that we ought to accept the view, nor should we inflict upon the people of Papua New Guinea the view, that these Ministers ought to be nominated by some outside body or even nominated by somebody else who speaks on the advice of one particular area. 
I concede that there are great difficulties in this question of the selection of Ministers. In Switzerland, as I understand it, the house of parliament in fact elects its 7 Ministers of State - on the last occasion on which I looked it up there were 7 major Ministers of State - but Switzerland has a totally different society so far as numbers are concerned. There is so much decentralisation of its authority through the cantons and so on that probably 7 Ministers of State are an adequate number in that country. Why have we chosen 10 Ministers out of a total of 17 Ministers in Papua New Guinea to comprise the Administration's Executive Council? Have we examined the position thoroughly and the managerial task which those Ministers will have to face? Are 17 Ministers sufficient to face up to the task of administering a country the size of New Zealand? Is the inner group structured in such a way that it will be able to perform both its functions as a vital policy-making apparatus and its ministerial functions? 
One of the problems, as I see it, in Papua New Guinea stems from the tremendous difficulties created by geography, by lack of communications and by the incapacity of people to operate an administrative system because they are not literate in the language of the Administration, and so on. I am not sure that we have applied enough science, one might say, or study to this question of the actual administrative set-up operating outside the Parliament in Papua New Guinea. I understand that the people of the Solomon Islands have developed a system of executive committees, and that may well be a better operative system in Papua New Guinea. I am not sure that the question has been thoroughly examined. 
I have read some of the findings of the House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development. I think that the Committee went about its business as thoroughly as anybody is likely to do in this situation. But we may well be handing on to the people of Papua New Guinea some sorts of petrified parliamentary attitudes which are terribly difficult to change. We only have to look inside our own system to see how difficult it is to change anything. Even the simple meeting hours of this Parliament are very difficult to change. Therefore, I hope that we will not inflict upon the people of Papua New Guinea certain attitudes just because we have developed those attitudes or just because, back in the early 1950s, a former Prime Minister said: 'We will have 2 groups, the Cabinet and the Ministry'. 
Are we going to inflict upon the people of Papua New Guinea a set of people who comprise 2 levels of authority - a kind of hierarchical structure? I hope that we can somehow write into the system of Papua New Guinea an ease of change of the system. Perhaps the Minister might be able to give us some information in this regard. Perhaps it is almost moving beyond our competence now to do some of these things. These are the matters that concern me. 
Therefore, this evening we propose to move an amendment to clause 10 of the Bill. One of the matters that interests me is the number of members of the House of Assembly who will comprise a quorum. I notice that 36 members will comprise a quorum, which will be a fraction more than one-third of the total number of members of the House. Yet in this House, against my strong objections, an attempt is being made to reduce the size of the quorum. I believe in high quorums for legislative bodies. Another thing which I think we ought to discourage - and there will be all sorts of disagreements about the statement I am about to make - is the development of a 2-party system; the idea that inevitably there must be one lot of people who have that view and another lot of people - approximately an equal number - who have another view, and that there is an inevitable difference of opinion in this sort of situation. 
The 2-party system has become so embedded in our system that it is difficult to imagine anything other than it. But I cannot see that inside the society in Papua New Guinea there is any need to develop the kind of conflicts and differences which exist between us here. The economy of Papua New Guinea is not such as to produce very deep divisions between the people on that ground. Of course, there is always the chance that they will be developed on a regional or some other basis. Therefore, a lot of advantages could flow from some kind of party relationship across the board which has a relation to some kind of philosophy. Probably the Pangu Party is the one Party which is getting closest to what I am suggesting. 
It might well be possible to develop a system in Papua New Guinea in which there is a basic unity of political thought throughout the whole country. Therefore, all we can do tonight, I expect, is to make whatever amendments we think are necessary in this matter and give our blessing to the people of Papua New Guinea on the venture upon which they are embarking. They start with more difficulties than were experienced by many other countries which have made a mess of things. But they start, I agree, with some of the machinery laid down, and as the honourable member for Hume has pointed out, in a better position, perhaps, than other countries have enjoyed. 
Before I resume my seat I want to make one point quite clear. The honourable member for Hume accused the honourable member for Fremantle and other honourable members on this side of the House of paternalism because we had said we are setting out some pattern of ministerial selection for the people of Papua New Guinea. What we are doing is offering an alternative pattern of ministerial section to the one which the Minister for External Territories has chosen. The Minister, as is the way of Ministers in this Parliament, has chosen a pattern which he himself runs. We are offering the people of Papua New Guinea the opportunity to make the selection themselves. I think it is very important that we make sure that the authority of the Parliament lies firmly in the House of Assembly; that the House of Assembly has control over its ministry, that it looks as though it has control over it and that it believes that it has control over it and that the Ministers themselves accept this relationship. 
 I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  As I see it, the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  cannot possibly undertake the nomination of Ministers. First of all, I do not like the principle. I do not like the idea of nominations of this sort with one individual having power over another, particularly in an elective system which is basically a system of equality in which all the people elected to the place are basically equal with equal responsibilities. I do not even think that the Minister is acting in this situation as if he were prime minister. He is acting as if he were the Crown itself thousands of miles away handing down the clay tablets or whatever it is he is handing down, and saying 'There it is'. 
How can the Minister possibly make this selection? If the Minister is not to make the selection, who is to make it? In all probability it will be the Administrator. I have no objection to the Administrator except that he is not qualified to select between members of Parliament. The Minister may say that it will be the  Chairman  of the Council; if it is to be the ViceChairman, we will nominate him. I would object to that. We must be able to do better than this. We do not live any longer in a world of nominations. The Minister might stand and say that it is difference of philosophy. What nonsense! There is a different look at the world between what he wants to operate and what we propose. 
There are other ways of solving the problem than the ones we suggest, but at least we propose that the responsibility should lie with the members of the House of Assembly itself. Any departure from that principle is a breach of our trust with the people of Papua New Guinea and particularly the House of Assembly. I was particularly disappointed with the Minister's answer. The other thing that I cannot sea is how the original  17  Ministers are to be selected. Are they to be nominated? ? 
They are actually selected by election of the House of Assembly. I think that 'that is an advance. It is one which we ought to introduce into this Parliament. That stopped the Minister in his tracks. This is an interesting thing, actually. I have been here for some  32  or  33  sessions. I have seen these operations going on in Papua New Guinea with regard to the Holy Writ that we apply there or perhaps to the Legislative Council in the Northern Territory. We are likely to run things a little more democratically in some respects in Papua New Guinea. For instance the voting age in municipal council elections is  18.  The electoral system designed in the first instance foi Papua New Guinea is much more democratic than the one inflicted upon us here. Perish the thought', says the Minister to the idea of a ministry elected by the members of the Parliament. He would not have a bar of it here. 
That is not philosophy; it is simply bad habit that the Government has got into. How on earth can the Minister call this a philosophy when he is the bloke choosing them? 
That is right. The Minister might claim this is a leadership principle like the fuehrerprinzip of unhappy memory that was buried in the bunkers of Berlin. It is not even that. What are the Minister's qualifications to make this kind of choice? 
Yes. He has a number of qualifications. He is very good at choosing horses. But we are concerned with people. The suggestion is that because of a long series of accidents - his selection as the candidate for Mcpherson; his election to this Parliament; and his selection, by whatever method, for the Ministry - he if suddenly endowed with the kind of wisdom that allows him to select from unknown people 2,000 miles away. Much as I respect and admire the honourable gentleman, conservative as he is - he is not quite my favourite reactionary, but I put him in the list  -  1 believe that he just is not fitted to do this. So his advisers will do it. Who are his advisers? To whom do they answer directly? To nobody. I do not believe that it is a simple difference of philosophy. I think it is a failure to apply ourselves to the principles to which we ought to be applying ourselves and allowing the writ of free decision, equality and parliamentary responsibility to run in Papua New Guinea. Even if it does not run here yet, we will fix that after the next election. 
Another point I would like to make is in regard to this idea of the inner 10. I take it that is referred to in the report. Why is it that the Committee or someone has decided that the 17 should not operate as a Cabinet, if we are to inflict such a thing upon them? Why is it that we must have this inner group? If this is in the report what are the reasons for this recommendation? Why should not the 17 operate in the sense of which we are thinking, not exactly a cabinet but basically under a cabinet system? Why must we have the inner and the outer? 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Did the Secretary of his Department write to the I'apua New Guinea Administration in January of this year suggesting that it was well beyond time that the Administration sold all its local officers housing to the inhabitants and that part of all rent paid should be used to reduce the purchase price of these homes; if so, what progress has been made in this matter and when will all local officers get the chance to buy the accommodation that they now occupy. 
ls it a fact that many officers in Port Moresby, Lae, Madang and Rabaul are now housed by the Housing Commission and paying an economic rent for these houses; if so, when will all local officers and expatriates be required to pay economic rents for their housing. 
Is it also a fact that the Housing Commission is soon to assume total responsibility for the housing of local officers in all urban centres in the Territory: 
If so, (a) when will this happen and (b) will the Administration ensure that all local officers get the immediate opportunity to purchase their current homes and be credited with part of the rent they have been paying for years. 
Does the Housing Commission intend to develop complete commercial and industrial facilities in the housing estates of Port Moresby and Lae. 
If so, will consideration be given to (a)  giving preference in the allocation of shops and facilities to Papuans and New Guineans and (b)  the development of the complete shop or factory which could be rented for the first few years and then purchased through a loan financed by the Housing Commission or the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank. . 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the Flinders University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can alford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority - 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships. 
Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability. 
Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable Mouse make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 

 - Mr Speaker, nothing demonstrates the incompetence of this Government to run the country more than the way it handles this House. Privilege takes precedence over everything else. The notice paper carries on the front page 'Privilege to take precedence1. Standing order 96 states that a matter of privilege at any time arising shall, until disposed of, take precedence. This report has been hanging around for some time. We came into the House today with the understanding that this was a matter to be dealt wilh early today so as to get it out of the road. This matter concerns not only the House but also, of course, the people who have been under consideration I believe that it demonstrates exactly the incompetence of this Government in the way that it handles everything, that we are going to defer the only matter in which, I think, the Parliament takes precedence over the Govern ment. You might say: 'Well,  it is  only for a few hours'. We do not know how many hours, because day after day the order of the Parliament  is  continually confused by chance statements from the Government, by the way it handles them, by not having legislation ready, and so on. I just lodge my objection to treating parliamentary matters in this way. Anything that has to do with the Parliament is deferred. Anything that has to do with the pottering of the Government gets thrown into the ring in some ad hoc fashion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to refer to the section relating to the Department of Foreign Affairs, international development and emergency relief for Pakistan refugees. We can see that there is an amount of $200,000 but it is not particularised as to what we are going to do with it. I think we should take this opportunity to try to make the Government do a little more about the situation. Honourable members and members of the community in general are aware of the desperate situation in Pakistan and the miserable efforts made by this Government towards the alleviation of that situation. We have done very little indeed in a situation such as the world has been confronted with on very few occasions. Some 10 million people are refugees on the borders of India and Pakistan. Those10 million people are deprived of the barest necessities of life. All that we have been able to offer over the last few months, and in a very dilatory and haphazard fashion, is a small amount of money, some aid, and lately some blankets. 
It is on behalf of this cause that I would like to place before the House the total lack of vision, initiative and enterprise with which this Government is endowed or not endowed.It claims to be a private enterprise government. It claims to be one which has initiative and enterprise, which things make the world work. Nobody has ever been more inert and nobody has ever been more insensitive to human needs. We were told by a senior member of the Australian diplomatic service a few weeks ago that what the people needed most was blankets. This is logical enough. In the Press statement issued by the Department of Foreign Affairs we were informed that it was urgent that we get blankets to them, so we sent off a couple of Boeings loaded with blankets. We sent off about 35,000 blankets to ameliorate the misery of some 10 million people. 
What is the situation in Australia? Over the last few months we have spent millions acquiring wool. We have some of the best wool in the world. On the general standard of production the Australian spinning, knitting and weaving industry produces about the world's best blankets. This industry can produce them by the thousands. We have 700,000 or more bales of wool in store. We have paid for all that wool, as far as I can tell. The experts have told me that we use about 6 lb of greasy wool to a blanket. I have no way of checking on this, but that is a rough estimate. So every bale of wool could produce perhaps 50 or 60 blankets. We could use 200,000 bales just for the manufacture of blankets for the people of Pakistan. 
I place this before the House as a matter to which we ought to turn our attention. It is not just a question of solving one problem for ourselves. It is a question of showing the kind of initiative in the world that is needed, and I only use that as the barest example. What I am concerned about is the total diplomatic inactivity of the Australian Government, its foreign affairs and its diplomatic service in the present situation. The situation has changed dramatically for the worse. In a few weeks time it may well be that a new nation will be born - Bangla Desh. It has been born already but it has not been recognised by Australia. I have no doubt that if that country had been taken over by the most Fascist, reactionary group of colonels this side of the North Pole Australia would have recognised it within 30 seconds flat, as we did the Greek Government. However, within a few months time it is likely to be recognised by a number of nations and it will be the beginning of a new nation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power .meme 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore. humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its na ural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and menial strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
No. This question arises under standing order 64 which provides that a member may explain matters of a personal nature. I refer to a matter which arose in the House. During the course of question time, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  asked for the distribution of certain material from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I interjected because, as a member of the Library Committee, I was concerned that the Library's functions were' misunderstood. The Library circulates or has available the transcripts to which the honourable member referred in relation to the programmes Monday Conference' and 'Guest of Honour'. Indeed, the transcript of 'Monday Conference' is circulated to honourable members. 1 am deeply grieved that honourable members have not noticed this fact. I apologise to you,  Mr Speaker,  for having breached the Standing Orders on this occasion, but I was provoked. 
1 second the motion to suspend the Standing Orders. I do so for this reason. The House is about to go into recess for 7 or 8 weeks. We have mct for, 1 think, 150 days in the last 780 days. There have been continuous misuses of the majority control of this Parliament by the Ministry on every significant issue over the last few months, and one of the significant issues is the establishment of the national film and television training school. This debate has now been pushed right into limbo so that it will never be raised again.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the situation is this: This Parliament is the forum of the nation. It can operate as a forum only if there is public debate on public issues. One of the important public issues of the moment is the film school. We have heard continual remarks from the other side of the House. There has been a misuse of question time. The only way in which the Opposition can put its point of view and the only way in which the honourable member for Oxley can put his point of view is to speak in this House and therefore it is essential that he be permitted to speak. The only way he can be permitted to speak now is to suspend the Standing Orders. The only machinery available to the Opposition in this context is to suspend the Standing Orders - these Standing Orders which have been misused continuously by honourable members on the other side, particularly today, so that the Government can have its say and the Opposition can be silenced. 
We must suspend the Standing Orders so that the most suppressed Opposition in a comparable parliament anywhere in what one might call the Western or parliamentary world can be heard. The honourable member for Oxley, in this instance, represents 50 per cent of the people of Australia and therefore he should be heard. We want to know whether the Minister is afraid to speak. Why is it that be has not been heard in this instance? However, the essential question is whether the Opposition voice is to be heard or whether it is to be silenced, and the only way it can be heard is through suspension of the Standing Orders. It is a disgrace to the parliamentary system that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the Ministry, particularly the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz),  should continually misuse their majority control to silence us, and we must take every opportunity to ensure that our voice is heard, lt is important that the honourable member Ibr Oxley be heard. I do not know why the honourable members opposite, in particular the Minister, arc continually scuttling for cover. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
-! should like to emphasise the points that my friend, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has placed before the House. As I see it, an important principle is involved. It is not just the question that a small number of Australian soldiers are to be left in South Vietnam. Australian soldiers are not for lease, loan or sale. Australian soldiers are not available to carry out other people's diplomatic or political tasks. That is the principle that is before the House and that is the one which the Government fails to acknowledge. I believe that there is great dissatisfaction in Australia at the continuing location of Australian troops in this area. This has been a long and traumatic experience for the whole nation and one in which the Labor Party was involved right from the beginning in resisting the presence of Australian troops in South Vietnam. The Government has reluctantly at last come to the right decision to withdraw Australian troops from Vietnam but we thought it would be a complete withdrawal from the area. However, that is not to be the case. 
It may be said that the people of Cambodia are entitled to the kind of support that the Government's decision would give them. I believe they are entitled to support as a people. Like my colleague, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, 1 have serious doubts about the Government and I will say a few words about that in a moment. But the facts are that it is only in the diplomatic field that I believe that Australia can effect useful results in this area. I believe that from the very beginning we prejudiced our strongest position in this matter by committing ourselves to military action. While we have any troups in the area, nobody will listen to us as a neutral, impartial and objective country. It will only be by our appearing to be neutral, impartial and objective and on the side of humanity that we will mobilise world public opinion on behalf of the Khmer people. With the accession of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations, there is a totally different diplomatic scenario. All of the people and all the forces involved are available to discuss the situation around the tabic in the international forum. By failing to use the diplomatic initiative, I think we are abdicating our responsibilities to the Australian public. 
I have a deep feeling for the people of the Khmer Republic - the Cambodian people. They are being overrun in somebody else's war. and therefore the Opposition resents the continuing commitment of Australian troops to this area. We believe that it removes us from the possibility of effective diplomatic initiative. On the other hand, I think we . should be doing something to relieve the physical suffering of the people in that area. We should be doing more in this regard. I know from my visit last year that the people were suffering severely, the hospitals were overcrowded, there was a shortage of beds, materials and doctors and hundreds of civilians were accommodated on the floors of the hospitals. We are doing very little about this situation in Cambodia. 1 personally hold the view that people have the right to defend themselves, and this was the reason for the position which I took last year and which in general I still sustain. But I believe it is little enough that the people will be able to achieve. By some means or other we have to entice the Vietnamese people, the North Vietnamese and the South Vietnamese and the governments of both countries, to leave Laos and Cambodia, and this will happen only as a result of extraordinary pressure being exerted by the people who support either side. We should be trying to get the South Vietnamese to the conference table. We should be trying to get the Russians to exert what influence they can. We should be trying to get other countries, such as Canada, to influence the Chinese to influence the North Vietnamese, and that is the only answer. 1 just want to place on record my disappointment at the collapse of parliamentary democracy - what there was of it, although it had the basis of a democratic system - in Cambodia. This Government ought to be attempting to convince the Lon Nol Government that it must revert to the democratic procedures which were part of the Cambodian situation. My friend the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  who visited Cambodia earlier this year has reported to me that the people at that time were becoming deeply concerned about the situation in Cambodia. 1 believe that we have a role to play in this part of the world that has nothing whatsoever to do with a military commitment, lt is with deep despondency that we note the Thai situation and the collapse of the parliamentary system in Thailand, meagre as it was. This Government has been silent about this question. I believe that we should exert all possible pressure and influence on the Thai Government in order to restore the meagre parliamentary system which existed in that country. In this instance I suppose our Vietnam com mitment is a symbol of our inadequacy and our false approach. We have always gone for the military commitment when in fact the best that Australia could do would be to help the people themselves. This goes for the people of Pakistan and the suffering refugees who, more than ever, will become the responsibility of the world community. 
Earlier tonight I perhaps put the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  and my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in an embarrassing position in this discussion. I believe that it is bad parliamentary practice to produce in this House an important document on defence or anything else that has to do with our associations and international commitments in this part of the world in such a way that it cannot be adequately discussed. One of the weaknesses which have appeared in the last few years has been the inadequate time allowed for the discussion of public affairs. Discussion of foreign affairs and defence matters has been most inadequately treated. That was one of the reasons why I put on what might be termed a demonstration in this chamber a little while ago, and I can give honourable members the assurance that while I am in this place I will sustain that view. 
None of us can abdicate his responsibility. Honourable members opposite cannot abdicate their responsibilities by leaving matters to the Ministers. They have very definite personal responsibilities to the people whom they represent, and they have definite personal reponsibilities because they are a part of the Australian community. The continual silence on issues such as this, when ministerial statements are made, I believe, is an abdication of our parliamentary responsibility. So I want to place on record my disapproval of the procedure. I support the view of the Australian Labor Party, that this is a dangerous and unacceptable precedent which we are following in the training of Cambodian troops. I only hope that no Australian life is sacrificed thereby. It is again one of the issues before the public that Australian soldiers are not for sale, lease or loan, and we cannot commit people to war without losing lives. In this instance not one drop of Australian blood should be shed. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What Australian industries, primary and secondary, have lower production costs than any other major producer. 
That was a rather odd speech. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  wears a couple of hats. We all know that he is the Caesar of 
Canberra. We have now seen him displaying himself in the role of the Pontius Pilate of the Northern Territory and of the Aborigines of the rest of Australia, wiping his hands absolutely of any real responsibility for them. The first thing I want to refute is the nonsense of the Red baiting with which the Minister introduced his speech. I felt that this was disgraceful, lt was unbecoming. I did not know that this was the type of exercise in which he would indulge. In fact, after question time today 1 had some warm thoughts about him for his attitude to the people across the road in the Aboriginal embassy. But he had the cheek to say in this House that those who were sponsoring Aboriginal rights and who were campaigning for land rights, for social advancement and for a change in the social and economic position of the Aboriginal people of Australia were inspired or led by communists and that it was some sort of deep, dark, Red plot - if that is not a contradiction in colours. 
Let us look at the situation in this Parliament. I have here before me a copy of Hansard of 9th May 1957. 1 do not know where the Minister was in 1957, but obviously he was not reading the papers, because on that date - 1 had been here for some 18 months - I moved that the House should discuss as a matter of public importance the position of the Aboriginal  people  of Australia. Some of us who have been in this House for a long while have kept up this running commentary here for 14 or 15 years. My friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has been doing so for some 20 years now. The Minister might have a great deal of power at his disposal but he is very short on history. He says that those who sponsor land rights for the Aboriginal people do not know what they are talking about and that they are under Red dominion. Is that the way he would talk about George IK, that notable revolutionary of the 18th century? The Minister should take hold of a history book and see what George III said to the people of northern America, and what instructions the Admiralty gave to Phillip and Cook and to the people who settled South Australia. I have never heard such nonsense. The Minister has skirted the whole situation. 
One of the most significant things in recent times has been the establishment of the Aboriginal embassy opposite Parliament House. I agree with the Minister that it has been done with a proper respect for the situation; it is peaceful; it is causing no trouble. There is an acceptance of the sort of morality of the situation. But what is the situation? Across the road from Parliament House in the full glare of the publicity of the Press, open to the gaze of the countless thousands of Australians who come here, a number of Aboriginal people have established themselves, in one of the most original demonstrations that we have had for some time in any political field, and they are still there. They have not been shifted. This is a remarkable advance. When 1 moved that motion back in 1957, 14 years ago, they would not have been there for 5 minutes. They would have been off the ground. There was no possibility of their being treated in the way they are being treated today. The great change in the last 14 or 15 years has not been produced by the actions of governments, missions or anybody else. It has been produced by the creation of forums, at which the Aboriginal people can speak, in the organisations in the fields to which the Minister referred with scant respect.. I have been closely associated with some of them. In all of the 150 years before that, nobody had created an atmosphere in which the Aborigines could speak with a free voice, with an equal voice or with self respect. 
The situation has now been created in which Aborigines are joining the Australian community. That is not divisiveness. To stand up and speak for your rights as a free Australian is not division. The people who live on political divisiveness are the honourable members opposite. The Aborigines who step into the community to assert their rights, to show what they stand for and to speak in their own right are speaking as part of the real Australian community. The interesting thing to me is the difference in the treatment of the people across the road and of the people 2,000 miles away in Yirrkala. When they are in the way they are shifted. They are out of sight. They cannot be protected by the public gaze. The Minister for the Interior and the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  have been patting themselves on the back. 
They even needed an extension to do it - not an extension of their arms, but an extension of time. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that the Government was going to create an effective and respected place within the Australian society for the Aboriginal people. He said that they were going to have equal access, that their culture would be preserved, and so on. What exactly do we mean by an equal and effective place? It is all right for the Minister to talk about equality and about putting people into the community with an equal identity. That is absolute nonsense unless you produce the social, political and economic conditions in which equality can prosper. It does not matter whether they live in the distance or in the cities. Assimilation, identity and rights have nothing to do with geography. They are a state of mind. In the last 160 or 170 years we have done everything to create for the Aboriginal people a state of mind whereby they do not feel identified with the Australian community. Very few of the steps that this Government has taken over the last few years have done anything much about that. 
The Government says that it is going to develop a balanced strategy' in collaboration with the States. Nothing could be more fatal. Over most of Australia there is no possibility of getting- effective collaboration with the States for the advancement of the Aboriginal people. Here and there in every State - whether it has a Labor or a Liberal government - there will be some kind of effective advancement, but the situation has been so bad for so long and so steeped in conservatism and paternalism that the existing situations in each State are not going to change. That is why countless people campaigned for 10 years to have the referendum which gave this Parliament the power to act for the Aboriginal people. Our complaint today is that the effective power and responsibility placed in this Government is not being exercised. We are not the only ones who are dissatisfied. What grim irony it was that the Prime Minister should announce on Australia Day the string of cliches which he called an announcement of advancement and future action. Nobody was satisfied. The Aboriginal people are not satisfied. They cannot understand it. 
Nor can anybody else. I quote what Professor Stanner had to say. There surely can be no more reputable commentator than he on the Aboriginal situation. He said: 
The recent statement of Commonwealth policy towards the Aborigines was not based on direct consultations with them, was directed as much towards a European as an Aboriginal public, and was couched in words that, to a considerable extent must have passed over the heads even of English-speaking Aborigines. 
He pointed out that the sentences and the circumlocution made it very difficult for anybody to understand what the Government was getting at. He made another point which is relevant because both the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and the Minister for the Interior referred to the Yirrkala people. Professor Stanner said: 
The Yirrkala people can now get a lease of part of Arnhem Land to serve all their passions o'f life (provided we first approve) for up to 50 years. Nabalco- 
Australians in excelsis, the Swiss aluminium company - 
. in the same area already has a lease foi a particular purpose for up to 84 years. Why the difference? 
He also mentioned that the Yirrkala people will have to pay a minimum rent. What, rent does Nabalco pay? I have had something to do with this question, and it had nothing to do with communists or anything else. Back in 1963 a petition from the people of Yirrkala was presented in this Parliament. The situation became a cause celebre. ] appeared in a protest demonstration in the court in Darwin in the first instance, 1 was challenged in this House. The right honourable gentleman who is now the Governor-General of Australia wanted me to be removed from a select committee because I did so. There were no Reds about it anywhere. Countless people in Australia are concerned with the whole issue. 
I do not have time to deal with the Government's achievements. There are some. It is true thai the Government accepts some responsibility in the Northern Territory. I want to deal with some of the things that are not achievements. First of all there is the question of land rights, it is not a question of freehold, leasehold or anything else. It is a spiritual concept. This is an error we are all likely to make. It is difficult for us all. We are bound up in the materialist society to which we belong but we all have some kind of philosophical concept about land and other things. Let somebody try to dig for uranium or aluminium under the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Let somebody try to shift one of the great churches in Australia. Let somebody try to start knocking this place down. Most Australians would object. It is a spiritual concept. It is not a property or materialist view. It would not be a bad idea if the Minister, new to this place as he is, took hold of the evidence that was given to us in the case of (he Yirrkala people and had a look at the evidence of the Rev. Edgar Wells. 1 think the words he used on that occasion were: They get a spiritual refreshment from the land. 
What we have to do - and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  demonstrated some of the steps that we can start with - is to adopt a new concept about this. I do not know how it could be defined in law. I know it is a totally different concept from the one in which we normally believe. Therefore the land issue is not anything to do with the communists. It has nothing to do with facists, the Irish Republican Army or the Vietcong. It has something to do with the fundamental principle by which we approach people. I would recommend to honourable members an article written by myself some years ago in a journal on religious education. In that article all the necessary quotations can be found on the attitude to land rights adopted over 2 centuries ago by the British Government. Governor Phillip was to conciliate their affections. James Cook was to treat them likewise. The people in North America, from which the general principles of North American legislation flow, were to be dealt with severely if they damaged Indian rights. This is part of the principles of behaviour even of the most aggressive European towards Aboriginal people all over the world and this reflects our attitude. 
What is the situation now? The Commonwealth has an absolute and unchallenged authority and almost unlimited resources in the Northern Territory. I have only a few minutes left in this debate and I will not take up the time of the House by asking for an extension of time. But perhaps it would be worth while for honourable members to go to the Parliamentary 
Library just as I did myself for a few minutes so as to get an idea from the newspapers of some of the conditions as they apply at present in the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory is our responsibility. The Minister does not have to gird up his loins, mount his charger and swoop down upon Bjelke-Petersen or do anything dangerous like that. He does not have to challenge Bolte at the top of Spring Street or take on Askin. He only has to exercise the power that is in his absolute control. Honourable members should read what was said in the Press on 12th October 1971 about a hospital in the Northern Territory. The article reads: 
In a hospital treatment room alive with flies, babies' bottles were washed without sterilisation in (he same sink . . 
Another newspaper heading reads 'Dogs Before Children'. This is in the year 1972. The article reads: 
Aboriginal children in Alice Springs are searching rubbish bins to find food, an alderman said yesterday. 
Another newspaper heading reads 'Anger at Child Death Figures'. The article under that heading stated that the odds against an Aboriginal child reaching maturity were 6 to 1. Compare that with the community in which we live. This is a community in which 40 years ago we almost achieved the world's best figures in infant mortality and today we have the world's highest mortality rate for the world's most ancient people. Another newspaper heading dated 29th January reads 'Houses in city "not fit for any human" '. Another heading reads Aboriginal plight shown in city study'. Another heading referring to Western Australia reads 'Pig Sty Conditions at Reserve'. On 18th November 1971 an article in the Press was headed 'Citizens in the Dust'. It is all there in the newspaper cuttings - education, health, welfare and social advancement. Honourable members can talk their heads off but nobody can be equal unless they feel equal. Nobody in the community can feel equal unless the economic conditions behind them and the Government resources placed at their disposal arc equal. 
We have been in the business here for some 14 or 15 years. None of us on this side of the House claim to be more moral than anybody else. We do not need the reports. We only have to travel and open our eyes to see for ourselves. I would say that the Aboriginal people of Australia, living in one of the world's most affluent countries and one in which generally speaking the administration over large areas of public activity is first class, live under the most miserable conditions of any people in any similar situation anywhere. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
This, of course, is not an argument about bus fares at all. It is a question of free education; it is a question of whether the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is prepared to support for the people of Canberra the system that is applicable to his own children, wherever he comes from, up beyond the black stump. I think this place is Moree. Free education is the matter before the House, lt is nonsense for the Minister to say that it is essential in this circumstance to increase from 2c to 5c the fare in Canberra for school children in order to raise another $70,000 or $80,000 to balance the Australian Budget. What nonsense is that? This has nothing to do with it. This is a normal piece of Treasury nonsense and the Minister is just the victim of it. The Minister is the rubber stamp apparently of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  whose children, if they went to a State school in the area where he lives, would also have the benefit of free transport to that school. 
But the irony of the situation is that if my friend the Minister for Education and Science - and I am a broadminded Socialist and am still prepared to call him a friend despite his heretical politics - cared to send his children every day by some bus service from near Hamilton a distance of 10, 15 or 20 miles to the most expensive school in Australia, he would get the transport free. But this does not apply to the citizenry of Canberra. I do not believe that this is a question of bus transport; it is a question of free education. The Minister for the Interior, of course, waves the magic wand at wage rises. Everything is the responsibility of that filthy fellow, the worker, who demands to be paid for what he does! It is not anything of the sort. 
What exactly has happened? The Department of the Interior supplies the buses. It charges the Department of Education and Science for the service; the amount I think, is 72c a mile. I do not know whether that is a reasonable charge per mile for buses in the Australian Capital Territory. I presume that this amount has been worked out on a slide rule in the Treasury with a proper allowance made for amortisation, for a high interest rate and for all of the other overheads and nonsense. I do not know what the costs are in Victoria for a Tramways Board bus. Speaking from memory I think that the cost is below 72c per mile. So the system here is loaded with some mythical figure dredged out of the depths of the Treasury somewhere, passed on to the Minister for Education and Science and then adopted by the Minister for the Interior. 
We should reject out of hand the operation here before us. I believe that what we are discussing comes to the heart of the matter - the question of the government of the Australian Capital Territory. I suppose it is by chance almost that a regulation such as this is noted as it goes before the House. In normal circumstances we get a roll of paper delivered to our offices in which there is the memorandum and the regulation. It is a fluke if someone has his eye upon it. However, we are singularly fortunate that the people of Canberra have the eagle eye of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  upon this regulation. Therefore the regulation has been captured in mid flight and we have taken the opportunity here in the national Parliament to try to protect the people of Canberra against this nonsense. 
The House itself is in a special relationship about this. In a few moments a large number of members of the Government parties will answer the division bells and troop into the chamber. Not more than one-quarter or one-fifth of them will know what the system is about. They will not know that they are making a decision on this matter. What is the decision? One may say: 'Well, 5c a day - what is that? Surely that is a reasonable charge?' But the facts are that the Government is raising the amount from 2c to 5c and I believe that is a change in quality. One may have a token payment of 2c and say: 'Well, they are going to school and they have to part up with some coin which is a token of the system'. But the moment the Government raises the payment to 5c a person who has 3, 4 or 5 children - and families consist of this number of children not only in the ACT but everywhere else in Australia - is affected and hardship is caused in thousands of homes. No-one can deny that. This money to be raised out of the school system is chicken feed. The parents of children are contributing this year perhaps as much as $40,000. As a result of this rise in fares the contribution will be more than $100,000. Some 5,000 parents are involved. 
I believe this is a fair example of the eccentric nature of the financial arrangements of this country. The rise in fares is 150 per cent. It has been a long time since the workers who drive buses have received a pay rise of 150 per cent. As I have said, I believe that this proposal should be rejected. What is the situation elsewhere? As I understand it any child who travels more than one mile to school in New South Wales - and perhaps the Minister has built a special school in the A.C.T. to cater for the Hunt family - is carried free. Is that correct or not? 
Yes. 
Yes, that is right- the Minister admits it. 
That is right. Of course, there are apparently no Country Party voters here. It has been the tradition in New South Wales for a long, long while, as it has been in Canberra. As I remember, going back to my own school days which are in the fairly dim and distant past, we received so much a mile if we lived more than 3 miles from our school. It is part of the established Australian system that free education includes transport of childTen to school. I believe that is the issue before us. What is the difference between the cost of the school building, the cost of teachers' salaries and the cost of transport of children to school? Once children live beyond a reasonable walking distance to school, transport is an integral part of the school service. 
I believe that the Parliament ought to disallow this Ordinance and these Regulations out of hand. I believe that it is our duty to supply free transport of children to school. But now I come to the irony of the situation. I wonder whether the Minister for the Interior has taken the trouble to look at the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill which is to come before the chamber for debate. Our colleague, the Minister for Education and Science, has told us that a grant of $34.3m will be made to independent schools this year. That is the sort of money which the Minister talks about in this area. But in this instance we are talking about taking 2c, 3c or 4c out of the pockets of people in the Australian Capital Territory, many of whom can ill afford to pay it. An imbalance will be caused in 2,000 or 3,000 domestic budgets for a miserable $60,000. $70,000 or $80,000 a year. 
My friend the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  pointed out to me that in Tasmania this year an amount of $1,600,000 will be spent on providing transport for school children. I think that Tasmania's population is between 350,000 and 400,000 people. The population of the Australian Capital Territory is approaching 150,000. On a proportional basis I should think that the Government would be prepared to spend approximately $500,000 to transport children to school in the Australian Capital Territory. In fact, that is the approximate cost if the transport were provided free. Therefore, I believe that the Minister for the Interior is following a false pattern in attempting to recoup the cost of the transport of children to school. I believe that the transport of children to school is part of the education system. I believe that the principle which applies throughout most of Australia for thousands of Australian children - that no matter how far they are from a school, transport to the school is provided free - should apply in the Australian Capital Territory. It is part of the established Australian way of doing things, and I believe that this Ordinance and these Regulations ought to be disallowed. 
Question put: 
That the motions  (Mr Enderby's)  be agreed to. 
I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
I want to support the remarks of my friend the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  but really I rise to place before the House - I hope with reasonable brevity - what one might call the philosophy of caution when it comes to tinkering with tariffs. I represent a major industrial area of Australia. Like the electorate of Cunningham it has absorbed in recent years tens of thousands of people from overseas. I know perfectly well that the slightest adjustment' - put that word in inverted commas and speak it softly - is going to cause grave hardship and that unless we accept the philosophy of a planned economy, which seemed to be the burden of the remarks of our colleague the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  we shall cause hardship without any particular profit. 
For instance, the hosiery industry is largely based in the electorate of Wills. This industry depends largely upon migrant labour which has nowhere else to turn. There is nothing that we can do about the readjustment of a Turkish housewife by creating some new industry. Therefore I am sponsoring today a view that we should look very carefully at the whole system before we start tinkering with anything. I do not claim to be an expert in this field. However, I live in the area of politics. I sit in the House and listen to what is said. Over the last few years I have noted certain things. There is a consistent attack upon primary industry, lt is unduly subsidised. It would be better to let wool go and import something from somewhere else.' 
That is right. I am not sponsoring this view; I am quoting what I hear. It would probably be better to import our wheat requirements from the Argentine, or Canada, or from somewhere else. I have no doubt that we could get our sugar more cheaply from Cuba. I have no doubt that we could be able to get bananas from somewhere else such as from one of the banana republics, although we are rapidly approaching that category ourselves. As I run down the various sections of primary industry I find that it ought not to be supported anywhere. 
I turn now to secondary industry. I listened to my friend from Bradfield, who is very keen on efficiency. There is the question of economy of scale and all the rest of it. Therefore it would be much cheaper to get our cars from Japan. I think that we ought to get our textiles from China. At least this is the theme. I am not sponsoring the idea - I had better not put it that way, because I may be misquoted somewhere. However, might I prognosticate we ought to get our textiles perhaps from China. I suppose that we should get our steel from' some of the new burgeoning plants in India. The result will be that we will be right out of primary industry and right out of secondary industry. We will have a lovely cheap economy. I suppose the solution would be for us all to go to New Zealand and live on reciprocal social services. 
As far as 1 can see such an approach would be nonsense unless we are prepared to approach the total economy. I believe in world events we have come to a change of the quality of the whole situation. I am not too sure that the point that my friend from Cunningham sponsors in regard to trade is going to be a solution. So many parts of the world are becoming selfsufficient in large areas of manufacture. If there is one thing modern man can do, it is making things. He can pour articles out of factories in increasing numbers without the need for human labour. I believe we are approaching a different quality of society which will determine our lives in it by a different set of standards, and as yet we have not faced the issue. Therefore 1 believe that inside the Australian economy we probably have to make a continued series of adjustments to retain a state as close to a self-sufficiency as possible. 
I do not see how we can possibly compete with Chinese industry on the matters that have been quoted here today. It is just impossible. There are all sorts of factors in the Chinese system which make this impossible. The same applies with the Japanese. It is true, that in some areas the Australian manufacturer for some reason or other - and this is a field to which 7 believe a great deal of attention ought to be paid - can compete. The suit I am wearing was made at Preston in Melbourne. 
I will tell the honourable member - well, maybe I will not. However, I tell him that the price was the same as that paid by my colleagues for suits in Hong Kong and Singapore when I was there. In other words, working under Australian conditions, paying award wages, providing necessary factory amenities and subjected to the incapacities imposed by this Government's financial policies, our manufacturers were able to compete with low cost people. My friend from Cunningham implies, I think, that if the Government really got to work on the Broken 
Hill Pty Co. Ltd and decided that it did not need to make multi-million dollar profits, it would be in the same position. I am not so sure whether this would apply to the motor car industry although I believe that with its size and everything else probably it could compete. 
I believe that we have to approach this in a totally different way. We have to look at Australia as generally speaking a largely self-contained community. We have to remember that in the world at large 4 or 5 countries have basically most of the minerals that they need as well as most of the primary production they need, and a manufacturing capacity large and versatile enough to supply most of their needs. I suppose that if we ran across the boards we would have Canada, the United States, and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in that bracket. Who else would there be? 
Sweden does not produce al] of its own food. Sweden does not produce a lot of things it needs. Sweden is highly specialised and I understand that is part of the reason for its efficiency. 
So there are values we have to bring to bear. Again, we are quoting here today the question of efficiency. What exactly do we mean by efficiency? I do not know exactly what it means to have an efficient factory. Strangely enough it is possible to see 2 factories side by side one modernised and up to date and everything else and one tumbled down and with a rather disgraceful set of working conditions, yet both producing goods that look the same when finished and both for about the same price. As I said, I represent a large industrial area. The Government cannot do anything to the tariff system without creating great hardship unless it approaches the total economy. That is why I have risen tonight. 
The other point I want to make is that I am quite convinced that neither the Tariff Board, the members of this Parliament nor manufacturing industry itself knows the situation fully. On occasions I have tried to telephone some of the industries and have asked how they would be affected if the Government started to change the tariff. Not one of them could give me an easy answer and neither could the Chamber of Manufactures. One of the reasons I am speaking tonight is my hope that somebody is listening or that the record will get through to the manufacturers. The least they can do is to educate their own Federal members on their situation. This is very important as far as the Opposition is concerned. The manufacturers of Australia are remarkably dilatory in getting their story across. 1 do not believe that we should abandon the shirt industry. I do not know that there is any advantage in rationalisation. I am quite convinced that it is possible for small concerns to produce things efficiently and with sufficient economy to compete on the market. It would be worthwhile for people to read the speech of my colleague the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  on this matter. There are some things in the community which are no dearer now than they used to be. Clothing is one of them. The other day I went to buy a handsaw. My memory of it is that I paid about the same price as I paid some 15 or 20 years ago. Therefore, I consider that there will have to be a total approach to the Australian economy. This House has not shown a great deal of capacity to undertake that. The Government rejects the theory; the Labor Party, of course, accepts it. Before we start tinkering with any of these systems , we should take a look at the human beings on the end of the system. I think that was the burden of the statement made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Even the honourable member for Bradfield was inclined to think that we ought to do something about human needs first. So I speak briefly this evening on behalf of the countless thousands of people in Australia who, when the Government makes a mistake, are absolutely helpless and are afflicted by incredible hardship. At the present moment that is the fate of thousands of unhappy Australians. 
I am a little surprised that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  did not get the point. I. suppose that all of us in this Parliament have helped to pass legislation concerned with national service, even if some of us have opposed it. At the moment a number of young Australians are being pursued relentlessly and ruthlessly by forces directed by people opposite because they have refused to serve under the National Service Act. Until recently the price of service was the probability of service in Vietnam. My personal policy, from which I will not be diverted by any consideration whatsoever, is that those who pursue them in this way should answer by their own personal service when the opportunity offers. 
From 1951 to about 1953 anybody who was in the eligible age group could have gone to Korea if he felt like it. From 1965 to this year he could have gone to Vietnam. I do not say a word about those who do not participate in the denigration of these young men. But there are several members of this House who have dedicated themselves to the proposition that Australia needed defending and, from the record and from the evidence around us, are of the age group in which people can serve quite satisfactorily and who in my opinion ought to go themselves to defend this country. My own personal view is that what honourable members did or did not do is their own affair. But when they start to cast aspersions upon other people they have to answer for where they were when the guns were really barking. 7 have said consistently that while certain honourable members use their political power to pursue young men in this way I will do everything that my position offers to pour my scorn and contempt upon them, not for anything personal and not for personal cowardice but for the simple immorality of their action. 
I served in the last war. I went when 1 was sent and I came home when I could. My record has been in the Parliamentary Handbook for a long, long while. I was awarded, as a result of long service, a thing called the Australian Efficiency Decoration. This award was recorded in the Gazette'. I told nobody about it. After 5 or 6 weeks the Minister for the Army, a gracious young man as he then was. said: Why have you not told Hansard. At least it ought to be recorded there'. So there it is. I suppose one can say that 'E.D.' stands for exercising discretion, because I am still alive. I participated. I attended as an infantry officer. I happen to have been associated with battlefields and things like that, but I do not claim any particular credit whatsoever. Indeed, one might say that my contribution was insignificant. I think T fired 4 shots. I hope now, having learnt a lot in recent times, that they did not hit anybody. But on the question of where one stands, I believe it is a strong Australian spirit that what you want other people to do you should be prepared to do yourself. 
That is right; you put up or shut up. I agree completely with my colleague from Sturt that national service is one of the major moral issues of the day. While the Government pursues people like young Barry Johnston as ruthlessly and as relentlessly as it is doing, I will do everything in my power to protect him. I know the young man. He teaches in my electorate. I am a member of the public office selection committee, the panel which selected him. He is honourable in every possible way, an idealist and all the good things that most of us would expect from young Australians. He happens to disagree with the people opposite. I will do everything in my power to protect him and I will do everything in my power to show to the Australian community the immorality of the people who are pursuing him. 
It is always a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  because he is one of the more thoughtful members of the Australian Country Party. Of course, that is why he is still on the back bench. But even that is small praise when one listened to his contribution to this debate on education - honourable members may not have gathered from what he said that this was what the debate was about. 
The honourable member talked about the dual system of education. Just what does he mean by that? Does he mean that there is such a fundamental difference between the end product that he and I are different. Somewhere along the line he did go wrong - he ended up in the Country Party. But in general principles, in philosophy, in language :ind in the basic attitudes which honourable members opposite adopt towards society is there any significant difference between the products of the system; is there any significant difference between the culture that is promulgated through them? 
It is utter rubbish to talk in Australia about a dual system of education. One may say that there is a non-system divided into 8, 9 or 10 state or government administrative bodies and goodness knows how many hundreds of non-state administrative bodies. The other question the honourable member asked was: Would we support the independent schools? I personally would support independent schools, if there were any. But none of them is independent any more. I propose to develop that statement directly. I suppose it is reasonable to say that because the honourable member comes from the Country Party he has stressed the money side of education. I had an idea that his own background in education and his attitude to non-state education were that it would probably produce spiritual values that were missing in us pagans who were turned out by the State school system. 
I know that you did not. But  Sir Robert  Menzies once referred to the pagans who came from other schools. 
I will prove it all right. I have been following debates of this kind for the last 20 years. I have listened with great interest to people from the other side of the House. I heard the then Prime Minister - the Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports - when asked whether he would give assistance to non-state schools, say in calm confident but precise and succinct manner tones: 'I have not the constitutional power'. Here now it is holy writ. Honourable members opposite never think any more of the state schools. The honourable member for Maranoa thinks that it is a good thing to sponsor non-state education principally, as far as 1 can tell, because it saves taxpayers' money. I do not believe that is one of the principles on which an education system ought to be based. 
One of the suggestions that I intend to make is that members of this House come with me to visit the schools in the electorate of Wills. As I have pointed out to honourable members before, that electorate is made up of the suburbs of Brunswick and Coburg. There are some 28 State educational institutions in my electorate. This number is made up by a couple of senior technical schools, 2 or 3 normal technical schools, 3 or 4 high schools and 18 or 19 primary schools. There are also, I think, 10 Catholic schools. This is a fairly large educational system. Some of those schools are a disgrace to a civilised society and the environment in which they have to operate. I suggest to all of those honourable members opposite who have been shedding tears here this afternoon in regard to public, non-public, private or non-independent schools which will receive a significant amount of money, that they ought to visit my electorate - and I shall offer them the opportunity by some organised effort to do so - in the near future. If that does not make them suddenly realise that we are setting out upon a dangerous and difficult path in education, nothing will. 
We are discussing 2 Bills. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  does his best. Indeed, I approve of some of the things he does, although he might make errors in technique. However, I think the concept of the constitution of a Commonwealth teaching service, which needs a bit of polishing up, is a good one. The Minister has produced a Bill for independent schools which apparently has nothing to do with State schools because it was the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  who introduced legislation to cover this part of the system. We should remember that we are not discussing today just the per capita grants to non-State schools. These grants are to be raised to $68 per head for pupils attending secondary schools. Every pupil in a non-State school gets from the Victorian Government a grant of $40. This grant is made by a State Government which is so poverty stricken that it cannot do anything about the asphalt, for instance, in the Newlands High School yard; it cannot do anything about the position of most of the schools of Brunswick and Coburg and the outer suburbs of Melbourne; and it cannot put sun blinds on the one-teacher schools in the Mallee. However, the State Government can give $40 a head to every pupil of the schools that produced the people opposite. This assistance runs to tens of thousands of dollars. A combined sum of Si 08 per pupil is granted to each of the non-state schools each year. How can we talk about them being independent, private or in a different system? They are state schools which do not accept the responsibility of the state education system. Assistance to these schools will amount to $34m this year. 
As I have been saying ever since this has become a matter of public debate, we have to devise a new system. I do not believe that we can carry on with this continuing auction for votes. I have listened to our friends opposite. Even our colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  ought to be concerned more with education than with the political points he was using this afternoon. He is concerned not with what goes on in the schoolroom, or even with what sort of schoolroom it is, but only with what goes into the ballot box. I believe this is what bedevils debates on education in this place. The people of Australia should be dismayed to hear the speeches from the people opposite. 
I come to the principle responsibility which seems to me to be the core of the debate. I refer to the question: What are the areas of responsibility? There is public responsibility. Let us examine the State or government school system. It is a long way from the areas of control or administration - I would rather use the word 'administration' - in which we have found no solution. 
We are not even sure of the direction that education in Australia should take. However, this is the way 1 would look at a public institution. First of all, there is a public responsibility which it accepts. Secondly, there is public control. Thirdly, there is public accountability and, fourthly, it all winds up with what one might call the parliamentary principle - that people who expend public moneys shall account for it publicly and accept public responsibility. What do I mean by that? I have here great sheets of paper from the 'Australian'. When the 'Australian' is short of material it wries up fifth form type essays on the great - I suppose that is what you would call them - schools of Australia. Significantly they are all ones that are not run by governments. In one of these articles, a waiting list is mentioned. What does that mean? Can the taxpayer who is supplying this $34m get his children into Canberra Grammar? If he turns up here tomorrow, with his 3 or 4 children, can he get them into Canberra Grammar? Honourable members should get on the phone and find out. They should ring half a dozen private schools and see which ones will accept pupils just like that. Having surrendered to the fact that after all, they would have to end up like the rest of us and send their children to a State school, they would turn up and knock on the door, and the State schools probably would say: 'Yes, we are full, but come in'. There is a totally different public responsibility involved with private schools and I cannot see how honourable members opposite can continue with the theme that they have used. This is such a different area of public responsibility that the provision of $34m to the schools cannot be justified on these grounds. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is to provide benefits to areas of need. This has been scoffed at by honourable members opposite although that is the way they look at it in respect of nearly every social question. That covers point one. 
Then, there is the question of public control. I would be the first to admit that the Minister for Education and Science is attempting to find a solution to the Canberra situation. Here is a great opportunity for experiment in Canberra - control by the community and the participation by the community in the school. I do not know whether there has ben a satisfactory solution to this problem anywhere in the world, because if there is too close an identification of parents on the education side, professional dissatisfaction probably is produced. If it is run as I am afraid the State school systems of Australia are run, and as I think a good number of non-State schools are run - by remote control - the public finally opts out. We must find some answer to this problem. Honourable members can be certain that none of these private schools has any sort of public control or public responsibility. They certainly have no public accountability for the $34m that is being allotted to them. I believe that that is the principle we must face up to. 
When the next Budget is presented, will there be another subvention of public funds? Will the $68m rise to $80m because we are getting close to an election? At about election time, the pressures will build up. People will be knocking on the doors of honourable members opposite, and they will be knocking on ours too, and they will ask: 'What are you going to do for us?' 
There will be pressures on the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  if he still is the Prime Minister at that stage, and he probably will say: 'We will make it $90m or $100m!. We must stop the auction. We must adopt some principle. I think it has become a public scandal. This is the issue which is now before us because we are disposing of sums of money which are significant in any context. My colleague the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  nominated the amount that these schools will receive. If they have 500 pupils, they will receive $34,000 or thereabouts per annum from the Commonwealth. In Victoria, they are provided with $20,000 from the State Government. Then, there is provision for a science block and in the list can be found amounts of $30,000, $60,000 and, in subsequent years, amounts of $15,000, $20,000 and $17,000. Let honourable members examine the list and see for themselves. As I have said, they are not private independent non-State schools anymore. They are State schools, but they are not accepting public responsibility. 
What is a private school? There is no such animal. There are one or two in Australia. There are some schools which, through misfortune, have to support their children practically out of their own private funds, but it is false to say that these schools are private schools. Of what are they independent? Are they independent of university directed education? There is not too much of that. I have visited many of them. In some ways, they are independent of some of the bureaucratic inhibitions that State education in Australia has produced and so, to this extent, I think that they do make a contribution which, unfortunately, is isolated inside their walls. The State systems of Australia have been totally inhibited in regard to controversial issues over the last few years. I believe that one of the big contributions the moratorium movement made to Australia was to break open the schools and enable the discussion of controversial issues to take place inside them. The areas of greatest inhibition in the past have not been the so-called independent schools but, unfortunately, the State schools and so I agree that to that extent there is an area inside ehe private school system which is admirable and which ought to be expanded through the system. However, they are not really independent. 
How diverse are the private schools? Well, they might have better gardens but when I visit the schools the students all turn out in their uniforms. Very few of them, as far as I know, have forsworn uniforms. I am  chairman  of one of the high schools in my electorate, the advisory council, as it is called. It has much less authority than it should have, and one of the points that I think honourable members should consider is how public control and public participation can be injected into education. It is an adventurous, spirited school. I would not be surprised if, despite the rather meagre facilities that it has and the rather austere environment in which it operates, it is not producing a more adventurous spirit inside the school about the educational principle than is produced almost anywhere else. It is significant that, despite the conservatism of the Victorian community, I think that this is happening more in Victoria, in isolated cases, than anywhere else. That school had quite a large number df students sitting for their matriculation examination last year. I am not one of those competitive people who believe that the examination results are the test of education but 70 per cent of them passed their matriculation. This was one of the highest pass rates in the State. So, I suppose one must admit in this case that the actual school environment is not always what produces the results. I believe that those students are entitled to a better school environment and that the teachers at the school are entitled to better support. I have not seen any indication of any sympathy or understanding from honourable members opposite that that should be the case. 
However, that has diverted me from the question of diversity. I do not believe that the present non-State schools of Australia are supplying diversity, except as an alternative place in which education can be obtained. Their diversity is a myth. Some of them offer a wider area of elective subjects but this situation is increasing over large areas of the State education system too. After all, each child can have only one set of education at a time. Perhaps that is applying a diversity of management, and that is something to which we should turn our attention. When we talk about education we should turn our minds to those things which are the deficiencies of the Australian education system and upon which we should be launching the assault. Neither the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill, which will provide chicken feed to the State schools or the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill from which large sums eventually will flow to the non-State schools make an attack upon what I think are the most serious deficiencies in the Australian education system. My friend, the honourable member for Barton, mentioned pre-school education. Then, there is the besetting question of inequalities. We have been discussing this for long enough, goodness knows. Are we not basically dedicated to what might be called an equalised community? This does not mean that we all will be turned out of the same mould. It does not mean we will all look the same and have the same things. But at least the public facilities at the disposal of the community ought to be equal as between individuals, and this is where we come in. 
Again, I make the point that at some stage honourable members should visit schools in the deprived areas of Melbourne. 1 just take for an example 2 or 3 of them. A few weeks ago, the Minister for Education and Science visited several schools in Brunswick. First of all, there is the Princes Hill High School, which was destroyed by fire about 2 years ago. It is unbelievable that that building has not been replaced. As somebody from another school recently described it. it now looks like a bomb site and yet some 1,000 young Australians from this district must receive the benefit of an education. However, these areas are deprived and depressed in another way. They are areas to which a great number of migrants to Australia have settled. The conditions under which people must be taught are impossible. There is a multitude of languages amongst the students. I believe this Bill makes no attack upon the major problem of inequality or any of the other problems inside the Australian educational system. It is conservatism. There is an inadequate supply of teachers and an inadequate environment in most of the schools. It is only mounting inequality upon inequality. 
I think it was the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  who mentioned my 2 senatorial colleagues on the Senate Committee -  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Milliner  - and the minority report which they presented. I just inject this thought at the moment: They presented a minority report in which they stated that they could not see that there was any necessity for a separate Catholic teaching education system. I must say - without having given the matter a great deal of thought but after having read through their remarks and browsed through the report - that I agree. I do not believe that it is an advantage to the educational system of Australia to have tertiary education at this level isolated inside either a religious or any other kind of definition. I believe that, generally speaking, this proposition has been rejected throughout Australia in the establishment of any type of religious university or any institution of that sort at the tertiary level, and particularly amongst the teachers. It is important that the teachers should be trained together; it is important that people who are to teach in the various schools should train together. Therefore, to that extent I defend my colleagues in the Senate. 
Just to wind up this point and to remind honourable members opposite of what we are debating, I take some pride in the fact that honourable members opposite are prepared to speak so eloquently and so often in education debates. I remember that 10 or 12 years ago we on this side of the House were continually denounced for bringing State matters into this place. If we have got honourable members opposite interested in education, even in a dilatory way, it is pleasing to note. 
That is right. While honourable members opposite are at it, they can turn to the Australian register of schools and look at the Clyde girls school which, I think, is at Woodend. My friend the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  referred to this school the other night. There are 140 pupils in the school which is situated on 172 acres. I think that the school received a science laboratories grant of $30,000  -  it is a battler, you know. As a result of that, there was an 800 per cent increase in the number of children attending science classes at the school. There was an increase from 1 to 8 in the number of children attending science classes at the leaving and matriculation levels. I do not think that is public education, I do not think that is state aid, and I do not think that it has anything to do with education. I think that it is a public scandal. One can look at the register and see the fees paid at almost every public school or non-state school in Australia. The fees are $570 at the Clyde school, $951 at the Geelong Grammar school and $700 at the Haileybury school. We must develop a formula. We should, perhaps, invite non-state schools into the system by introducing some sort of a treaty for each one based upon fees or no fees, public control, public accountability and acceptance of whoever turns up at them. But no longer can we continue this farce of calling schools independent or calling private schools which receive literally tens of thousands of dollars of public funds every year to spend however they will. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
In 410 A.D. or thereabouts the Romans withdrew from Britain and honourable members opposite have never got over it. When are they going to grow up? I heard several interesting things from the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder). 
That is the point. That happened over 1,500 years ago and ever since people like honourable members opposite have confused military garrisons with changes in political structures. This is the nonsense they are inflicting upon us now. I thought I had not heard correctly when the honourable member for the Northern Territory said that Indonesia had been placing its faith in the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. Perhaps I did not catch what he said. I presume that he knows that Indonesia is not even a member of that operational force which he holds in high regard. Let us take another point raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He said that the Malaysians are threatened, but he did no* say by whom. It is by the downward thrust of Communism. 
Is the honourable member saying that they are threatened by the Chinese? 
But as I understand it, it is the policy of his Government not to interfere in internal conflicts or to have anything to do with border troubles. What the honourable member for the Northern Territory is saying is that Malaysia is threatened. After examining the geography of the area, one asks: By whom? Is it Burma? I do not suppose so. Is it Thailand? No, because they are buddies. Perhaps it is China. So this man of great military distinction puts in the area a squadron or so of the Royal Australian Air Force and a battalion or so of Australian soldiers to stop the Chinese. I do not know whether that is supposed to be a contribution to strategic studies or just a contribution to strategic folly. The facts are that honourable members opposite are talking nonsense and they know it. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  who moved the motion we are debating, thought he could gain some kudos for himself by attacking the  Deputy 

 Chairman of the Committee to which he belongs. The point is that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  has done Australia great service because he speaks with the authority of a great deal of experience in the field. He speaks as a man who reports accurately what he has heard. He speaks as a man who has spoken with and has been listened to by the highly placed in all these nations. The honourable member himself has told me that  Dr Malik  of Indonesia expressed the view that he had no opinion one way or the other or any great concern for the withdrawal of Australian troops from the area. The honourable member for St George has, of course, exposed the nonsense of the people opposite. It has been claimed that problems have been raised because of public statements made by members of my Party. Nothing could be worse than the statements made by  Senator Sim  or by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  himself. I do not need to elaborate. 
What are the duties of an Australian member of Parliament when he is overseas? The Government is not Australia. It is the duty of the honourable member for St George and each one of us who travels overseas to ensure that the nonsense that passes for a foreign policy, which has been perpetrated by this Government for the last 20 years, is shown up to the people of the world as the nonsense that it is, and that it does not express the view of the people of Australia. I turn to another point. Both the honourable member for the Northern Territory and the finest flower of chivalry, the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley),  spoke about SEATO acting to protect the freedom of Thailand and the Philippines. In neither of those countries is there much freedom. It is certainly vanishing rapidly in Thailand. Of course, SEATO now is not even a paper tiger as it has even run out of paper. 
Who takes part in SEATO? Now it is only Thailand. The honourable member opposite harped on one of the themes used by honourable members opposite for the last 20 years - put our men and our money where our mouths are. What a dreadful statement from an able-bodied young man who has sat here for so long and has cheered all the other fellows when they were going away. The real problem of the people of Malaysia and Singapore is that they cannot take the Australian Government seriously. They know that all the circumstances of the last 20 years have shown up the eccentricities of our policy; that our Vietnam policy on which we squandered so many lives and so much treasure did not mean a thing when it came to the crunch and the Americans were going home; that our China policy did not mean a thing when  President  Nixon changed his course. The people of Singapore and Malaysia can be assured only that perhaps they can get some commitment from us by our having a physical presence on the spot. The error of my friends opposite is to regard the physical presence of soldiery as the only viable form of expression of support, lt is the garrison myth. 
That is the point I made at the beginnig of my speech, lt belongs to the dim and distant past. No longer can we rely upon soldiers to keep the natives in order. One has only to talk to people in Malaysia to learn that white foreign soldiers, as my friend the honourable member for St George said, are counter-productive there. 1 recall being told when I was last in Malaysia that when the Australian forces drive through the country areas they have to be very careful. There is a great deal of racism in that part of the world and it is expressed in many parts through an anti-white attitude. For most people in that part of the world white soldiers are an expression of everything that is bad. 
This debate is not about the speeches of the honourable member for St George. It is about forward defence. That brings me to the question: What do we mean by that expression? Do we mean that honourable members opposite really care about Malaysians and Singaporeans? What does forward defence of Australia means? It means that we will fight our battles on Malaysian and Singaporean soil. It is said that it is better to fight them there than to fight them here. The people who will be sacrificed, of course, will be Singaporeans and Malaysians. I do no believe that they fall for that. I believe that they see through it. It is both immoral and strategic folly. 
Over the last few years we have heard a great deal about the threat in the Indian 
Ocean. We place Australian troops 2,500 miles or 3,000 miles from our shores. We place them beyond Indonesia, our closest foreign neighbour. If there were a conflict, what would be the likely attitude of Indonesia? Indonesia almost certainly would insist on being neutral in most instances, and therefore Australia would not get the right to over-fly Indonesia. It would therefore be necessary to go around through the Indian Ocean which, I understand from honourable members opposite, is teeming with hostile, mischievous and aggressive Russian submarines and shipping. That is supposed to be strategy. I believe it is folly. 
On the military count, and on the social count of what kind of influence to bring to bear on people in another part of the world, it is absolute folly for Australian forces to be placed beyond Australian shores. 1 believe that that is a very sound philosophy. I think it would benefit honourable members opposite to get hold of details of the military forces of the world and to see which countries actually place soldiers beyond their own borders. The Russians do, of course, as do the Americans. The British do, here and there, but very few of the 130 nations of the world regard placing their soldiers elsewhere than within their own frontiers as a reasonable proposition. Unfortunately we still adhere to part of the gunboat philosophy. We have to change our system from being militarily oriented to the commonsense view that the Malaysians themselves are expounding. I have here an article containing a statement by Tan Sri M. Ghazali Bin Shafie, Minister with Special Functions and Minister of Information for Malaysia. Speaking on the neutralisation of South East Asia he said: 
Individual countries in the region must respect one another's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and not participate in activities likely to directly or indirectly threaten the security of another. 
But another point that he makes - and there are many of them - is that all foreign powers should be excluded from the region. Of course, we on this side of the House believe that that is a fundamental consideration and that the only way we can guarantee our own peaceful future is to try to bring neutrality to the region. But we cannot bring neutrality by placing soldiers there, Then we build upon the affinities we have with so many of these countries, There is no future in such propositions as the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. It never was a goer. It is not a useful device at all and now is not a serious proposition whatsoever. What we want to see is diplomatic initiatives based upon the fact that Australia can be a mutual and friendly partner with any country no matter what its government and no matter what its racial structure. But we cannot do this with soldiers. Therefore, we on this side of the House say that the first point at issue is that no Australian soldier will be sacrificed in anybody else's battles. Secondly, Australia's operations in South East Asia must be based upon the fundamental proposition that man canand will be a peaceful animal given proper diplomatic encouragement. 
This is one occasion on which one, in a very qualified, modified, quiet and modest way can issue some congratulations to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In fact, here is an almost new operation and that has happened so rarely that one can only be pleased that at least the concept has arrived. However, I think my colleague the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  described the way members of the Opposition feel about this Bill. We are disappointed in it. I believe that when I say that, I express the view of all those people who are involved in the teaching services, particularly in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. As far as one can determine, they are equally disappointed and are also concerned. 
This is a very complicated measure. It may well be simple enough to design a piece of legislation such as this. However, on our side of the House, there is an education committee which started to examine this legislation the night it was introduced and as time went on it became more apparent that there were problems in it which we found difficult to resolve without further consultation. I hope that the Committee stages of the Bill will be held over until some more mature consideration can be given to some parts of it. I speak now as one who has spent some  20  years in the Victorian teaching service and who, along with my colleagues, has retained fairly close contact with the teaching services of Australia. While the concept of this legislation is admirable we believeand I believe we are supported in this by those who are likely to be the customers or the clients or the victims, call them what you will, of this legislation - in that view. 
Of course, there are some comments that one should make about this legislation. The history of the Commonwealth's activities in education shows some characteristics which I feel are implicit in this Bill. First of all, the Commonwealth has come late, reluctantly and diffidently to the business of education. Fifteen years ago, when one spoke about education in this place, he would be told it was a State matter and that it was no concern of this Government. The right honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies said that he had no constitutional power to give aid to independent schools. So, as time has gone on, we have done a little here and there, but never anything properly. I do not believe that this Bill is the correct measure either. We have been launched on universities. The Government has finally accepted total responsibility for universities. The Commonwealth provides grants to the States for education in a hit and miss way. It drops things in here or there principally, it seems to me, when it feels that there should be some support given to the non-State school systems. The granting of State aid seems to have been designed to influence the ballot box rather than being concerned about education itself. 
So, the Commonwealth Government has produced a patchwork of educational activities and I think that in a way this Bill is part of that patchwork. It has its advantages as a new concept and as a new idea, although I suppose there is not much new about it. The Commonwealth simply has accepted the responsibility to its teachers that it should have accepted long ago. It seems to me that this legislation shows some of the unfortunate deficiencies of the Commonwealth Public Service Act married to the New South Wales teaching service. 
We do not condemn the Bill out of hand. Not every clause is bad. But I believe that some of the principles in it will produce extreme dissatisfaction. It is true that the service will perhaps be small in numbers and therefore the dissatisfaction may not be of a revolutionary character such as the Victorian dissatisfaction which embarrasses the Government and everybody else. What we have to do is to bring out not only the new concept of a Commonwealth teaching service but a new concept of how to establish it. 
There is no doubt in my mind that the consultation with the teaching services involved has been totally inadequate. I am fortified in that by the statement issued by the teachers in the' Australian Capital Territory that local teachers and the Australian Teachers Federation should have been involved in more meaningful discussions on this Bill. The Minister explained that he had consultations with them, but I think we have to get over the idea that a piece of legislation is a private, confidential document down to the last full stop until it lobs in here. I can think of no reason why the outline of the legislation should not have been submitted around the traps for people to consider it. I think that this obsession with proprietary secrecy is something- 
Well, I have not met anybody who said he saw it. I ask the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  my technical adviser on education in this area, whether I am right in that 
I am thinking of the actual legislation. This is what they say. 
I am glad that the Minister is so tender towards the union movement. They would have been able to point out the unsuitability of the major provisions of this Bill, as we have been doing today. Last week I was in Alice Springs and I discussed the matter with teachers there. Unless they have totally misled me, they have no idea of the contents of this legislation. I presume that there were some copies of the legislation somewhere in Alice Springs, but I spoke to some 30 or 40 teachers - I spoke to the senior members of them in separate groups - and none of them had any. They had summaries or summations of it that they had acquired on a chance visit to Darwin. The people in Alice Springs are vitally concerned with this matter. So today I air freighted to them the necessary information - not that it will do them much good. I suppose the execution has been set and there is not much chance of a reprieve. The point about the people of the Northern Territory is that they have nowhere else to go. They are much more isolated in all sorts of ways than are the people here in this Territory. 
The House may well accept the principle of the legislation tonight; I have no doubt it will. It ought to accept the principles that the Opposition has espoused in its amendment. But this is fundamentally a committee Bill. It is one in which the details of the conditions under which people are going to work ought to be decided clause by clause, and that ought to be decided after further and useful consultations with the people involved. What are the weaknesses of the legislation? First of all there is a single authority - the Commissioner. We say that there ought to be a commission. I am not even happy with that as a totality at this stage. I would think that this Commissioner in the initial use of his authority is much more powerful than any other person in the Australian public services - certainly in the Commonwealth Public Service, as I understand it. I believe that this is a very bad principle indeed. We are dealing with a profession. It is a profession that is becoming increasingly touchy and it is one that has to be handled with kid gloves in these matters. The teachers are not going to be pushed around any more. i do not think that the House ought to allow this Bill to pass. We ought not to tolerate the creation of this single authority - and a single man at that - with such unchallenged power in the first exercise of it. It is true that there are appeal provisions here and there. Appeals may be made to the Public Service Board and perhaps to the Abritration Commission, but in the immediate compact this seems to be a much more authoritarian structure than the average army unit. 
Well, if the Minister reads the legislation he will see that the salaries, wages and so on can be determined by the Commissioner. There are ways in which this can be qualified. What other person operating a Commonwealth authority can do that? I believe that this is wrong. That is in the initial stages. Of course, the wage fixation can be qualified by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, by the Public Service Board or by the Commissioner himself. It seems that in the attempt to find devious ways of establishing some kind of protection for the inmates of the system all we have done is to place layer after layer of people who themselves have been signal failures in establishing satisfactory working relationships with staffs. This is not the way it ought to work. Then there is the matter of determination of qualifications. This again is the job of the Commissioner. 
One point that I ought to make as strongly as possible relates to the power to post people hither, thither and yon. I do not quite know what is the actual authority inside the Commonwealth Public Service but generally speaking, as I understand it, any person with permanency cannot be shunted around hither, thither and yon. One of the great weaknesses of the public services of Australia and many of the large private commercial concerns such as banks has been the arbitrary and capricious way in which people are shunted off around the country, family life and everything else notwithstanding. Honourable members may say that this is the way these services work. That is not the way these services work. One of the more unhappy services in Australia in this regard is perhaps the teaching service in Victoria. But for something like 40 or 50 years a member of the Victorian teaching service, having once been appointed to a position has been able to stay there until something substantially changed the form of the position or he asks to be shifted. I have always been astonished at the failure of the other teaching services in Australia to adopt this simple formula. In Victoria as time has gone on the opportunity for change of position by the authority has been, I suppose, muted so that now you get annual moves instead of the previous haphazard movements. 
Nobody is going to join a service with any great contentment about his future if today he can be teaching here and tomorrow he can be off to Tennant Creek. One may say that is not going to happen, but do not tell me that, inside the rather arbitrary structure that we have designed, that will not happen. The disciplinary provisions of the Bill seem to me to be slightly archaic. That is another question. What are the problems? We sense the problems. The people in the Australian Capital Territory want to be separate. They want to have a separate authority here. They do not want to be tangled up with the Northern Territory. I do not know that 1 am basically in sympathy with their view. I would agree that the people of the Northern Territory and the people of the Australian Capital Territory may well be advantaged by having the larger service at their disposal. I do not see that the Northern Territory ought to be placed at any disadvantage just because it is in a remote part of Australia. One of the advantages that the Austraiian educational systems did provide for the community generally was that no matter how remote you were there was an opportunity to have as qualified a teacher as if you were in a city area. We have to resolve this question. 
The people of the Australian Capital Territory have for a long while been campaigning for a separate authority of their own. I have always said, and I say it still, that this is a very good opportunity for an experiment in Australian education administration. But it should be possible to solve the problem of the administration of the Australian Capital Territory as a separate unit and the creation of the Northern Territory as a separate unit but with interchangeability between them. I can think of no great difficulty in arranging interchangeability between them even if the services are separate. Therefore I do not see that the differences in this area are insurmountable. The point has been made on several counts that we could not have a 3 -man commission because, after all, there will be only a couple of thousand teachers. I think that is a slightly immoral argument. When you are dealing with one's professional career and his whole livelihood you have to handle it carefully whether for one person or a thousand people. Of course, 2,000 people is not an insignificant number. 
What is a career structure? Perhaps in a way we have not taken a good, long hard look at this question of what the teaching service is about. Basically, teachers in their class rooms are equal no matter what they are, teaching. The teacher in room 8 is basically on an equal task with the teacher in room 32, no matter what the subject is and no matter how old he is. I suppose the only distinction one ought to make is in relation to qualifications. I believe that we should be taking a much closer view of the way in which the teaching service is structured and see whether we cannot design a non-competitive career structure in which a person does not need to be promoted above his contemporary. A few years ago people from Canada came out here recruiting teachers. They were astonished at the flood of teachers who applied for positions, particularly from Melbourne. One of the things that impressed me about the Canadian system was the salary structure based upon qualifications and years of experience.  A  person could go right to the top of the service, without having to be promoted over somebody else. 
I believe it is fair to say that the teacher in his classroom should be equal to every other teacher and I think that the pyramidal system which is the infliction of the Commonwealth Public Service seems to be inherent in this scheme. We ought to be attempting to solve some of those problems which are part of the critical basis of education in Australia particularly the teaching services. Probably the first problem is that of morale. All the evidence is that the morale of the teaching services in Australia is at a low order. There are all sorts of reasons for this. Some of them have to do with inadequate environment in which they teach, some with the inadequate salaries and all that goes with it. But there is no doubt that the morale of the teaching services in Australia is at a low ebb. 
The principal weakness in the system is the authoritarianism in the schools. It appears to me that inside the aspect of the authority of the Commissioner this is a totally authoritarian system and that is one of the reasons why we raise strong objections to this Bill. Then there are questions of the fixation of salaries, qualifications etc. As I said earlier, this is a complicated piece of legislation. I do not quite know how we should tackle it, looking at it with the views that we have. The Opposition has had people who have examined this legislation from the view point of industrial conditions, salary fixation, the rights and powers of the Commissioner and so on. It seems to me that there may be a strong case for 3 different authorities operating in this system. The question of salary fixation is a difficult and different question. Nobody in Australia has resolved it properly yet. Nobody in Australia has been able satisfactorily to satisfy the professional aims of the teachers to be equal to other people around them. 
One of the great difficulties of teaching services in Australia is that qualified teachers are so numerous. In raising the salary of a qualified person with an Arts degree and a Diploma in Education or some other postgraduate qualification in another service it would involve 10, 20 or 100 persons but when dealing with teaching services it may mean dealing with thousands. Therefore, there has been a tendency inside the Australian education system to keep the pay for qualified teachers lower than people with equal qualifications in other areas. We ought to be able to overcome that. I do not think that the Commissioner is going to be able to overcome that. I do not see that if there has been this considerable search throughout Australia for a satisfactory wage fixation system and none has yet been devised that one single man operating as the Commissioner is going to resolve the problem. 
I put it to the Minister that in the Committee stage of this Bill this is an area that we ought to examine very thoroughly. I have no doubt that when the Bill reaches the Senate this will be the case anyhow and therefore I suggest that we make haste slowly and that we proceed to complete the second reading stage to enable the people scattered throughout the continent who are involved - we are dealing with their lives, hopes, fears and concerns - to have adequate time to consider all the things that have been said in this debate and perhaps to repeat them and allow proper submissions to be made to the Minister, his Department or any authority decided upon. I say emphatically that unless a lot of guarantees are given to teachers in the Northern Territory they will not stay in the service. They will not stay unless there is a guarantee about the security of tenure and about the fundamental equality of the service in which they elect to teach. If they are in the Northern Territory, for instance, they will be leaving the South Australian teaching service to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service. We have to ensure by some sort of guarantee - I do not know what the formula could be - that these people will have as satisfactory a teaching career in the Northern Territory as they would have had under the South Australian system. Unless that is guaranteed we will lose nearly all of them. 
The same will apply in the Australian Capital Territory. No matter how desirable it may be to live here unless the professional aspiration of the teacher is guaranteed in some way we will lose all of the teachers in the Australian Capital Territory. One of their great advantages has been that they have been able to operate in a very large teaching service. There is no reason why we should not be able to create for a smallish teaching service the conditions which apply in large teaching services. I am certain that it will take a lot more thought and consideration and particularly consultation than we have seen in this measure although such as it is we are glad that at least it has started to see the light of day. 
The issue here is whether one man or more than one man is to administer such a service as this. The point the Opposition is making to the Committee is that the creation of this Commissioner as a single authority is a departure from the general principles upon which the public services of Australia operate. As far as I know, there are very few authorities - I do not know of any, but perhaps there are some - where one man has been vested with the authority that this Commissioner will have. This Commissioner will decide on the actual placing of teachers, upon their wages and conditions and so on, subject to further qualifications later. He will have the right to promote personnel and the right to hire and fire. We believe that this is quite undemocratic. It is against the best interests of the teaching service. We on this side of the chamber believe that there should be representatives of the Service on the Commission. 
My friend, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  during the course of the second reading debate pointed out that employees are not represented on the Commonwealth Public Service Board. However, in some other authorities throughout Australia they are represented, i  am almost  certain that they are represented on the Victorian Public Service Board. I know that they are represented on the various tribunals in the Victorian teaching service. This has been one of the policies which has gradually developed over the last 20 oi 30 years. We are now creating a new service and we should riot return to the authoritarian view of employment which is defined in this Bill. Therefore, I believe that the Committee should give serious consideration to this matter and vote for the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. 
Is it possible to say where this salary will fit into the system, because one of the issues in the Commonwealth Public Service concerns status and the general position in the whole system. I suppose my attitude is that anybody getting more than $10,000 a year ought not to be getting it at the present moment. In fact we ought to ensure that the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Teaching Service is paid a salary commensurate with his duties, which I think would put him fairly high in the hierarchy. 
When we examined this clause we found it difficult to understand exactly what was meant butI will leave that to the draftsman.I am referring to clause 16 (4.). The position in regard to clause 16 (3.)(a) as I see it is this. In Australia there is an acute shortage of teachers at all levels. There is no general recruiting service throughout the country. I am the  chairman  of a high school advisory council in my electorate. A couple of years ago we advertised in the London 'Times' for teachers. We were setting our sights fairly high. After having received 16 or 17 applications from various parts of the world of whom about 14 or 15 seemed to us on paper to be qualified, we eventually acquired 2. Both of them happened to be Indians. After we had had serious fights with the Victorian Department of Education about the requirements of that Department in that teachers had to come to Australia for an interview - one of them was teaching in Ethiopia - the Victorian Teachers Union doubted the applicants' qualifications; then we had our final tussle with that remarkable revolutionary, the then Minister for Immigration. The misfortune of these people was that they happened to have skins of a different colour to ours, but eventually they arrived in Australia. 
It seems to me that for the Commonwealth to embark upon such a programme of actually recruiting and getting people to Australia and putting them into a Commonwealth service to make them available as required throughout Australia would supply a service that nobody else could supply. I am quite certain that there are tons of authorities around Australia who would be anxious to make use of these persons. One of the things that is happening in Victoria, and perhaps in other States too, is that local schools are taking the initiative in advertising for staff and therefore we do not really need to wait for the initiative of the education departments. 
I personally believe that we would be advantaged if there were a national teaching service available throughout Australia and that on whatever terms necessary all teachers in Australia receive satisfactory salaries and so on. I am not advocating a great monolith. We have been arguing against this all night. I believe that there is a requirement for a national teaching attitude andI think that it could be met partly by a national teaching service. I am certain from my own experience that the Commonwealth could supply a service and a facility which nobody else could supply if the Commonwealth were prepared to make the effort. 
I do not think the system will be as difficult to operate as the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  and the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  anticipate. I am not quite au fait with the latest developments in Victoria. 1 understand that people who have recently joined the teaching service are likely to be posted anywhere. My friend, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  has informed me of the case of a husband being posted a couple of hundred miles from his wife. She may well have organised it; I do not know. However, as I understand the system as it used to operate, once a person received a permanent appointment that was it until there was some change of status of the school at which he was working. Normally a teacher stayed in the school to which he was appointed unless he was transferred for promotional reasons or sought a move. 
As the system will operate, and I presume it operates similarly in other areas, vacancies will be advertised. Anyone joining the Commonwealth Teaching Service will be able to apply for vacancy and if there are vacancies only at Tennant Creek South East, Narrabundah West, Yirrkala, Nhulunbuy or Gove, or elsewhere that is where persons will fit into the system. There are no real difficulties. Most of the time there will be some floating group inside the service but for the generality of teachers permanency of living place will be one of the fundamental factors in recruitment. I believe that unless we make this clear somewhere along the line we will damage the opportunity of people joining the service. 
What will be the situation in Canberra? It is quite possible that after the system has been operating for 2 or 3 years - tha honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  of course has pointed out that its operations will be in the hands of people more sensitive to these matters before very long - and a few teachers from Canberra have been sent reluctantly to Papua New Guinea and the Northern Territory there will be a retreat from Canberra back into the New South Wales teaching service. I personally would regard this as an important matter if I were in the teaching service somewhere and had my home there. There is a big difference in the attitude of the average family man of the 1960s and 1970s compared with that of 30 or 40 years ago. People are most reluctant to move their homes, even for promotion in most instances. Stability of living place is extremely important and the possibility of caprice or arbitrary decision shunting teachers around Australia will not assist recruitment. On the technical side I do not think the difficulties are as enormous as honourable members opposite seem to envisage. 
This is  a  piece of archaic nonsense. There are literally dozens and dozens of people coming to Australia who do not have the great good fortune to be British subjects. The electorates comprising the inner suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne contain in the schools thousands of customers who are not British subjects and it is quite idiotic to have this proviso in the Bill. I am minded to raise the matter here tonight because while in Alice Springs I met a teacher who was an American subject. I do not know what provision there is in South Australia on this matter, but it is probably much the same. Honourable members might say that this is a small point which the Opposition has raised because the Commissioner has only to apply to the Minister and he will always say yes; he is always reasonable when dealing with these matters no matter how unreasonable he always is here. The fact is that it gives a great deal of security to persons affected by this clause if there are no provisos which can possibly exclude them. In the increasingly cosmopolitan nature of the community this proviso is another one of those things which make people from Europe and America feel a little less at home. Surely we can delete this proviso tonight and show that we have grown up a bit. I am not anti-British or anything like that but if we invite people from all over the world to live in Australia let them work on equal terms with every other person who lives in Australia. 
I address a question to the Minister for the Army. Does he subscribe ito the view that there is no physical threat to Australia in the foreseeable future? Is it a fact that the Government retains the national service system to maintain 9 battalions of infantry? What possible relevance can 9 battalions of infantry have to Australia's particular strategic position? Can the Minister give any explanation as to why we maintain a system which is producing a military establishment which is unnecessary and which is causing great division inside the community? 
I move: 
In sub-clause (4.), omit ", with the approval of the Public Service Board,". 
It is the opinion of members of the Opposition and those people to whom we have spoken on this matter that the intrusion of the Public Service Board will do very little for the solution of the problem of the employment, working conditions, salaries and so on of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. I think the sad experience of all Australian teaching services is that where they are closely aligned to public services and the general employees of the State authorities the position gets tangled and a great deal of dissatisfaction is created. In New South Wales in particular, where the 
Public Service Board has maintained, and I presume still has, a major say in this matter there has been a great deal of dissatisfaction. It may be said, of course, that the Public Service Board provides another line of appeal, as it were, because there will be another authority to which an appeal may be taken. During the course of this debate we have pointed out that we are not happy with the Commissioner having the sole authority as bestowed upon him by this Bill. On the other hand we are inclined to consider that the Public Service Board is not an appropriate appeal authority. 
If the Commonwealth Teaching Service is to work, a separate authority will have to be established, free of the inhibitions that flow from the Public Service Board and the established traditions in these matters. How are the salaries of university staffs handled? I do not know that they are under the supervision of the Public Service Board. In general, I do not see any reason why staffs at universities should be treated as a superior race because of this. Therefore, I hope that at some time in the near future we will get around to considering this question of the salaries of professional people involved in the teaching service. The Minister mentioned his emulation of the Honourable J. J. Dedman. If the Minister could only carry Dedman principles into other areas of bis politics I am quite certain that the nation would be much better advantaged. For example, if he could only adopt Dedman principles in relation to banking, social organisation and the development of education generally, there would be a big improvement. 
The moving of this amendment to remove the Public Service Board from the operations of the Commissioner does not mean that the Opposition approves the structure. As I see it, the Commissioner will be a man with exceptional authority. He will have the right to hire teachers and the right to fire teachers. He will be the person to decide on the structure of the service, the actual classifications and all the rest of it. He will decide where people are to be posted. He will have the authority to set salary scales. He will be able to post people through the Commonwealth's Territories and so on. He will have the power of discipline. What we are trying to get across to the Government is that no matter whether the Public Service Board is involved, this system will not work satisfactorily. 
I wonder whether anybody else anywhere in the Commonwealth Public Service has or will have the authority of the Commissioner. Which other section of the Public Service has the right to decide salaries on its own account? I suppose it could be said that the Public Service Board in deciding the basis of its own operations in some areas does have that right, but after all it is a board. But which head of a Commonwealth department is able to decide salaries? Which head of a Commonwealth department will ever have this authority? It is absolutely essential that we examine all the strife and trouble that is occurring throughout the teaching service of Australia. There is a good deal of strife in Victoria, and a number of tribunals and similar bodies have been set up in an attempt to solve it. Most of this strife has arisen because of the relationship between the teaching service and the people making the decisions. Because of this situation the Opposition is deeply concerned about the structure of the service, the authority of the Commissioner and the way in which matters will be resolved. Therefore, I hope that there will be some deep thinking somewhere along the line on these various questions. 
We do not believe that anybody should have the absolute authority that the Commissioner seems to have. I do not believe that the Public Service Board is the appropriate authority either. I wonder whether the Commissioner in fact will have more authority than the Chief of the General Staff has over his troops. The Chief of the General Staff cannot decide on salaries. What can the head of the department decide? I believe that the Government has approached this matter in a rather haphazard manner with much more regard to an authoritarian system than it ought to have when dealing with the service. More consultation should take place with the teachers involved, particularly those in the Northern Territory. 
I should like to say something about this clause because I think that it goes to the heart of the matter - the dispute, one might say. between the point of view which we are expressing from this side of the chamber and the principle upon which the Bill is structured. We are asking here: What is a teacher? The definition of 'efficiency', I suppose, is as good as one can get because efficiency is one of those things that one just cannot measure. One .just has to make some kind of objective survey, but in the end it will be a subjective judgment. Teaching is an individualistic task. We cannot relate the task of a person teaching, say. history in fifth or sixth form to the task of somebody teaching grade 3 in a primary school. The teachers in both instances have to apply all their professional talents and skill to the most important product of the nation, its human material. 
As I see it, the Bill carries into effect the pyramidal principle, as I think it is called in the Public Service, in which there is some sort of hierachical structure. I believe that we will be doing a service to the Australian teaching profession if we depart from that principle and design some system in which the teacher is measured against his or her performance during the course of his or her career. I can see no reason whatsoever why there ought not to be in one school a number of teachers all getting the same salary. A headmaster's position or a principal's position is not always fundamentally a teaching position. It is much like the question which we tried to resolve in the Parliamentary Library. The person who is the director of the exercise does not necessarily have to be - in the case of the Parliamentary Library - a librarian. That is how we decided the question in our particular situation. 
I believe that teaching is fundamentally an egalitarian profession and that when one takes qualifications, experience, the places where teachers are teaching and so on, those are the considerations that must be borne in mind. There is generally a greater egalitariansim creeping into the teaching service itself. If there is one thing that upsets people as they look at the whole structure of teaching as it used to be and still is in some services it is the infinite progression of subordination from the director at the top to the last appointed teacher. That was the real reason why we were critical of sub-clause (3.) in clause 28. 
I am pleased that the Minister has chosen to withdraw that sub-clause. I think in a way it shows that there is a good deal to be said for discussing a Bill in this friendly, across the board way at the Committee stage. It gives people the opportunity to place their views before the Government before a matter is finally decided. The last thing we want to do is to inflict administrative attitudes upon the teaching service. What we have to do is to say: Can you teach? Wherever you teach we expect you to put everything you have into it. That is the way you will be valued - not on the basis that you happen to be senior to another 5, 15 or 500 teachers'. 
I take it that one will not have much chance to offer advice after the Bill has passed beyond the Bar. I hope that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will give his personal attention, in the few months which he has left to him in his high office, to the general question of how one decides efficiency and who is to decide it. If it is to be left to the local headmaster, all kinds of troubles will be created. If an inspection system is to be created, there is a great deal of experience throughout Australia, and some of it is changing rapidly. I understand that the position in Victoria is that the teacher who wishes to be measured for promotion applies for promotion and there is an inspection system under which an outside inspector comes along. I understand that this is slowly happening around the rest of Australia, which may be even ahead of Victoria. 
One of the great difficulties from which the Australian education system has suffered over so many years has been the very authoritarian way in which the inspectorate has been able to come along and make some kind of measurement of people. Careers have depended upon an inspection, at a chance time, of people in the various teaching services. I think that in the end we have to decide that this is not a measure of one person against another. We have to measure a person against the objectives of teaching and against the person's own application to the task. 1 hope that the people who will sit down and finally decide on recommendations for promotion will do so with great care. The operations which have been applied throughout Australia so far have, generally speaking, been unsuccessful. I think that the way promotion is carried out in some other service is generally irrelevant. I place on record the wish that the Minister for Education and Science will pay close attention to this matter. Of course, the Minister himself has been the victim of a very authoritarian system where one man makes ali the decisions. Nobody can say that the objectivity of merit has always been applied equally. I ask the Minister to make sure that he applies all his talents to solving this problem and keeping a close eye on it. 
I have never been able to work out why there is this discrimination against temporary employees, particularly in the Commonwealth Public Service. It seems to me that, once a person starts to work, that ought to be it. I know that there are certain provisions relating to superannuation and so on which involve other considerations. But throughout the Commonwealth Public Service and in the Public Service Act the view is expressed - 'and apparently we are enshrining it again here - that a temporary employee is something less than an employee. 
There is a number of reasons why an employee is temporary. The employee may be temporary because he or she is not yet naturalised, because the vacancy was not appropriate or because he or she belongs to a different age group. But, no matter what, a temporary employee is still called upon to perform the same function in the classroom or in any other position to which that employee may be posted. I believe that it is time that we knocked this discriminatory attitude on the head. It seems to me that no reason at all exists why, when a person joins the Commonwealth Public Service in any function, that person should not be considered permanent until he or she retires. I believe that this is just one of those things that has been handed down decade after decade through the public service systems of Australia. 
The idea of leave on full pay in respect of pregnancy is not a novel suggestion. First of all, as has been pointed out, an International Labour Organisation convention makes provision for this principle. The idea that there should be some special types of leave to which a person is entitled and which do not affect their leave credits is not new either. I do not know what the situation is in the Commonwealth Public Service, but I recall, for instance, that in the Victorian teaching service an officer who is on sick leave as the result of a war caused disability has a special leave rating which does not affect the ordinary sick leave credits of that officer. 
The stage is being reached where it is the normal thing for married women to work. I hope that it is still the normal thing for marriages to produce children. That happens to be the function of the woman in the marriage. Therefore, it ought to be an accepted part of our procedures that a pregnancy is treated in a special way in respect of female employees. Therefore, I believe that all the reasons are adequate to bring about a change in the general Public Service attitude on this matter and, in this instance, to adopt a more liberal approach to pregnancy leave. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been singularly co-operative here through the day, and that is appreciated- 
Well, it is novel. Instead of this Parliament being a give and take between people trying to find common solutions, it is normally a confrontation. 
Well, I would not want to have to follow him myself - not very far. But, in the circumstances, I realise that what is proposed is a pretty serious departure from the general principles upon which the Public Service operates. In many respects, I believe that in the Commonwealth Public Service the sick leave provisions and the compensation provisions for injury suffered on the job are inadequate in the. extreme. But I hope that we can come to the view that we ought to accept as a standard the principles that are recommended by the International Labour Organisation. 
I think there are peculiar conditions in the teaching service in regard to leave. In normal circumstances Public Service employees may take their leave at any time. They are able to accrue leave for a particular period and so on. The teaching service, however, is confined to school vacations for leave purposes. Teachers are in a slightly different position to other Public Service employees in that regard. But this was not our real argument; our real argument was that pregnancy ought to be treated in a special manner, that it should not impose any unnecessary hardship upon teachers. It is worth while having a service in which people may remain without let or hindrance. The general question of the length of time needed by a person before and after confinement is dependent on the physical comfort of the person and her health advantage. I believe that this provision will not affect a very large number of people. I believe also that it is time that we were more liberal, more humane and less dedicated 1o financial matters in our approach to these situations. 
 I understand that the Committee is now considering passing the remainder of the Bill. While the Opposition proposes no amendments to the remainder of the Bill there are one or two matters which should be considered a little more carefully. These relate to the questions which we have been raising during this debate. Division 6 deals with dismissals and punishments. The commissioner, once again, is given disciplinary authority in a large measure. The last thing that most Government supporters want to do is to talk on a subject like this. They will talk their heads off on the question of giving aid to independent schools but they do not care much about the situation of the teachers who will be employed by the Commonwealth. I question the kind of disciplinary provisions proposed and the way in which they will be carried out. I do not know the answer, but I believe that the Department and the Minister ought to apply themselves to it. Paragraph (b) of sub clause (1.) of clause 35 empowers the Commissioner to fine a teacher up to $40. This provision seems to me to he something lifted out of Army regulations, the Defence Act or the keelhauling provisions of the Navy. We should be able to do better than that. I believe that the general provisions of the Bill dealing with dismissals and punishments and the appeals against such decisions are getting scant consideration. Similarly, Division 7, containing provisions relating to scholarships being withdrawn, is receiving pretty scant consideration. The same division contains provisions concerning the powers and functions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in respect of the Service. I believe these provisions are entitled to very serious consideration by those people who are concerned with the way salaries and conditions are determined in this country. I hope that the Minister will take another look at this matter, particularly the quesion of fining teachers. 
-I support the remarks made by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  about the oath and one or two other matters. To most of us the swearing of the Oath of Allegiance to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II,  Her  heirs and successors according to law, does not mean one thing or the other. People will do their job whether they are on oath or not. The taking of the oath is archaic. The oath will not make the person better or worse but it could be used, as it has been over the last 25 years, to apply a political test to people who want to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Do not tell me that there have not been political tests applied to the behaviour of people in the Commonwealth Public Service over the last few years. In some cases it has been difficult for the Government to do whatever it would have liked to have done but I remember the horror that broke out when the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  chose to be endorsed as the Australian Labor Party candidate for Dawson. I remember the then Minister for National Development, now the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  being shocked at the time. If there had been any such provisions at the time I am confident that the honourable member for Dawson would have been found guilty of improper or disgraceful conduct or conduct unbecoming somebody or another. I agree with my colleague that these provisions open the gate for arbitrary and capricious decisions. We are, generally speaking, placing this in the hands of one person. I do not believe that this is desirable. I believe that most of our operations have to depend on the faith and good judgment of people inside the services. 
Many of the provisions in this Bill are unnecessary and things such as the oath are, I think, redundant in a society in which basically we have to put our faith in people's loyalty and good behaviour. 
I think the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has a point but the difficulty we face is that when we come to some fundamental considerations of how this Parliament is going to work we have not created the internal machinery by which we can do it effectively. When this subject was before the Parliament earlier there was in a general sense a party confrontation about it. The principles upon which we are operating and the ideas behind them or the necessity or nonnecessity for Assistant Ministers or any other rank of Minister were not given a full airing or proper consideration. That debate was gagged, as I recall, so that we might get onto the next business. Now we are debating the report of the Standing Orders Committee on the way in which we are going to operate. lt is disappointing - I do not blame anybody in particular, the Minister in charge of the House  (Mr Swartz)  or anyone else - that this debate comes on unexpectedly at this late hour of the night. One might say that it has not come on unexpectedly because it has been on the notice paper for a week or more. Therefore, it is not unexpected to that extent. But the debate comes on at some chance moment when people could be looking the other way. It would be quite possible for this matter to pass through the House with most members being unaware that it had been discussed. We must be able to do better than this. The 'Daily Programme' tells us that at 2.1S p.m., for example, tariff proposals will be introduced. We should be informed that at, say, 4 p.m. the report of the Standing Orders Committee will be called on for debate. That ought to be the rule when a. matter that concerns the workings of the House is to be debated. 
On the subject of Assistant Ministers, a fundamental question of the executive government of Australia arises. It has had no parliamentary consideration whatsoever. I part company with some of my colleagues on whether we should or should not oppose this proposition. It seems to me that the 5 Assistant Ministers in this House are part of the facts of life on the Government side. But, if they are participating in any way in the management of the country, they ought to be able to answer for that management here. As far as Bills are concerned, I do not see that it matters whether the member in charge of a Bill is a Minister or not. In a proper parliamentary demoracy, it would be possible for me to introduce a private member's Bill which I would pilot through the 
House. I can think of no reason why that should not happen in many areas of the non-partisan part of politics. 
Usually. I am in complete agreement with my friend from Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  But I think that he is looking at this matter from a different angle from me. In reply to a proposition from thus side of the House concerning a Bill a Minister will say: 'We will accept that amendment' or "We will not accept that amendment'. In giving his say-so, the Minister is in fact putting his faith in his party majority. But nothing has any validity here unless it has the sanction of the majority of the House. A Minister has a function to perform in the House, but he does not own the right to decide what will happen to legislation. One of the afflictions from which we suffer is that we have allowed ministerial domination of this Parliament. If honourable members look through the Standing Orders, they will see almost total ministerial proprietorship imbedded in them. 
This evening I hope for some fundamental consideration of this question of Ministers, executive government, the Executive Council and so on. I believe that it is time that this Parliament established, perhaps, a select committee on parliamenatry government. My research on the matter suggests to me that we are operating under a system of executive government which was designed in Great Britain in about 1707, was adopted here in 1900 and has not been changed. I speak of the relationships between Ministers, departments and so on that we find imbedded in the Constitution. 
What is the situation with respect to Assistant Ministers? I know that a good deal of criticism has been directed at the fact that they have been appointed. 1 agree that as far as we can tell in this House they perform no useful function. In fact, I agree with my friend from Sturt  (Mr Foster)  that a member feels, with proper respect to the person concerned, that it is a little second rate to be brushed off by an Assistant Minister. My own view is that we ought to have more Ministers of this rank. One of the interesting events recently was the appointment by the Government of Great Britain of a Minister in charge of 
Northern Ireland affairs. Honourable members might say that that job would be the labours of Hercules multiplied manyfold How did the British Government go about this appointment? How would we have gone about it? What would have happened here if that situation had arisen? 
Let us assume that it was decided that we had to do something special about the State of Tasmania. We would appoint a Minister for Tasmania. But what would he be? He would probably be created as an appendage to the Minister for National Development. There would be a subdepartment in his area. What did the British do? They appointed a Secretary of State of Cabinet rank. They appointed 2 Ministers of State, who were senior Ministers, at least one parliamentary secretary, I think, and 3 or 4 people of ministerial rank, to handle that area. As I understand it, what happens is that they decide amongst themselves which area each will handle and in the House of Commons each accepts responsibility for his area. I think that there are approximately 91 persons of ministerial rank in the House of Commons. 
We have inflicted ourselves with some sort of pyramidal structure in which we believe one person only may answer for one specific area of government. I do not agree with this practice. I believe that we must give completely new consideration to the way in which the country should be run. Therefore, on this occasion, and with no commitment one way or the other to the present system of Assistant Ministers, I do not propose to vote against the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee unless I am convinced that I should do so by some further debate here this evening. I believe, for instance, that an Assistant Minister ought to be able to answer questions in this place. The Assistant Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  has just been to Broken Hill. I do not know whether he did any good or not, but he probably learnt something. 
That is right. It would be an insult beyond bearing if we were to say they were. But the point I make is that this was an important national issue. Why should we not have asked the Assistant 
Minister what it was all about? Why are we so possessive about this ministerial rank. I believe that the Parliament is the executive of the nation and that the Parliament is the government - not the particular convocation of people who make up the current Ministry of Micawbers that we have here. Therefore I believe that we ought to be giving more fundamental consideration at some point to the function of Assistant Ministers. Unhappily, it is only when we get a chance like this under Standing Orders that we can even discuss this subject. The Standing Orders Committee is not notable for the radical attitudes that the majority of its members take to things. In this situation it is probably desirable to adopt the amendments that the Committee has proposed on Assistant Ministers and allow this system to operate to see whether it will work. 
Personally I do not mind if an Assistant Minister sits at the table and pilots a Bill through the House. I think he ought to be able to do so. All of us are hopeful of being Ministers some day. There is no particular wisdom that befalls a man just because he is a Minister, although such a man might have more resources at his disposal. Therefore, while I think it is worth while in this situation to allow this recommendation to go through, I believe that we ought to imbed the idea in this place that it is the majority of the Parliament that makes the decision and that Ministers for the moment carry that responsibility because they have the party support. But many more amendments ought to be accepted. There should be many more free votes on internal questions within Bills because there are a remarkable number of non-partisan matters which pass through this place about which the Ministry should not be so possessive. Later on I hope to move an appropriate amendment about the adjournment of the House at a reasonable hour each night. I just give honourable members the warning that they will have to make up their own minds about that and remind them that we have a free vote on matters relating to Standing Orders. 
As an amendment has been moved, I think I am entitled to speak again,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The problem I would face in voting for the amendment is whether its acceptance would prevent an Assistant Minister from handling the passage through this chamber of a private member's Bill in his name. Is there any reason why it would be necessary to write in such a provision in the Standing Orders? What would be the position with respect to the handling of a private member's Bill? 
The Standing Orders do not belong to the Government. The Ministry does not own this place. It is the House of Representatives that would be discussing the legislation. Every Minister has his rank as a result of the charter issued by his membership of this Parliament. I think that I am reasonably conversant with the Standing Orders and I am certain that any member of this House can handle the passage of a Bill. Therefore the Assistant Ministers ought to be able to handle the passage of Bills through the Parliament. 
What is a Government decision? As far as I can determine there are certain things for which executive and administrative writs run - for example, where the decision is made because the person is exercising his authority as a Minister, because he is a member of the Executive Council, or because - I have a list of them in front of me - the Administrative Orders have nominated him to perform a particular function or because an Act of Parliament says that the Minister shall decide. I think I am right in saying that Cabinet decisions have no absolute validity of their own account. The Cabinet is not mentioned in the Constitution. As far as I know the Cabinet is not mentioned in any legislation, except in the Ministers of State Act. 
There are 2 ranks of Ministers. The decisions of the 12 men who meet in the far corner of Parliament House carry strength only because they know that the majority will support them in the House. I believe that we have in this discussion got off the principle of the thing, which is whether any member of this House shall be able to take a Bill through the various stages. As far as I can see, irrespective of whether we write out that provision or leave it in, an Assistant Minister should still be able to take a Bill through the various stages. I suppose the person who introduces a Bill in the Parliament has to take it through its various stages of progress. 
I am raising the point that I do not know whether the inclusion or exclusion of such a provision makes any difference one way or the other, because it is in fact the majority of the House that makes the decision, and we have all accepted it as a tradition that when a Minister says yea or nay all of the loyal freedom fighters on his side of the House will stand up and be counted according to his yea or nay. They are, of course, entitled to do otherwise - and they do otherwise in the Senate. That is what happens in the Senate - or should I say the other place? I think we are allowed to call it the Senate now. I do believe that we have this evening got into arguments about some points of detail that are not necessarily valid. As an amendment has been moved, I think the honourable member for Dawson is entitled to speak again in this debate if he wishes to do so. He may wish to refer to some points that I may have missed. 
I think the members of this House ought to be made aware somehow that this debate has resumed. I suggested the other night that if we were to discuss the Standing Orders, the time for the. discussion should be specified on the blue sheet. (Quorum formed) The subject before the House is the Standing Orders of the House. One of my colleagues called a quorum so that honourable members could be here to take part in the discussion. As I recall the decision that was taken a couple of years back, this was to be a subject for free vote. In my view it is not good enough, as happened the other night, when as far as I can tell from the division list, every honourable member opposite voted the party line but those on this side of the House at least broke across the party line. It was decided a couple of years ago that questions associated with the Standing Orders would be the subject of a free vote. That was the result of a contribution by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who suggested it to the Standing Orders Committee, and the suggestion has been accepted in the spirit, in the letter and in the practice by those of this side of the House. 
I hope that honourable members on the other side of the House will do the same. At the moment I am trying to ensure that the House is aware that in fact we are discussing the Standing Orders. The proposal that we have placed before theHouse is for the reduction of the time allowed to debate a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. While I agree with this recommendation I think that honourable members ought to give it more thought and make sure that they understand what they are voting about and what they are agreeing to. The next recommendation concerns petitions and I think we ought to look carefully at that one as well. 
Yes, I have no objection. 
While I am sympathetic to the point of view expressed by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  about this matter, the facts are that we do not consider the Standing Orders often enough for anybody to regard what the Minister has suggested as a valid procedure. How long has it been since my friend the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  raised this question about petitions? The report of the Standing Orders Committee has been listed on the notice paper for debate for weeks and weeks. If we are going to proceed as the Minister has suggested, we should have some procedure whereby at the beginning of each session there is a meeting of the Standing Orders Committee which considers suggestions placed before it and then within a certain time, at a specified date, the Committee's recommendations come up for discussion. Until we get around to organising this House in that way we will continue with the haphazard procedure which we will have to face this afternoon. In a few minutes, when this debate is concluded, there will be an extraordinary tangle when we try to vote on the various proposals which have been raised. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  and the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  said that petitions are a waste of time. They said: 'What is the good of them? Nothing happens about them. Therefore, cut them out'. My friend sitting near me said to me: 'Every day we pray at the beginning of the sitting'. Nothing ever happens from that, either. Part of that prayer states: '. . . direct and prosper our deliberations to the advancement of thy glory and the true welfare of the people of Australia'. When has that happened in the last 23 years? It also states: 'lead us not into temptation'. How long is it since we avoided that? In fact, if we look at the procedures we find that we do not get an immediate response to matters raised because the place does not work that way. That is not how politics are carried on. We are in the position of practising politics by persuasion. 
I believe that the petition is a substantial part of public campaigning about issues. When one asks a question in this chamber and a Minister answers in some sort of fashion, one does not expect to receive an immediate result. But one gets the message across, lt is heard. But are we going to cross out any question which does not get an immediate and effective response from a Minister? There are questions on the notice paper, and some of them have been there for months. But because we do not get an immediate answer k does not mean that we should not place questions on the notice paper. This is not the measure which we apply to any other procedure in this House. Day after day, week after week, there are discussions and speeches about things which produce no immediate response. Therefore, I do not think that that is a valid criticism. 
The honourable member for North Sydney - and I want to add to what was said by my friend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  - mentioned that hundreds of petitions were presented in 1947. He only had to look at the appendix which is attached to the Standing Orders Committee's report to see that 93 petitions were presented in 1947. 
The appendix shows that 93 petitions were presented. Many were presented on one day; on some days none were presented. On the average, a fraction more than one petition a day was presented in 1947, because in 1947 the Parliament met on 92 days. I think that we have to consider this question of petitions and whether they are a waste of time. They are a waste of time if, as nappened in this House recently, 31 members stood up and merely presented petitions. But I do not believe that they are a waste of time if honourable members reid out fully the text of each petition. I believe that when a member presents a petition the text of the petition ought to be read out. I am not happy with the wording on page 6 of the Standing Orders Committee's report which states: 
The  Clerk  shall make an announcement as to the petitions lodged with him for presentation to the House, indicating in the case of each petition (he member who lodged it, the identity of the petitioners and the subject-matter of the petition. The terms of the petitions presented shall be printed in Hansard and no discussion upon the subject-matter of a petition shall be allowed. 1 wish to add to that - perhaps these words are not precise enough unless one understands what it is all about - the following words: 
He shall read the text of each separate petition subject to the House. 
If there are 2 different petitions among 30 petitions which are presented, the  Clerk  shall read the full text of each petition and then announce to the House that petitions have been presented by the honourable members for so and so, so and so and so and so. On the average there would be no more than 2 or 3 actual readings. This would occupy only a few minutes. The honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  took the time required to deal with about 1 0 petitions to say very little in my view. I will move that these words be added. I believe that if a petition is presented its actual text should be read out. This would not make a substantial difference to the procedures. If the text of a petition had to be read it would probably involve only an additional 200 words which, in normal speech, would take perhaps li minutes. I believe this is important. 
I move- 
After paragraph (b) insert the following paragraph: (ba) That the standing orders be amended by inserting after standing order 49 the following new standing order: "49a. That, at 10 p.m. each sitting day, the  Speaker  shall put the question: - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate; if the House be in committee at that hour, the  Chairman  shall in like manner put the question - That he do leave the Chair and report to the House; and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate: Provided that if the House or the committee be in division at the time named, the  Speaker  or the  Chairman  shall not put the question referred to until the result of such division has been declared; and if the business under discussion shall not have been disposed of at such adjournment it shall  appear on the Notice Paper for the next sitting day".'. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: As Australia has been so deeply involved in Vietnam, what steps has he taken to develop international pressure for a cease fire in Vietnam? If he has not taken any such steps why has he not done so and when will he do so? Why has he shown no compassion whatsoever for the victims of the war? Will the Government give approval for the adoption of Vietnamese orphans if the appropriate approval is obtained by the private citizens? When will the Government do something which is not political but which shows some compassion for the victims of the war? 
Appropriately enough, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  petered out. He had 2 or 3 minutes remaining to him. This is a red letter day in a debate of this sort in this House. We have had 3 Cabinet Ministers participate. One would have thought that from all that power and heavyweight material we would have received some really effective announcements on what Australia's foreign and defence policy in this context ought to be. 
It is significant that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  opened the debate. The significance is that the Government is trying to turn the debate into an argument about the defence of Australia. We on this side of the House disagree with the view that the war in Vietnam has anything to do with the defence of Australia. We do not say that it has nothing to do with the morality of international affairs or with the concern for humanity or such matters as that; but we do say - we have said this for years and now it is obvious that the Government also says it - that the war in Vietnam is not significant to the defence of Australia because if it were significant to the defence of Australia the Government would be sending the troops hack there to hold the line. 
I suppose the present outbreak of open warfare indicates the absolute and ruthless cynicism of Government supporters because in this instance, although the war in fact is an open war, they are  silent  about Australian's involvement or commitment there. From the very day the Government launched Australia's involvement, the Labor Party denied that that involvement was necessary. We opposed it bitterly both in the public arena and in the parliamentary arena. We opposed it in 1966 at great political cost. We oppose it now, and it is quite obvious from public opinion that the Australian public have finally moved to the same position as the Labor Party. I believe that it is quite inept to talk about the influence of communist aggression in this context. 
What is the record on Vietnam? The sorry and unhappy record on Vietnam is a series of actions which have been consistent breaches of faith. At the conclusion of the Second World War in 1945 there was a possible solution to the problem. The 
Vietminh could have taken over Vietnam. In fact, they did for a month or two. But finally the allies breached all that and, with the return of the French, the present continuing, sorry, sad and tragic war was implemented. Then, in 1954 there were the Agreements which we are always so fond of quoting. One must admit that in 18 years it is likely that 2 different forms of society have been created in the North and the South. They have 2 different forms of government. They are not 2 different countries, but they are 2 completely different government areas. 
We on this side of the House believe that there is no solution in war. We also believe that we should be expending all our efforts to try to produce a diplomatic solution to the problem. We believe that Australia's commitment to Vietnam prejudiced our rights in this area as honest brokers in the international arena and that, having committed ourselves to one side or the other, we could no longer step into the discussions about Vietnam as a neutral and impartial country on the side of humanity and not supporting either side. Is there anybody in this House who would really want to live under either government? Neither government gets any cheers from me. The Government which I sit opposite, which I can study and the members of which I know closely, has my extreme distrust. I use the term in a political sense and not in a personal one. Generally speaking, the further away governments are, the less I am likely to like them. 
There is further evidence of breaches of faith. The Gulf of Tonkin incident is one. Is it not true that it has now been admitted that the Americans embarked upon some of the assaults on North Vietnam in 1964 and 1965 upon the basis of a false analysis of a military operation and that the Gulf of Tonkin incident is one of the sorry episodes of history? Then there is our own involvement. I can recall the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, coming into this House and announcing that Australia was to commit troops to Vietnam. We on this side of the House opposed it from that moment. Then we began to ask the Prime Minister what was the basis upon which this commitment had been undertaken. We were told - honourable members can look this up in the records - that we had been asked. It took ages to find anybody who could find any document in which we had been asked to commit troops. Of course, at thai time, there was the unhappy coincidence between, on one hand, the visit of the then Treasurer, the late Harold Holt, to Washington, the Australian request to the United States for further financial assistance in the forms of loans and so on and Australia's need for American financial investment in this country and, on the other, the American need to have some token involvement in Vietnam by another country. 
I believe that the Government, supported by honourable members most of whom are still sitting opposite, embarked upon that exercise with no understanding of what it really meant. They had no understanding that this would involve us in the death of 500 young Australians and the mutilation of a couple of thousand more and that it would divide the country. The Government thought, by some mysterious means, that it would be able to plant a battalion of Australians on foreign soil and just leave it there quietly as a token and an insurance premium but at no cost in lives, blood and division. The Government has constantly given us this misleading view. At that time, the Chinese were in the fray. One was given to understand that the Chinese were pouring down from the north, but nobody found the Chinese anywhere. We have been continually misled. 
Now, we have come to 1972. What does the Government expect? What does it expect the North Vietnamese to do when they are attacked by aircraft and heavy artillery? What does it expect the South Vietnamese to do? What do the North Vietnamese expect the Americans to do? For heaven's sake, can we not see that when war comes in reason flies out; that there is no possibility of getting common sense out of either side of the commitment; and that when we have reached this stage in human affairs, whether it is in individual affairs between 2 people who have come to acts of violence or whether it is affairs between nations, somebody must come between them and entice people to stop killing one another? That is where we stand. I believe that we must try to extend into international affairs the ordinary morality of civil life, and this is what is going on now. Australia somehow must take an entirely new position. 
What is my position? It is one of the great excitements of this House that, whenever we debate this subject, honourable members opposite quote some of my statements with approval. They would have only to take all my positions and approve them and adopt them for the country to be in much better shape. Where do I stand? I start on the assumption that no-one has the right to dispose of another's life. I stand for a party that opposes capital punishment, even for the most heinous crimes. Therefore, we have no right to kill for politic purposes; nor have the Americans the right to kill people in North Vietnam for a political solution; nor have the people of the North the right to kill the Khmer, the Lao or the Vietnamese of the North or the South in order to solve a political problem But as I said earlier, the facts are that when war enters reason flies and therefore others have to enter the fray. 
I am one of .those who believe that national unity is not a case for killing people. I would not believe that it is worth one drop of blood to unite any nation. There has to be a political solution. What concerns me in this context is 'the total disregard for the victims of the war - the victims in the North and the victims in the South. The Melbourne 'Herald' the other day contained an article headed 'City of fear - Young and old ready to flee!'. It referred to Hanoi. I have in my hand a newspaper photograph which is described as: 
Tran Huu, a 54-year-old North Vietnamese, holds a small child as he sits with other wounded. 
I was coming to that. The honourable member is, of course, one of those people who supports selective humanity. This morning on a broadcast of World Round-up by the British Broadcasting Corporation' I heard these words: 
Villagers stood around their shattered houses weeping. The bodies of a man,  Ms wife  and family lay where they had been burned to death. North Vietnamese infantry had attacked the town. 
I am not on either side. I believe they are both wrong and I believe tht the criminal operation of this Government has been to ignore the fact of humanity and ignore Australia's duty to get into the international arena and force international forums to accept the responsibility to stop people killing one another. I am one of the first to admit that this is difficult. I am the first to admit that it will not be easy to stop them. The Minister for Defence who is sitting at the table has just laughed. He is a man with a distinguished war service. He knows what war is about. Some of the people who sit behind him and who are of military age do not know what it is about so I am not surprised at their" lack of understanding. That is where the Opposition stands and somehow Australia has to achieve that objective. The Government has made serious miscalculations and is continuing to make them. 
I have been quoted in regard to what I have said about Cambodia. Of course it is true in regard to what I said in 1966 when I was in Cambodia but nobody took any notice when I came home and said that the North Vietnamese were committing aggression against Laos and that they will commit aggression against Cambodia if the exigencies of the war demand it because when a war gets going we accept the military emergencies and forget the niceties. That is the way it has always gone. I said then - this is recorded in Hansard - that we should be taking steps to guarantee the neutrality, integrity and soverighty of Cambodia but nobody did anything about it. Fighting a rearguard action from the back benches of the Opposition - that is what we were doing - you do not have much international initiative, but the people opposite have. Honourable members opposite are governing one of the world's wealthiest countries, one of the most powerful countries in this region, one that in the past has been able to influence international events and one which 25 years ago when it was much less significant internationally was able to get the independence of Indonesia guaranteed through United Nations action and also was able to launch Israel as an independent nation. 
That is correct, and this is my accusation against them. That is why I ask with all the force at my disposal that we drop the political gimmickry and get down to the business of trying to shake the chanceries of the world to see whether we can get international response because it is one of the most sorry episodes in recent history to see people standing back and cheering one side or the other. It is true - I will put this briefly - that last Sunday in Victoria at a Labor Party conference a majority of 111 to 96 did give their imprimatur to the North Vietnamese. I opposed it. I can continue to oppose it. It is fortunate that we on this side have the kind of political structure in which one can do that and can continue to do it. On the other side of the House there is no political structure which can have any influence upon anybody. The resolution of the Victorian conference was adopted by a small portion of a part of the Australian Labor Party and it has nothing to do with our policy. 
I believe that it is important and a matter of urgency for Australia to accept that at this stage diplomatic initiative is the only real contribution we can make and that we have to stop cheering either side. I for one do not want to see anybody win by military power. I believe that it is a bad thing at this stage of the world's history for people to achieve power by military means. We have to take diplomatic initiative. The Government's miserable gimmickry in this matter is, I believe, a disgrace to the nation. I have seen no tears shed by members on the other side in respect of anybody in the North or in the South. What Government supporters mean by Vietnamisation is the Vietnamisation of Australian politics for their political benefit. This Government is going to try to bring this into the political arena and continually identify us with people whom this Government thinks the citizens of Australia will reject. That is a very miserable performance and I think it is nearly time that we accepted the fact that in the world at large it will only be by persuasion that we will get a final result. 
We will not be measured by our weight in battleships. We will be measured by where we stand on matters on international morality and we must realise that the world is still to be won by people who take that stand. Therefore I hope that the House will use whatever persuasive powers it has upon the Ministry to ensure that this occasion is not the last occasion on which we can have an open-ended debate about a subject such as this. Is it not possible for honourable members opposite somehow to exercise some influence upon that Micawber-like Ministery which is waiting for something to turn up politically instead of accepting its bounden duty to humanity in North Vietnam or in South Vietnam, it does not matter which? 
What a way to run the House! Three weeks ago the Parliament examined the Standing Orders procedures. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  the soul of discretion and sensitive to the needs of the House, promised that everything that was discussed would be brought before the Standing Orders Committee as soon as possible. Today the Minister asks the House to alter its times of meeting. But when members of the Labor Party want to move for the adjournment of the House at a reasonable hour all sorts of reasons are put as to why we cannot do it. We are told that we ought to refer such a proposal to the Standing Orders Committee, that we ought to consider the Government's position, and that it will shorten the day too much and so on. Three weeks after discussing the Standing Orders the Minister has to juggle the affairs of this Parliament like some juggler's aide so that he can make up for whatever ministerial incompetence has produced the legislative log jam or whatever it is. I know perfectly well that for the Ministers and the Government in particular the meetings of this Parliament are a continual embarrassment. From the way the Minister speaks one would think that the principal function of members of this Parliament is to get away from Parliament House as fast as possible. It does not matter to me if we sit beyond 25th May. 
I make this point, which I made to one of the honourable member's ministerial friends once when he interjected similarly: You do not live anywhere; you just take up space. It so happens that my family live in Melbourne and it so happens that I have a base in Canberra. I believe that it is a serious reflection on the way this country regards the Parliament that in the 45 years since this Parliament was established in Canberra nothing has been done for the families of members. It is a reflection on the spirit in which these matters are handled. 
Today we are getting around to adjusting the meetings of the Parliament. I regret it. I am not going to oppose this motion but it also is a reflection on the way we run this place. The Minister says it is important that we should knock off on 25th May. Perhaps it is. But it is worth while the House remembering and the people noting that in the 925 days - almost 1,000 days - I think it is, since the last Federal election we have met on 170 days. Yet, suddenly the Minister has moved this motion to change the system so that we will be able to pick up another half hour a day. I do not agree with the motion but I will not vote against it. As we have this spirit of co-operation I will move an amendment in these terms: 
That the following words be added to the motion: 'and that the motion for the adjournment of the House shall be moved no later than 10 p.m.' 
If we are to extend the meetings at the beginning of the day it is fitting to fix a reasonable time to finish at the end of the day. I believe it is time we realised that we are not the only people involved. I consider that the way in which this House functions is one of the most selfish and inconsiderate operations anywhere in the country. 
It is all right for the Government. It is all right for the people who can go home and, if they do not feel like being back here at 9 o'clock in the morning, can come in at quarter past or half past 10 or buzz off somewhere else. But members of the staffs of this place - there are between 600 and 800 people involved in the machinery of this place - including Press representatives should be considered. What about the people in the refreshment rooms? What about the people in Hansard? What about the people in the Library? I have known times when we have sat through the night and met again at such a time that these people could not go home at all. What manner of behaviour is that? Therefore, on behalf of the staffs, ourselves, common sense and the reasonable operation of a national Parliament, as an amendment to the motion put by the Minister I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: 'and that the motion for the adjournment of the House shall be moved no later than 10 p.m.' 
I make the point that this is not in accordance with the terminology of the Standing Orders but this is not an amendment to the Standing Orders. 
I do not care whether a cognate, oblate or any other sort of debate is involved; 1 believe that I should have an opportunity to say a word or two about the behaviour of the 
Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  The Minister, who has been in this Parliament for only a relatively short period, acted tonight as if he were the emperor of Ethiopia or somewhere else. He and nearly every honourable member on the other side of the House give scant consideration and courtesy to anything out themselves and their own party discipline. This evening the Government has been putting legislation through the Parliament with the leave of the Opposition when such leave is required, but at no point does the Government ever consider anybody but its supporters. When I was sitting in my room a few moments ago I heard the Minister say: 'If the Opposition is going to speak like this, I will put the legislation through straight away'. What a wonderful power lies in his hands. It lies there not because he is so powerful but because not one honourable member opposite has one inch of grit, stomach, guts or self reliance. Honourable members opposite are the greatest bunch of party hacks this side of the black stump. 
Am I to understand that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  proposes to have the remainder of the Bill dealt with tonight, after it has been on the notice paper for approximately 2 months? We have had prepared for some time important considerations to be raised in the Committee stage. If the remainder of the Bill is to be dealt with at this hour of the night, 11.45, I regard it as an outrage. Operators opposite, at the flick of a finger or by some sleight of hand, always line up in operations such as this, without any consideration for the issues, then go out and claim to be liberals, independents and strong-minded. I regard it as an outrage. We are discussing an important principle in the establishment of the Australian Institute of Marine Science. A number of important considerations in the structure of the Institute should be given consideration by at least some members opposite. They should consider the various matters that will be placed before the Committee. In general, I object very strongly to and resent the idea of approaching a matter such as this at 11.45 p.m. or at any late hour any night. 
-It is interesting to note that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  having established his memorial at Cape Pallarenda, has vanished from the field. The amendment which the Opposition is placing before the House gives honourable members an opportunity to consider the actual structure of such an institute as is being formed so that we can bring a greater consideration to bear upon it than appears to me to have been brought to bear by the people who have drafted the legislation. The legislation says that the Council shall consist of a  chairman  and 4 other members. My belief, which is based upon my experience as a member of the National Library Council, is that that would be much too small to solve the problems, answer the questions and have the flexibility necessary for such an operation. 
What we are proposing to establish is a national institute, the responsibilities of which will range over a very wide area of Australia, its territories, all the sea around about - millions of square miles - and countless different scientific operations. The Australian Labor Party and I believe that it is important that the people who are charged with this duty have enough support amongst their own members to be able to cover the wide field. I put it before the Committee, from my experience of sitting on the Council of the National Library, that even 7 or 8 on a council of this nature is too small a number. We only need one or two people on a body such as this to be away, out of the State, unable to come or absent from the country and it cannot work. It only needs to expand its interest into some newer fields of science or some different field of biological or marine science and it does not work effectively. At the present moment the Council of the National Library would like its numbers to be expanded so it can take in other areas of learning. 
I believe that the Minister should have applied himself more studiously to this general question of the establishment of statutory authorities. Therefore we place before the Committee considerations of this nature. I say, as I said earlier, that it is disappointing that honourable members opposite are not turning their minds to the question at all. We believe that an institute such as this should be representative of the learned bodies associated with this particular field of science. We believe we should pay a compliment to people such as those on the staff of the Academy of Science by asking them to submit a panel of names for the position of  chairman.  I believe also - this has been established practice in several other institutions - that the Parliament itself should be represented on such bodies. I do not believe that this Parliament involves itself in great enough depth in the administeration of the country. There are countless opportunities in instances such as this for all of us to be involved in the administration of bodies established by the Parliament to carry out the nation's work. Therefore, just as the Parliament is represented on the Council of the Australian National Univesity, the Institute of Aboriginal Studies and the Council of the National' Library, the membership of the Parliament itself ought to be represented on the Council of this Institute. 
I only regret that this matter has been brought before the Parliament at this time and in this manner. The very way we operate in considering such a matter does not really allow honourble members opposte a chance to examine the measure in the depth to which it is entitled to be examined. We on this side of the Parliament sat down and considered the matter at some length. We had before us people who were prepared to give us advice about the matter. That is the reason why these amendments are before the Committee. As I say, it is disappointing that we can get no adequate consideration of it, and I resent the fact that what consideration is possible is being pursued at midnight. I do not believe that we are paying a proper compliment to the task that this Institute has to perform. I hope that the Minister will give serious consideration to the matters we have placed before him. 
It ls my great courtesy to do so. However, I do not withdraw anything I mentioned about the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  The honourable member is always here to vote for the gag or to keep us in this place after dark. But when he is making such great efforts to gain haloes for himself he should stay in his place and take part in the consideration of the Bill under discussion. As far as the construction of the council is concerned, I say from my experience that the number proposed will be too small for the job. I say this for all sorts of reasons. Because of the size of the country and the kind of people who are going to be employed in, or appointed to. the council, there just will not be a decent number of people operating all of the time. That is a consideration of some importance. 
On the question of the actual membership, the suggestion of the Australian 
Labor Party is not that someone would be appointed to represent the Australian Academy of Science, but in fact that this learned body that covers people in the scientific area ought to be entitled to be considered, and in the general relationships of things a panel submitted to the Minister would cover the kind of people he would himself appoint. I think it is necessary in a consideration of government appointments that all sorts of names which may not naturally flow to the Minister's desk should be placed before him. Also there is the question of the membership of the Parliament and the responsibilities of Parliament in this matter. I do not believe that this is simply a scientific question. I believe it is a question of the responsibility of the Parlia-ment to administer the affairs of the nation more directly than it does at the moment. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is directly responsible for the administration of a large number of matters. 1 will say this about him: As far as I can tell he tries to keep in touch with them; he has a good idea of what goes on although he does not do as much about the things that ought to go on as he should. However, he accepts this responsibility as a member of the Parliament. 
I believe, the Labor Party believes and in other instances the Parliament has believed, that these organisations councils or statutory bodies are advantaged by having the members of the Parliament directly represented on them. One honourable member has interjected and asked: 'Why handicap them?' We can always leave people of that sort off. The facts are that there is a direct representative responsibility imposed upon this Parliament which also ought to be carried into instumentalities which carry out the Parliament's intentions. As the Minister said, this perhaps is a difference in philosophy between this side  And  the other side of the chamber; but  in  fact, in general, the Party on the other side moves  in  this direction on occasions. 
I wish that we could have given the matter more consideration and that better machinery was available for across the table consideration of  it.  I am sure that,  if  we had a committee system operating in the place, we would arrive at a better communion about these matters. Instead of the committee system in this Parliament being a confrontation, there should be a consultation and a communion about it. Unfortunately, that will not happen. However, we are offering the Minister our best wishes and, if we have to wait 6 months to fix it, patience will bring its own reward. 
In Part IV of the Bill the position of the Director of the Institute, the powers of the Council, the powers of the GovernorGeneral and the powers of the Minister are outlined. We believe that the general principles behind this matter ought to be studied more closely and that as a matter of principle the Director of the Institute ought to be more directly responsible to the actual Council of the Institute; therefore, he ought to be appointed on the recommendation of the Council. This would mean that the Minister or the GovernorGeneralinCouncil would have the right of veto if the person recommended was totally unacceptable to the government of the day. As I understand the position in universities, the vice-chancellor, who is the senior executive officer in a university, is appointed by the university council, and the same position should apply with this Institute. 
In Part IV of the Bill- and I will refer to this matter now in order to save one's saying these things again - the question of salary arises. I will raise this question now so that I will not have to speak on it when we come to consider clauses 24 and 29 which cover this general question. One provides that the Director shall be paid a salary at such rate as the Parliament determines. This is an impossible provision in many ways. We know that once such a decision is made by the Parliament it is easy for the Director's salary to be frozen because it is not possible to keep up with developments outside the Institute, and so on. There is also the provision in clause 29 of the Bill that the Director shall not engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office except with the approval of the Minister. Again we believe that that question ought to be resolved by the Council. 
I believe that this Parliament has to pay much more attention to the way in which it is to control statutory authorities, to the way in which it is to be involved in these matters and to the way in which they are to operate. We have the general principles which we have established through the operations of the Public Service Board. We have the conciliation and arbitration processes, and so on. But in fact, if we are to set up an independent body, and if we are to recruit to the Council the kind of people who can manage this Institute, we have to place the responsibility for the actual nomination of the Council's executive officer in the hands of the Council - subject to the right of veto. The salary of the Director has to be adjusted to the rates applying in the rest of the community. Therefore, the determination of the Director's salary ought to be in the hands of the Council - perhaps subject to some veto provision. Other questions ought to be reserved for the Minister. Some of the more simple administrative matters ought not to be reserved to the Minister; again they should be matters for the Council. We on this side of the House do not believe that ministerial responsibility ought to be removed or mutilated. But we do believe that when we appoint a Council such as this it should have the kind of authority which can make its work effective and make the membership of it feel that it has some substance. Therefore the director ought to be directly responsible to the Council. If we study the statutory bodies which the Commonwealth has established we will find that there is quite a great difference between them. Possibly it is time that Parliament gave close examination to this general question and established some general principles for the next 5, 10 or IS years instead of the ad hoc arrangements which come up from time to time in matters such as this. 
I second those amendments. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 29 and 30 - by leave - taken together. 
Clause 29.  (1.) The Director shall not engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office except with the approval of the Minister. (2.) The Minister shall not give an approval for the purposes of  the  last preceding sub-section unless he is satisfied that the paid employment will not interfere with the performance of the duties of the Director under this Act 
Clause 30.  (1.) Where- 
there is a vacancy in the office of Director, whether or not an appointment has previously been made to the office; or 
the Director is, or is about to be, absent or, for any reason, unable to perform the functions of his office, the Minister may appoint a person who has not attained the age of 65 years to act as the Director until the filling of the vacancy or during the absence or inability. (2.) The Minister may- 
subject to this Act, determine the terms and conditions of appointment of an Acting Director; and 
at any time terminate such an appointment (3.) The appointment of an Acting Director made in anticipation of the absence or inability of the Director has effect from and including the day on which the absence or inability commences. (4.) The appointment of an Acting Director ceases to have effect if - 
he attains the age of 65 years; or 
he resigns the appointment by writing under hishand addressed to the Minister and the resignation is accepted by the Minister. (5.) While the appointment of an Acting Director remains in force, he has, and may exercise, all the powers and shall perform all the functions of the Director. 
My own belief is that an unnecessary imposition is placed on the Minister by this clause. The matter should be covered by the Director reporting paid employment outside his duties to the Minister rather than having to obtain the Minister's approval. Perhaps the Minister can disagree afterwards. I support the amendments moved by my friend from Fremantle  (Mr Beazley). 
Amendments negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 31 and 32 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 33.  (1.) Subject to this Part, the Council may appoint such officers of the Institute as it thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act. (2.) Except with the approval of the Minister a person shall not be appointed under this section unless - 
he is a British subject; 
the Institute is satisfied, upon medical examination, as to his health and physical fitness; and 
he makes and subscribes, before a justice of the peace or a commissioner for taking affidavits, an oath or affirmation of allegiance in accordance with the form of oath or affirmation in the Schedule to this Act. 
The Opposition is of the view that there is no necessity for a prospective officer to be a British subject, as my colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has suggested. Recently in the debate on the Commonwealth teaching service legislation it was pointed out that this requirement was totally irrelevant in this sort of situation. I believe that in the scientific world this provision is not only redundant and irrelevant but also bad and wrong. We should not impose this sort of restriction upon persons engaged in this field of operation. As I understand the position, academics move around the world to advantage. There is an international world of learning in the sciences and we should encourage it. Paragraph (b) requires the Institute to be satisfied, upon medical examination, as to the health and physical fitness of an applicant. I believe that that, too, is an unreal requirement in modern times. 
We are looking for a person's intellectual attainments and scientific capacity and it should not matter whether he is physically fit in terms of ordinary standards, so long as he can bring his intellectual capacities to his work. There have been plenty of instances of people who, had they been required to pass a medical examination, would not have done so and therefore would not have produced wonderful work. Paragraph (c) requires an applicant to make an oath or affirmation of allegiance. I personally believe that that belongs to the Dark Ages and does not produce a satisfactory result in a search for the right people for this work. It is not the kind of operation one would fight strenuously but in fact one's loyalty and so on are not based upon subscribing to any oath but to other factors. We believe that in respect of an Australian corporation operating in a community which already has within its shores somewhere near 1,500,000 people who are not naturalised or who have not been in the country for very long, the provisions contained in this paragraph are unnecessary and may well inhibit the recruitment of staff. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 34 and 35  -  by leave - taken together. 
Clause 34. 
Officers are not subject to the Public Service Act 1922-1972 but hold office on such terms and conditions as are, subject to the approval of the Public Service Board, determined by the Council. 
Clause 35.  (1.) Subject to this part, the Council may employ such temporary or casual employees of the Institute as the Council thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act. (2.) The selection of persons for engagement as employees under this section shall be made in accordance with such requirements as the Public Service Board determines. (3.) A person shall not be employed under this section unless, if he is required by the Council to do so, he makes and subscribes, before a justice of the peace or a commissioner for taking affidavits, an oath or affirmation of allegiance in accordance with the form in the Schedule to this Act. (4.) The terms and conditions of employment of employees shall be such as are, subject to the approval of the Public Service Board, determined by the Council. 
What is wrong with this place? 
Well, there is one way of testing that. The honourable member who interjected could try to stand for the electorate of Wills. No-one currently seems to be trying to do that. I understand that we are to proceed now to debate legislation which has been on the notice paper for 2 years. Grievance Day is one of the few occasions on which members of this Parliament can debate the matters with which they are concerned, but today we are to be deprived of this opportunity. Last night, the Government gagged the adjournment debate at 2 o'clock. What is the Grievance Day debate which is to be suspended? It is the opportunity for honourable members to raise in this place matters which concern them particularly or matters in which they have genera) interest. In my own instance, I have been waiting for some time for an opportunity to raise the question of the Aboriginal people of Australia, as one could do on Grievance Day. I was hoping to do it in the debate on the Appropriation Bill or on the Supply Bill but no, we have made agreements. We have cut down the time for debate and sliced it up into small parts, as a result of which very few people can take part in it. 
I believe that there is something wrong with all of us if we allow a handful of people who sit on the front bench opposite to decide the way in which this Parliament is run. In this instance, we are being run like a third rate progress association. My arithmetic says that it is 935 days since the last election. We are now meeting on the 175th day. We do not meet enough. Wc allow ourselves to be circumscribed in debate. We allow every privilege of an ordinary member to be trodden upon and removed from him, and we all just sit here. When 1 stand up honourable members opposite say: 'There you go again'. They smirk at that remark. Honourable members on my side also have allowed themselves to become doormats. 1 believe that it is time the Parliament took a good sharp look at itself. 
There were 3 or 4 matters that I would have liked to raise today - the question of Aborigines, the failure of the Government to do anything about attempting to produce a ceasefire in Vietnam and the occupation of this place in a short time by SEATO representatives. Shortly Foreign Ministers of some other countries are going to sit in this chamber and talk their heads off about foreign affairs. But are we allowed to talk about foreign affairs? When will the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  make a statement so that we can debate it at great length? 1 hope that when the people of Australia come to the next election they will take as a major issue of policy the manner in which this Parliament is run and the slow and continual denigration and degradation of this institution over the last 10 or 15 years and, in particular, the last 5 or 6 years. The principal villain of the piece is the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  If somebody would come with me I would start a campaign in Toowoomba to let the people of his electorate know what he is doing to the parliamentary institution, which belongs to them and which he is reducing to a complete and absolute failure as a representative legislative democratic institution. 

 - Mr Deputy 

Speaker,I wish to make a personal representation. 
 I think it is important that the people who are listening to the parliamentary broadcast this evening should know that the Bill as originally placed before the House has been so watered down that finally the ludicrous stage has been reached where provision has been made for a 3 seconds spot on television to warn of the dangers of cigarette smoking. Even the earlier proposed 5 seconds was not much. One needs only to think of how many words are proposed to be spoken in 3 seconds to realise what is involved. Three seconds represents almost a flick of the fingers. It seems to me that as proceedings have progressed this evening the Government needs only compound its hypocrisy by making sure that every managing director of every tobacco company in Australia receives a knighthood in the next Queen's Honours List. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I wish to make a brief comment. Two or three days ago the notice paper was printed. Standing order 105 gives the Minister the right to adjust the order of business. Why is it that we must have these last minute arrangements about the order of business? Why could it not have been arranged last Thursday, before the notice paper was printed, that this was to be the order of debate today? I think it is time that the Minister in charge really looked at this question if he wants to run the Parliament as a representative sample for the community. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That was a disappointing speech from such a distinguished member of the Government parties, a member of the Cabinet and a former Minister for Defence. The only thing that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  talked about was a misinterpretation or misunderstanding of the policies of the Australian Labor Party. I for one hope that the Labor Party's policies have a Left bias. 1 think that the world has had enough of the reactionaries, right wingers and all the rest who say that there are some values greater than human beings. For the last quarter of an hour the Minister has been spreading a McCarthyist doctrine across the floor of this chamber. ] do not think that it has done him much credit, 1 do not think that it does this Parliament much credit, and it certainly has not added anything to the debate. Why have we not heard from the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr 
Turner) this afternoon. He holds the exalted position of  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. 1 think that 1 can discharge most of the remarks of the honourable member for Wannon and Minister of State for Education and Science from much further discussion. 
We are discussing Australia's position in the world. The honourable member for Wannon wants to know the genesis of the policy of the Labor Party, of which I am just one member. But for 16 or 17 years I have sat in on discussions in committees of this Parliament and discussions outside in the non-parliamentary area of the Labor movement. Firstly, we are anti-war. Secondly, we believe in the constructive development of peaceful relations between human beings. Some 27 years ago I stood on a hill in Borneo and heard the announcement of the end of the war - a most ferocious war against the Japanese in which no quarter was given. Within a few weeks one found that the people with whom one had fought with great savagery were human beings like everybody else. After a few weeks the people who had fought against one another so furiously had to be prevented from fraternisation. I do not know why they were prevented from fraternisation, but orders were orders. I made a personal resolve then that as far as I was concerned there would be no more wars for young Australians to fight. So I am minded of the noble words contained in the United Nations Charter: 
We the peoples of the United Nations determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind, and to affirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small. . . . 
The preamble to the Schedule of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation states: 
. that since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed. . . . 
The sad thing about the speeches from the other side of the chamber, with 2 notable exceptions, is the failure to express the hopes and aspirations of humanity and the failure to do anything about dragging this Government into 1972. The honourable member for Wannon and Minister for Education and Science referred to a few items of Labor Party policy. He referred to the crossing out of the word 'crucial* from our reference to our relationship with the United States. I took a little part in doing that. It was not generated in the Communist Party at all, but in the foreign affairs committee of the Labor Party in Victoria a couple of years ago. The proposal was sent forward to the State conference of the Labor Party and from there it went forward to the Federal conference. I believe that the idea that somebody else is crucial to our defence, our welfare and our strength is an abdication of our sense of self-reliance. 
What of the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)?  I personally wish that the name of his Department had not been changed. I think that the term 'Foreign Affairs' is a piece of 19th century vanity. I should like to think that we were setting out to try to prevent anybody in the world from being foreigners. The Minister's statement contained the old stuff that we have heard for years. The right honourable Lord Casey, when he was Minister, used to give us travelogues. The present Minister gives us catalogues. He went round the world and he has described to us what is happening. He did not look at the world as a laboratory in which Australia could practise some social adventure and try to develop new attitudes in the world. He treats it as a museum. The Minister wanders around and looks at things that are happening. He has no prescriptions for anything.  His  statement is negative, descriptive and unhopeful. Of course, in a world of change the Minister has nothing to change. He has a treaty neurosis. If we look at the statement we see that he is obsessed with military treaties. 1 believe that while military treaties are handy, they ought to be in the background. They are not the elements which make foreign policy or produce a peaceful and co-operative world. 
The Minister approaches every constructive proposal from everybody else with an attitude of scepticism. This happened to the proposals from the Government of Ceylon, which is now the Republic of Sri Lanka. I thought that the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  expressed the phobia of honourable members opposite when he talked about the world being made up of communists and others, and he said that the 'others' were the democrats. There are 14 or 15 communist countries. There are perhaps 14 or 15 democratic countries, even judged by the present Victorian or Queensland standards. The rest of the countries have governments which are a long way away from the governments under which most of us live. After the J 6 or 17 years for which he has been a member of this Parliament, the honourable member for Henty is still obsessed about the Cold War and an attitude of Australia's helplessness. I have never believed that we are helpless. I have never believed that basically we cannot look after ourselves. I believe that in the last few years there has become an increasing realisation that we do not need to be fearful of the people to our north, that we do not need to look around to find somebody's apron strings to be tied to. 
I believe that this is a time in which we should be examining the seeds of war. Where are they? Once upon a time it was almost anything. In the last 10, 15 or 20 years there have been countless operations which, if they had occurred in the 1930s, would have brought countries to war instantly, but that did not happen. I suppose that the present operation in Vietnam is a case in point. The Americans and the Russians are almost totally involved materially but not personally. There is a charade going on in Moscow; the 2 leaders of these great nations are sitting down perhaps to a late supper, early supper or afternoon tea at the same time as their machines of destruction are destroying the Vietnamese people. If both of them refused to supply the materials of war, the war would come to a halt. I believe that the principal mischief of war lies in the retailing of arms between nations and between private individuals. But in fact if something can come out of this muscovite meeting, if there is some rapprochement or detente - I think that is the word we use now - between these 2 nations, probably we will not get the seeds of war, which presently exist, but the seeds of peace. 
I believe that there is an unlikelihood of the kind of war that we knew in World War I and World War II developing between other nations, but in the next 10 or 15 years there could be a conflict between the Russians and the Americans. I believe that the mischief makers of the world at the present time are the international arms suppliers, of which Britain, France and Eastern European countries are the principal ones, and that the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics are the principal villains. It seems to me that Vietnam is the country in which we test this out. What is the war in Vietnam all about? Honourable members on both sides of the chamber know full well my attitude to the war. I am not on either side. I was horrified when the Americans dropped bombs on Dong Hoi in 1965. I am equally horrified at the decision of the North Vietnamese command to launch its forces into South Vietnam, knowing full well that they cannot do this without destroying countless thousands of hapless citizens. I do not believe that national unity is worth the destruction of humanity. I believe that 1954 produced a stack of myths which have flowed on down through history and in which we have all become involved. Apart from the people of Vietnam, we have the poor, forgotten people of Laos and the embroiled people of Cambodia or, as it is now called, the Khmer Republic. Somehow it is our duty as a Parliament, and surely it is the duty of this Government, to try to find a way out of this morass - to try to do something constructive to prevent these people destroying one another. I know the difficulties. 
The Democratic Republic of Vietnam - North Vietnam to all of us - is one of the world's most isolated countries. It is almost unknown. I am told that at the Convention of Orientalists in Canberra last year when an American rose and made statements about North Vietnam a Russian attacked him and asked: 'How can you know how it works? Even we do not know'. It is totally intransigent and, of course, it has the Chinese and the Russians on the hook. They cannot get off the hook. The South Vietnamese have the Americans on the hook and the Vietnamese are destroying one another because these countries cannot find some way of solving the problem, of stopping the flow of arms and arriving at some point of neutrality because of their relative powerlessness to hurt one another. Of course it is a difficult proposition to intervene, but we should be doing something. We should be exercising all our diplomatic strength to try to create around the world the kind of public international atmosphere which does produce some response from the big powers. International opinion can prevent some things happening. I instance the projected execution of some people in Russia a couple of years back. Surely international public opinion should be brought to bear upon the Russians and the Americans to arrive at some more satisfactory conclusion of this war. 
Australia is in a unique position. My principal complaint about honourable members opposite and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  is that they fail to recognise this fact. Australia is prosperous, largely free democratically and strategically secure, and possessed of advantages which no other country has. New Zealand probably is as geographically secure but it is not as big and is not in as good a position to look after itself. Australia should be taking the prescriptions of peace and trying to generate world public opinion in support of them. There must be 40 to 50 other Foreign Ministers who could be induced by our Minister for Foreign Affairs to support such proposals. After all, if the Minister for Foreign Affairs can con the people of Parramatta into returning him to this place he should be able to do something with the other Foreign Ministers of the world. 
Somehow we must get accepted the view that the sanctity of human life which we have in domestic affairs applies to international affairs. Where should we start? Should we not get some international agreement that boundaries are sacrosanct - that frontiers will be recognised and no armies allowed to cross them? We must develop some kind of international respect for sovereignty and neutrality. I know it will be a long haul, but we should have started in Cambodia some 5 or 6 years ago. When I returned from visiting that country in 1966 I said - this is on the record - that the next threat was to Cambodia and that we should start to develop an international protection for its neutrality and sovereignty. We should have started in 1966. By 1970 or 1971 we might have generated an international atmosphere so that Cambodia was preserved from the horrors of war. I have a deep pity for the people of Cambodia and Laos. 
We should work at trying to stop the international trade in arms. I must admit that I have come to the conclusion that Australia should not sell arms to other countries. Certainly there may be a level on which it can be said that there are arms of aggression and arms of non-aggression. Some things cannot be used for aggressive purposes; some can be. We should be trying to generate throughout the world an international treaty, perhaps of the same order as the one concerning the nonproliferation of nUclear weapons, towards this end, so that Britain will not sell arms to South Africa and no country will supply arms to Israel or the Arab countries. Australia is in a unique position to seek the determination of such a treaty. Australia can be more objective, because it is safer than other countries. Of course in the first instance people will say that this is cynicism on our part, but we must face this. It is important that the war in Vietnam be stopped. A victory for North Vietnam is not a victory for communism but a defeat for the peaceful settlement of international disputes. It is not American foreign policy which is on trial in Vietnam nor is it ,hi success of Vietnamisation: It is the world's capacity to prevent war. The great disappointment I have at present is that Australia has taken no concrete steps so far in determining to generate the kind of opinion that Australia, as part of the 40 or 50 nations like itself, should support. We must try to provide the dynamics to create this kind of world opinion. 
If I can make a personal appeal across the floor of the House to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I do so now, particularly for the people of Cambodia and Laos but also for the people of Vietnam who are being slaughtered, I believe because of the sheer, abstract, inhumane attitude to world affairs of the 2 great powers, Russia and America. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I refer to the answer which the Minister for Education and Science gave to the honourable member for Deakin. Are we to understand from his answer that he accepts the same financial responsibility for dependent schools as he does for state schools? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Swartz's)  be agreed to. 
I would just like to add a word. Am I to understand from the petulant way in which the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  sat down that he does not think that people ought to stand up and express their views when a matter such as this is before the House? Of course this is what we are discussing - whether the Ministry owns the ways and works of the Parliament or whether the Parliament does. All I want to say on behalf of the ones to whom the Public Works Committee belongs is that I support in their entirety the remarks made particularly by my friend, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  and the attitude that he has expressed. 
The Public Works Committee has been going for 60 years. It belongs to this Parliament. It does not belong to the Prime Minister. I suppose that one of the errors we have made is that we have not paid enough attention to the reports of committees, such as the Public Works Committee and Public Accounts Committee, when they have come before us. In fact we ought to be devoting more time to these reports, but perhaps we ought even to have a better way of reporting and a more intimate way of considering the reports. I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has done the whole system a disservice, and the least he could do is perhaps come into this House and apologise. I presume that he will not do that because one of his great deficiencies is that be in fact is not a parliamentarian. He entered this Parliament in 1949. He was a Minister from 1951- 
I make one brief comment. I do not think there is any better commentary upon the Liberal Party and Country Party members than the fact that this coalition Government is putting a Bill such as this through this House at the same time as it is opposing an agreement between waterside workers and their employers in regard to salaries. Nothing demonstrates more completely the utter hypocrisy of the Government parties. 
I make one point. I think it is important that people have ready access to members of Parliament by whatever methods it is possible to distribute material to them. I regard that as a fundamental principle on which this place ought to operate. If someone wants to get something through to the 185 of us I cannot see that we can justify charging him 7c for each member to do it. I only presume from the ruling that has been given that obscenity is not obscenity unless it is free. 
I address my question to the Minister for Education and Science in his capacity as representing here the posh private schools. Is it correct- 
asked the Prime Minister.  upon notice: 
How many graduate clerks were admitted to the Commonwealth Public Service in 1971 and 1972. 
What disciplines are represented in each year's intake. 
What criteria were adopted in selecting qualifications for entry. 
How many qualified applicants for entry to the Service were rejected. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
We are debating here an example of governmental thuggery and this is another example- 
On a point of order, I was on my feet before the motion was moved. 
1  am interested in the point which has been taken already by the Government of Papua New Guinea, namely, that it needs much more parliamentary control over the affairs of its country. I believe that for too long parliaments have been inhibited in this approach and we have restricted the numbers of Ministers and' so on. I know that all the members of the House do not feel the same way as I do about this matter but I believe that the only way the people of Papua New Guinea will control the development of their country is by the expansion of parliamentary control over the executive and legislative power of the nation. Therefore, I hope that its ministerial system develops with a full rapport between the people and the Parliament. I hope that they do not fall for the aberration which afflicts us here by which we have this junta or clique or however it is known - the Cabinet for colloquial reasons - and the mini-Ministry outside. I do not believe that the parliamentary system should encourage in any .way different levels of parliamentary participation. I congratulate the Ministry of Papua New Guinea for the perception with which it has approached the problem of parliamentary control of national affairs. 
One does not need to turn back to the Hansard debates of 1937 to look into this matter of defence. One has only to listen to the remarks of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  I do not suppose anybody lives more effectively in the past than does the honourable gentleman. He sneers at my colleague the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  It eats deep into the heart of members of the Liberal and Country Parties that someone who has had a long and dintinguished career in the Diplomatic Service has chosen to serve in the Labor Party. Take the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is sitting at the table.  His  greatest contribution to politics is to sneer at everybody else. I know that he can sneer at people who have served this country as has the honourable member for St George. The point about this whether one agrees or disagrees is that they served their country in reasonably senior positions in many parts of the world. I do not believe that there is anything to be gained for this Parliament by constant sneering at people for what they have done in the past. The argument tonight is what we are doing now and how we should consider the question of defence. 
The honourable member for La Trobe consistently and constantly pours scorn on people on this side of the House. The honourable member has deep convictions about all things that have been raised in this discussion. I believe, as 1 said earlier, that he lives in the past. I will not scorn his remarks on that account. I believe that there is a big difference - and the honourable member said so too - in the general concept of defence as we on this side see it and as honourable members opposite choose to speak about it. I presume they see it that way. There is a clear-cut division between us. 
That is right, you can thank God and the people of Australia will be able to thank God and they will be able to thank the Treasury when we start to make some practical application of the finances of Australia towards this question. This Government is facing a new world with old shibboleths. Government supporters talk about expansion of military defence and all the rest of it at a time when the rest of the world is slowing down the aggressive tendencies between nations. The honourable member for La Trobe talked about our potential enemies. Who are they? Is he referring to China? Is there any evidence anywhere that China has that kind of an ambition? One cannot see it anywhere. A few months ago I attended a conference in Melbourne conducted by the Australian Institute of International Affairs. One of the American experts at the conference said that he did not believe - that nobody believed - that the People's Republic of China could even successfully launch an assault upon Taiwan. To whom was the honourable member for La Trobe referring? Was it the people of the Khmer Republic? 
Monaco, that is right. All I ask is that in a matter which concerns some SI, 300m per annum. 2 or 3 times the total cost of the Victorian railway system or one and a half times the cost of the Snowy mountains scheme, we should apply rational common sense and an Australian approach. None of us is going to say that we have absolute answers. I do not. But I believe that in the world military tensions are diminishing. Our closest foreign neighbour has about 300,000 men under arms. In general its military and naval capacity is almost nil. Is that a threat? Does anybody suggest that Indonesia poses a threat? Nobody on this side of the House and probably nobody in this country would say that we should wipe our defence capability on that account. However, I am certain that you have to look at it in a totally different way from that of honourable members opposite. 
The question of sea defence has been raised. My colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  questioned the value of our destroyers, as did the 

 Deputy Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  None of us knows the answers. I would like to see Australia embarking on an ambitious project in a manufacturing sense. Is this the answer to the deep scientific question of how to find submarines in 6 million square miles of sea? I believe that the greatest scientific effort which could be mustered in this country should be directed to that question. If a threat can come only by sea - and I think that is the case - it can be a viable threat only if it is by submarine, because I presume that we can locate surface vessels thousands of miles away. We have to find a system of locating submarines on the surface or under water. Nobody has yet found it but it should not be beyond the wit of men who have developed radar and other such equipment. In my view, the hundreds of millions of dollars that may well be spent on destroyers would better be spent on the development of scientific techniques to locate submarines under wat,-r because I believe that a submarine located under water is a submarine potentially destroyed. 1 turn now to the concept of the Government announced by the Minister for Defence. He used the terminology that Australia does not now need the full air warfare capability necessary for a major combat burden. I agree with him. But this also means that in the other Services we do not need a full commitment of a major combat burden. In this regard we question national service as a military necessity. We on this side of the House - and, I believe, the great majority of Australians also - question national service in a moral sense. I believe that the present national service system is a piece of mindless militarism. It is something that has flowed down through the last 20 or 30 years, ad hoc sometimes, here and there, developed by Vietnam and sponsored and maintained by the terror of the preference votes of the Democratic Labor Party. I believe that it is economically wasteful. I understand that national service costs about $90m a year and in my view it is militarily unnecessary. 
At this time of night in a debate such as this one cannot develop an argument at great length but I ask: Why 9 battalions? Suddenly we are told that we need 40,000 men. Why 40,000 men? Is it something out of the past related to the 40,000 horsemen, or what is it? At the height of the Korean conflict we had 27,000 men in the Australian Army. Why do we now need 9 battalions? I challenge the way in which they are trained. I believe that the whole concept is wrong. J believe that Australian soldiers are probably the world's best men on the ground - in the jungle. I have no complaint about the effectiveness of their training on the ground but I cannot be convinced that the 9 battalions of young men who are standing around, sitting around, painting the stones around the officers' mess, peeling potatoes for lunch or whatever else they are doing are gainfully employed, usefully employed or necessary in a military sense. 
I believe that national service disrupts the whole system of national employment. It takes over highly skilled professional manpower, absorbs it and totally strangles it. It takes up space. Has any honourable member driven past the barracks at Townsville and had a good look at the establishment? What on earth do we want that establishment there for? There is no possible threat in the foreseeable future. Surely that is what my friend the Minister for Defence means when he says that we do not need this combat capability. Therefore those young men are waiting for something that can never come during their service. They are in for 18 months. They make extraordinary demands on materials and administration. I believe that national service ruins the Citizen Military Forces and divides the community. My friends opposite say that its abandonment would min the Army. The Army is only a part of the armed Services. 
I have some doubts about the arithmetic. Honourable members opposite say that we cannot get volunteers. At present about 80,000 young men are serving as regulars, of whom on my arithmetic, based on the reports, 68,000 are volunteers. About 12,000 of them are national servicemen. We were asked to comment upon the statements of General Daly. He is now retired so that he can be quoted and we can try to refute his arguments. He had long and distinguished service. He said that to change national service would disrupt the system. He said that if we abandoned it and the 12,000 national servicemen went out of the Services we would have to dispense with 4,000 officers and non-commissioned officers. So that for every 3 national servicemen apparently we have to have one officer or non-commissioned officer. 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  implied that if we took that action the officers and NCOs would have nothing to train on. What an incredibly ruthless way to treat young Australians. We want 12,000 young men to train with - to fill the gaps so that others can become corporals, sergeants, colonels and generals. I think it is an incredibly ruthless and insensitive approach. We are using the young men of Australia as training and position-sop fodder. 1 do not believe it is necessary. I believe that the question goes back fundamentally to the citizen forces. 1 believe that we have abandoned the citizen forces and turned them into a Cinderella army. We have destroyed their capacity to be trained properly and we have destroyed the will of the young men who would join those forces. 
I suppose I am saying the same thing as my friend the honourable member for La Trobe. We have always had citizen forces on the books. Back in 1938 or thereabouts the number of volunteers in the citizen forces was raised to about 80,000. I do not have the figures at hand. 
It was 87,000 volunteers. Admittedly there was the pressure of the threat of war, and all the rest of it. 
No, we did not join the citizen forces because we were unemployed. I think they paid us 4 bob a day, 7 days of the year at that stage. The basis of national defence is national unity and national morale. They are the key to it all. It will not matter what sort of numbers you have if you do not have unity and high morale. Perhaps ' the citizen forces should be separated from the regular forces, at least in the Army. My belief would be - and it has not always been my belief - that the integration of these forces means that the citizen force loses its identity and it becomes in effect a Cinderella force. There ought to be a Citizen Military Force with its own command. 
What are the essentials of citizen service? What can the amateurs do? The amateurs can do almost anything. One has only to study what the National Air Guard of the United States does. Its members fly Phantoms and other supersonic jets. I have seen them doing it. I have visited their bases and have talked to them. 1 think that we completely underrate the technical and other skills that lie dormant in the community and are not called upon in any way. If we created an efficient mechanised citizen force with a sense of purpose I have no doubt that we would have no difficulty in filling its ranks. 
First of all, it needs good equipment. It has to have first class equipment. If a person is to give up his weekends for 7 days or 21 days a year to train, there is nothing so exasperating, frustrating and disheartening as to take over equipment and find that it will not work or that there is not enough of it. Perhaps an even more important factor is training. This is what those 4,000 men could do. They could be training young men who are much more capable in all the areas of ordinary human endeavour than our generation was. They live in a world of mechanics, machines and electronics. They can handle anything. I know they can. However, we have not yet found a way of getting them into the Services. I believe that that possibility has been destroyed over the last 7 or 8 years, particularly by national service. We have to do something about the public attitude, their employment and so on. What I have said is feasible. 
Let us assume that in a city such as Canberra a large citizen force is based. We might, as the Swiss do, at an air base have half a dozen first class aircraft available for training purposes. I understand that this is the way the Swiss do it: When a person has free time he reports to the base and does his flying. In Switzerland the man is uphill. He cannot fly very far before he has to turn round and fly back. The Air National Guard does much the same as the Swiss. Let us assume that in Australia we had some basic armoured formation of perhaps 20 or 30 tanks, which was a local unit. Here, in this community, are the backdrop services - the workshops. We do not need to create new ones. Here in this community are dozens of young men who drive heavy equipment. I simply throw these ideas into the ring. 
I believe that national service is on its way out. It inevitably must go whether the Government is running the show and ruining it or we are running it. I believe we must start to look at the question of defence in a totally different way. Before I resume my seat there is one matter I wish to mention, although it is not totally relevant to what I have been saying. I refer to the re-equipment of our Australian forces with armour. 1 think it is wrong to go traipsing around the world looking for somebody else's armour which will not fit Australian conditions. Australia has one of the world's largest automotive industries. Our defence services should plan and design armour and it should be given to our automotive industry to develop. This could be done in such a way that use is made of Australian transport services. We have thousands upon thousands of heavy vehicles which could carry the armour around. There are many ways in which the Australian Services and our civilian capacity could be integrated. 
I understand that we are limited in time in the debate on this Bill and that we should cut our speaking time down to 10 or 12 minutes each. I do not approve of that proposal but I will agree to it in keeping with my normal co-operative attitude. I only wish that that attitude could seep across to the other side of the House and- that honourable members opposite could realise that these issues have to be debated at some length. Goodness knows when we will get around to a full debate on the marathon discussions or the omnibus statements that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been making. I suppose this matter is the, 'Blue Hills' of the .Department of Education and Science. Back in 1968 it started to make money available for the building of teachers training colleges. Some time last year it had to extend the time for expenditure of this money to the end of June 1971. Then.it was extended to 1972 and now, here we are in business again extending the -time for the expenditure of the magnificent sum of about $2.5m - about half the cost of . a Boeing- throughout the. whole of Australia until 1973. This simply demonstrates the approach of this Government to almost everything it does and to all those things it should do. It is dilatory in action and perfunctory in its acceptance of responsibility and I believe that this legislation shows the total inadequacy of its concept of education. 
What is this Bill about? It is an effort to launch pre-school education on a new wave length for the 1970s. What does it do? All it does is compound the existing inadequacies and the existing differences between States. There has been no effort made to reduce the inequalities between States, areas or in any other sphere. This is the typical Commonwealth attitude of largesse, but let somebody else accept the responsibility. It would be quite instructive for people to read what has happened in the field of pre-school education. The bodies to whom we have passed responsibility are private institutions. They have no resources at their disposal to cope with local councils, to acquire land compulsorily or anything else. The slightest administrative hookup and they have to stop in their tracks. One has only to consider the general position; in Canberra 52 per cent of children of the appropriate age attend preschools while in New South Wales it is 3.1 per cent, in Victoria it is 28.9 per cent and in Queensland it is 13.2 per cent. Even the Northern Territory has managed to get to 34 per cent. 
There can be no adequacy in the Commonwealth's approach unless it accepts the responsibility to give every Australian equal access to whatever kind of education is going, whether it is tertiary, technical or pre-school education. It is the fundamental responsibility of this Parliament to see that Australians are treated equally wherever they are born and whatever their social or economic background. The Australian Labor Party recognises the importance of the first 5 years of a child's life on the road to intellectual and cultural development. lt is rather odd that we are drifting into this field in such a perfunctory way. Although I am critical of this Government on this issue because it has had the facts of life before it for many years and the resources of the Commonwealth at its disposal for many years, it is true also that educationists in Australia have not accepted the responsibility or taken an appropriate attitude towards pre-school education. 1 have the 1971 return of the Bureau of Census and Statistics and it is interesting to search through it for what it contains about pre-schools. Is a pre-school a school? I would say it is but I cannot find pre-schools included in the appropriate statistic. They have not been acknowledged. I hope in future that the Department will include pre-schools in its statistics and so make them a little brighter. It is over 200 years since Johann Oberlin in Germany launched into pre-school education and nursery centres for the children of his village and surrounding districts. Robert Owen, one of the socialists of the last century, did the same thing in Scotland and Montesori in Italy established a new approach to education at this level. It has been going on for 2 centuries. Even in this benighted country 30-odd years ago the Lady Gowrie centres were established around Australia as an example to the States. There is nothing more fruitless than to try to set examples for State governments in the expansion of services or the further expenditure of money. It is increasingly obvious that pre-school education is a fundamental part of the cultural and intel lectual capacity of the nation and we have to accept responsibility for it. The Commonwealth through the legislation before us does not do that in any way. 
What are some of the problems associated with pre-school education? The fact that it is hardly acknowledged in statistics is an elementary and fundamental demonstration of our approach to it. Pre-school education has no official status whatever apparently. College staff, according to the evidence given before the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts when it inquired into pre-school education, have totally inadequate salaries ranging from $3,600 to $7,200. Compare those salaries with the salaries received by lecturers at teachers colleges and universities and with the salaries of those engaged in almost every other form of social endeavour. Members should look closely at the salaries set out at page 402 of the Hansard report containing evidence given before the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. There is no need for me to demonstrate that teachers entering the system of pre-school education sacrifice thousands of dollars a year from the day they start. There is a strong need for a total approach to pre-school education. The Labor Party believes that a statutory authority would need to be established, in all probability - a pre-school commission, call it what you will, set up however you might - in what is an important an area as many others. In many parts of Australia it is much more important than other fields of activity. Early learning is a fundamental part of a person's life. 
What are the problems? In this instance we are taking a handful of institutions - 6 or 7 of them - which are all privately run except for the Launceston Teachers College because Tasmania has accepted the view that pre-school education is part of the education system and simply expanding these existing institutions. They have no relationship to the rest of the education system. What are the problems in establishing a pre-school system throughout Australia? At present there are nearly 2 million children in the primary schools in Australia. We could divide that number by 4 or 5 to determine the number of children who should be in pre-schools; it is perhaps 400,000. In primary schools in Australia there are about 70,000 primary school teachers. This is another demonstration of the inadequacy of the return of the Bureau of Census and Statistics in relation to schools. Perhaps the figure is in it somewhere but I could not extract the number of teachers working in primary schools. However, if we divide the number of teachers by 4 we get 15,000 or 16,000. There are about 18,000 teachers in training for Australian primary schools and if we divide that by 4 we get 4,500. At present we have some 1,000 teachers in teacher training colleges. We have a handful of children in the pre-school system throughout Australia. The Minister has said that the Labor Party's policy of universal preschool education is a dream, that it is something at the end of the rainbow and asks: How on earth could we afford it? Of course, last week's Budget demonstrated that money is no object if we have to buy votes because of our reaction to a gallup poll or if we want to see that the graziers are fixed up all right. 
I suppose the Government is printing it. The whole, situation opens up a new form of educational challenge in Australia. 
I represent the industrial area of Brunswick - Coburg in Victoria. At present, it is a densely populated area with about 110,000 or 115,000 people of great political perception; but there are only about 10 or 12 pre-schools in the whole area! There are 4 or 5 pre-schools in Brunswick and 6 in Coburg. One of the interesting points is that the citizens of this area are not really making the full use of these, pre-schools. So I believe that there is a need for an educational programme for parents. Those of us who have lived in other areas such as in the outer suburbs or in country towns know that there is no difficulty in filling the kindergartens in those areas when they are opened. In the outer suburbs of Melbourne, pre-schools have waiting lists of literally hundreds of names of people desiring to get their children in to pre-schools, while in the areas in which the children perhaps most need pre-school education the parents are not aware of the necessity to make the greatest possible use of pre-schools. 
Therefore, while the House accepts this piece of legislation, it recognises it as a remarkable demonstration of the Government's dilatory approach to this matter. This is no way in which to approach the situation. One has only to read the evidence given before the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts to see that this is not even a stopgap measure. It is simply a fill ' in or a sop to the whole system. I recommend that honourable members obtain the official Hansard report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts for Monday, 25th October and read the statistics, comments and pleas from the people who are associated with the kindergarten and pre-school system.. 
I regret that we are hot able to debate' this matter at much greater length. I hope that the idea of pre-school education will become as important in this1 House as has university education. I believe that the campaign that has been conducted both inside and outside this House over the last 16 or 17 years to make the Commonwealth conscious of its direct responsibilities will bear fruit only when this Government is replaced by a government more conscious of its responsibilities. I can think of no reason whatsoever why this Parliament should not direct all its energies and resources towards equalising Australian educational opportunity and 'giving education a new sense of direction. Part of that new sense of direction means the development of pre-school education. It is interesting that it is in this area that the first ideas of the free flow of the child's thought and activity inside the school takes place, but that increasingly, as he passes through the education system, he becomes more restricted and inhibited. In fact; from the way that the Government controls this House, one would think that its. members were produced by the most restrictive education system possible. I will conclude on that note and I hope that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will use your good offices with honourable members opposite  so  that at some stage we can have a more appropriate debate on this subject. 
1 address a question to the Minister for the Interior. It has reference to some governmental violence carried out in front of Parliament House on 20th July of this year. In accordance with the provisions of the Trespass on Commonwealth Land Ordinance 1972, which was introduced under the auspices of the Minister for the Interior, police removed the Aboriginal Embassy from opposite Parliament House, presumably al the Minister's instruction. That action was taken under section 3, sub-section 8 (2.) of the Ordinance, which relates to the removal of a camp. I ask: Why has no action been taken to enforce sub-section 8 (3.) of section 3 of the same Ordinance, which states that a person shall not park or leave a vehicle on  unleased  land, in relation to the 100 or so vehicles parked on  unleased  land on Camp Hill that are the property no doubt of senior members of the Prime Minister's Department? Why is there one law for the Aborigines in front of Parliament House and another law for the people in the Prime Minister's Department at the rear of it? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am interested in what one might call the Chippian' definition of co-operation. As I understand co-operation in this place, it means that those who have the numbers have the say and make their decisions absolutely. I do not recall any such operative word being behind any actions from the people opposite in the 16 or 17 years that I have been here. There is an assumption that those who sit on the front benches of either side of the House have some absolute right and that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has some even more absolute absolute right. I am tired of this place being used as a Prime Ministerial whimsy operation. At present, we are discussing the meeting hours of this Parliament. I do not mind how often the Parliament meets; I do object to meeting late at night. I do not care how many days the Parliament meets but I believe that when we have taken a long time to consider the meeting hours of this Parliament, through the Standing Orders Committee and its report to this Parliament and the deliberations thereon, it should not be necessary to alter the hours just to fit in with the whims of the moment. That is no way to run an institution which is not responsible just for what goes on here. The moment we make a decision to alter, in mid-stream, the Parliament's sitting hours, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, for instance, has to rearrange its total programming for those parts of Australia which receive the parliamentary broadcasts. All sorts of other people will have to rearrange their programmes. 
I agree that at this stage it is undesirable to meet on Mondays or Fridays. Each one of us has programmes for those days. What is the present situation? My colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who has some estimable characteristics but who has not demonstrated any in his capacity of Leader of the House, has said that we need more debating time. My arithmetic says that it is about 1040 days or thereabouts since the last election. In that time, according to the notice paper, we have met for the remarkable number - we must add one day for the day that we came here to open the bowling back in 1969- of 186 days. What has happened to the other 900 days? I do not know when we are going to learn. This is about the 140th session of this Parliament. I learnt once that, according to some experiments, people were able to teach cats something after 30 repetitions, dogs some thing after 40 times and worms something after 800 times. It looks as though the Government has about another 670 repetitions to go. It is always like this, but it is inexcusable when we take a look at the sitting times of the Parliament that in all that time we have met for such a small period. 
Therefore, 1 object on the grounds that the procedures that have been adopted after long deliberations and quite furious combats in this place will now be changed from those of the last session because the Government needs to fit in its programme. We do not know what the Government's programme is. At some stage this Parliament will be dissolved in accordance with the appropriate section of our Constitution - I think it is section 28. The GovernorGeneral will decide to dissolve the Parliament - upon the decision of the Prime Minister. I believe that this is a rather eccentric way to run a national Parliament. We should have a fixed time for elections. The Parliament should be dissolved before that time only in certain circumstances. I believe that it is quite wrong for the Parliament to be used in this political way. Therefore I believe we on this side should not have accepted this proposition. I am one member of the Opposition who did not accept it. I do not believe that I was properly consulted and, from all our experience, I do not think I will be extraordinarily happy and comforted if, in the future, co-operation means that we on this side of the House are going to be heard on those matters of great moment. 
In the last few weeks the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has presented a lengthy paper on defence and some discussion followed that presentation. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  produced 2 very lengthy documents. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  was able to speak from this side of the House rv&gt; each of them with some brevity, in one instance because of the Standing Orders. However, the rest of us who are involved in these matters will have no possibility of discussing them effectively, as indeed will be the case in respect of innumerable other matters that are on the notice paper. I believe that we are just demonstrating here this afternoon the continual incapacity of this Government to handle the affairs of the Parliament as the forum for discussion of national affairs. The Government has a complete disregard for the convenience of the Citizens and even for the members of the Parliament. 
It is suggested that the Parliament should resume at a time when  Mr Speaker  takes the chair.  Mr Speaker  is a man of estimable and good judgment in almost all matters except politics, and I can accept the view that the Minister for Customs and Excise has put forward. But it is a rather erratic way of running a place which makes national decisions.  Mr Speaker  may well decide that, on that particular day, he ought not to take the chair at all, and while I would honour his judgment in that matter 1 would reject any claim that he had that power. This is the Parliament that, in successive years, has taken time off for the Melbourne Cup. I believe that we have our priorities totally wrong. 1 believe that, as a forum for the discussion of national affairs, as a Parliament considering national matters in public manner, as we do here - and this Parliament is almost unique us a national instrument inasmuch as its proceedings are continuously broadcast - we are operating not as the Parliament of Australia should but as a third rate progress association in the most benighted Country Party area might. 
It must be disappointing to the troglodytes in the Country Party corner that the Budget is an absolute fizzer. As far as one can tell from conversations around the country, the ordinary citizen just says: 'Well, why did they not do it years ago?' The facts are that pensions are still inadequate and that unemployment is still creating great hardship. My colleague, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  who seems to belong to a long past age, says: 'The something incorporated we submit it to a Minister, and if honourable members opposite want material incorporated they should submit it to the Opposition. 

<graphic href="079131197208291_99_4.jpg"></graphic>

workers won't work'. He says that a farmer advertised for somebody to work on his farm, but nobody would turn up. The worker was to get a house, but the advertisement did not tell prospective applicants that they would pobably be expected to work 128 hours a week in the O'Keefe employer tradition. 
The honourable member for' Paterson has suddenly made a sort of death bed repetance after this Government has been in office for 23 years and said that we 

<graphic href="079131197208291_99_4.jpg"></graphic>

ought to do something about overseas investment. The honourable member is obviously against a decent wage level in the community. This is the continuing grief of members of the Country Party. They are not unhappy about a high level of unemployment. As far as we are concerned, and I think as far as any humanitarian person is concerned, if any person is out of work the level of unemployment is too high. On the question of a bank for the rural industries, I cannot see why the Government does not use its power and make the Commonwealth Bank do its work. 
For days now we have heard a Labor exposure of the deficiences of the Budget and the deficiences of the Government thinking behind it. lt has been answered almost invariably by a kind of pop politics from the other side, as in the disappointing speech made this afternoon by the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  and the equally disappointing one from the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley),  who 1 do not think even knew we were discussing the Budget. Of course, the speech of the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  was remarkable for the nonsense he talked. He is the man who represents Eureka, and from his activities politically it is no wonder that at Bakery Hill, one of the symbolic spots of Eureka, the plaque on the wall of the building there is decayed and falling off - at least it was when I last passed that way. 
Let me outline the issues as I see them. First of all, there is just sheer bad government. Nothing the Budget can do can repair that. The Government has failed to examine the needs of society in any depth. I believe that what is more elemental is that it has failed to grasp the simple fact that in modern times in a country such as this a government or a nation can control to a great extent its own destiny. The Government seems to think that we are in the grip of some sot of objective force which we cannot control, and so it gos on tinkering from day to day and year to year with currency and such items without getting down to the facts of life. We have not looked at the world of 1972 to see what we can do about it. One of the real concerns in the community which is of even greater importance than the issues that my friend the honourable member for Paterson was talking about is simply bad government as such - a failure by the Government to administer the country in any kind of effective fashion. 
I will run through three or four instances. First of all, there was the opportunity to purchase Everard Park station in northern South Australia. For nearly 2 years it was available for the Government to buy. Everybody who is associated with it agreed that it ought to have been obtained. The Minister concerned had only to lean across the table and say: 'Buy that', and it could have been bought. The opportunity passed by. It was not until there was an outcry that the Government started to take some action - kind of Government by public clamour. Then there was the case of the Aboriginal 'embassy' in front of Parliament House. If any sort of reasonable negotiations had been undertaken there would have been no need for the piece of Government thuggery that took place outside Parliament House. 
We should have given orders perhaps 12 months ago for the project N aircraft which we developed in Australia and had it properly launched around the world before this time. I instance also the case of the Victa aircraft which we were developing here in Australia. We are now buying it back from New Zealand. I suppose nothing demonstrated the greatest possible limits of Government incompetence than the handling of the position in Canberra during the recent petrol dispute. The buses in Canberra ran out of petrol. Many of them were off the road. At the same time, I drove from Melbourne and bought petrol all the way to Yass. I passed a tanker along the road which contained 8,000 gallons of niel. Yet the simple minded Government in Canberra could not keep the buses moving. I believe that that is one of the 'issues. 
However, I want to deal with what might be called some of the 'odd thinking' that goes on behind all this - the mythology of the Budget, if you like. I do not believe that the Budget is likely these days to produce the kind of magic which will change the political, social and economic life of the nation. It is produced in the House once a year. We can almost see the bated-breath, Christmas eve atmosphere: Be quiet; do not tell anybody what is in it; go to bed; do not wake up until 6 o'clock in the morning and then look in your stocking for what the Treasurer has given to you. The total impact of it is nonsense. It does not happen that way. Firstly, I ask: Why all the secrecy? What would it matter if almost every part of this Budget were known beforehand? There are a few items such as sales tax or excise which must be kept quiet so that they are not introduced in such a way that people can profiteer. But what would happen if we had known that the Government was to do something about pensions and estate duties? It is simply that we are living in the past. This does not belong to a modern administration. I believe that the Estimates which will come up for debate in a few weeks ought to have been dealt with before the Budget was presented. There is just no reason why estimates for each Department could not have been considered by some committee of the House. People could have examined them and those who are interested could have said: 'We would have liked to have seen something better done in relation to hospitals, Aborigines or in this defence area or in that education area'. 
There is no reason why, in many of these areas the Parliament could not participate instead of this mystic group of men in the Cabinet room fooling around with the matter week after week. I do not believe that this Budget demonstrates any real effort to control the economy. No imagination is shown. Perhaps it is old hat to refer back to the Labor government of 23 years ago. On the other hand, it is the done thing now to quote, for instance, that the education vote is now umpteen million dollars higher than it was in 1786 or some such magical period when nothing was happening. But what happened in 1947, 1948 and 1949? I recall that the Snowy Mountains scheme which was launched in 1948-49 was a project involving the expenditure of about S900m. That represented about one-fifth or one-sixth of the gross national product at the time, the equivalent these days to launching a project costing about $8,000m. Can honourable members imagine that happening? 
I give another instance of the way in which a government can control a situa tion: Countless thousands of Australian servicemen returned to civilian life in 1945-46. They were all paid their deferred pay on the dot. I think that it was in 1945-46 that they were paid $144m or about 5 per cent of the gross national product at the time. It is the equivalent to an extra pay-out in this year of almost S2,000m. Yet prices were kept under control. Everybody came back to full employment. It is the total lack of imagination that bothers me about this. One of the constant things has been the story about inflation. One would think that the Government had never read history. Let us turn back to the first Budget Speech of this Government. The Treasurer at the time said: 
. it can be said that the Budget makes  a  substantia] contribution to anti-inflation measures. 
That was the Budget Speech of 1950. But what did the right honourable gentleman have to say 12 months later, after his first practice? He said: 
The recent steep rises in . prices and costs bears witness to the acuteness  of  the problem of inflation. . . . This rise in prices and costs has, of course, grave social and economic consequences for many sections of the community. 
So it has gone on year after year. The late  Mr Harold  Holt had this to say in the first Budget that I heard when I came to this place:  .. . costs and prices have, beep tending to rise for the past couple of years and . . . latterly the rate of increase has become more rapid. The movement has reached a stage At which it is beginning to affect seriously the relative economic position- of the nation and everything else. Then we come to the Budget Speech of 1960-61 - 12 years ago - and we find that the Government was talking about the same thing. The Treasurer at the time said:  
Prices and costs rose sharply - oyer last year and, so far, the rate of increase does not seem to be slackening. 
He said that these were matters for concern. Let us turn to the last Budget. After 23 years of practice the story goes on and on, but the battle against inflation stemming from cost pressures will have to continue unabated. 
Is it not time that we stopped in our tracks and asked what it is all about? I suppose, first of all, it is something to do with an expansion of society and the complexity of its nature. But surely to goodness, this constant theme of inflation means that there is something deeper happening to society and economics than that which we face with a tinkering of taxes and changes here and there. I do not know what the answer is. Perhaps it is true enough that so far nobody has found the answer. I believe that honourable members opposite are not even looking for it. For instance, the honourable member for Paterson concluded his speech by referring to the tremendous destructive effects of the trade unions and the frightful workers who wanted decent wages and so on and who used to strike. That has been a constant theme, too.  Sir Arthur  Fadden, in his first Budget Speech, said: 
With these ends in view, the Government brought down legislation to deal with those enemies of Australia who, working through the trade union movement, were organising industrial strife and deliberately fostering practices which hold back production. 
Only this week the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made similar statements to the effect that attempts to curtail cost inflation in 1972 had been jeopardised by a strategically planned attack on industry by organised labour. 
That is right. I find it continually dispiriting. Now honourable members opposite are weeping about the 35-hour week. I represent an industrial area of Australia. I do not go campaigning for the 35-hour week. I do not need to. It is as inevitable as the sunrise. There has been a tremendous rise in productivity in every factory in the country. One only has to go to a factory and ask the management: 'How many shirts could you make next week if you were fully employed?' How many cars could General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd and the Ford Motor Company of Australia and the rest of them turn out7 The thing that is completely overlooked by my colleagues opposite is the extraordinary rise in the productivity of every person in the work force. As I have said, we do not need to campaign for the 35-hour week; it will just happen. 
The reality seems to me to be part of what one might call the profit psychology. There is something in the community that makes people jack up the prices no matter what. For instance, let us take one little issue. In Melbourne cement costs $1.50 a bag. In Canberra cement costs $2.10 a bag. Why is that? Why does this Government not do something about it? Here it has a laboratory to practise economic theories. We could do several things here. We could introduce a form of price control, I suppose. We could introduce complementary competitive Government action in all these areas. Now there is another villain in the field - metrication. For instance, a month ago  2i  lb of Bega cheese cost $1.38. It is now marked '1 kg' - which is, of course, a little less than  2i  lb - and the price has gone up to $1.50. 
The other area is that of mark-ups in retailing. I visited a shirt factory in my area which turns out a very high quality shirt for about $2.35 to the retailer. 
This is a Henderson shirt. It is very effective. There is also J. Boag (Clothing) Pty Ltd and there are a few other manufacturers. R. J. Henderson Pty Ltd makes this quality shirt and it is sold by the retailer at about $4.50 to $5. The mark-up has now become habitual in many parts of retailing at 80 per cent to 100 per cent. About 20 years ago a shirt was made for say 15s and was sold for, say, 18s lid. We must launch an attack on this area of profit psychology. It is the same over the whole field of economics and a great deal of this in in the hands of the Government to control. It ought to make an effort to establish control over this area of profit; it ought to make an effort, particularly in Canberra, to control it. There is a constant weeping and grieving and wringing of hands about the inexorable inflationary spiral - which has in some ways, I suppose, been going on since the end of the Middle Ages - which ought to break the citizen's heart. 
In these areas of present problems such as unemployment, would it be terribly difficult to put 100,000 Australians to work on some of the social needs of the community? How many people would be involved if the Government decided to rebuild all the obsolescent schools in Australia, of which there are perhaps thousands? Or if the Government decided to modernise the Australian railway system and so put everybody to work in that area by standardising the track and rebuilding the rolling stock and so on, with the flowon right back into the steel mills and so on? These things are all part of a pattern. Somehow we are caught up with the mythology of it all, the myth that there is so much money, that there is a pool of it somewhere and that that is all we can use. This piece of mythology ought by now to have died a natural death. I have been through the figures shown in this document and I have found by looking up the amount of money in circulation, the gross national product, the amount of money in the banks, the overseas reserves and so on, that there is no necessary relationship between any of these things. There is no such thing as a pool of money. It is not a material factor at all. It is obvious that the decisions about these matters of employment and whether we can do this or that have nothing to do with what one might call a pile of gold in a corner somewhere. These are decisions by Treasury officials, by the Treasurer, by the Reserve Bank and by the banking system and so on. It is the government's job to control these developments and to direct them towards the social welfare of the people of Australia. This country has extraordinary strength; I suppose it demonstrated this strength by maintaining full employment and growth despite the general incompetence of the governmental manager. It is one of the world's largest manufacturing countries; its primary production has become embarrassing; it has mineral wealth almost beyond the belief of the rest of the world; it is one of the world's largest trading nations, and we have productivity in almost every area which is equal in efficiency and certainly in capacity to that of almost every 0:her nation except the 7 or 8 very large ones. Out of all this it should be possible to produce the kind of society and the way of living for the people which will result in a satisfactory life for everyone. I do not see any evidence that the Budget has given any thought to this at all. If one takes all these areas of self reliance, capacity to organise ourselves because of these resources so that we can control our own destiny, then I do not believe there is any substantial future even in, say, international trade in this area. We have to work towards a largely self-reliant capacity, because that is what is happening throughout the rest of the world. That is what is happening with primary production around the world, with the green revolution whereas 4 bushels are being garnered in Mexico and Pakistan. 25 years ago there was only one. We are not going to be able to sell our shoes, ships and sealing wax, because countries are developing self-reliance. As I examine the capacity of this na'.ion, the opportunities at its door and the failure to do anything about them with 100,000 people unemployed, the costs of things rising, and ineffective efforts made to control the situation, and as I see the resources at our disposal and the first class administrative system that is available, 1 can only come to the conclusion that it is incompetence with a touch of genius that can get the country into such serious economic difficulties. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I would like to speak for a moment to this motion. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  takes every opportunity to gag debate in this House and provides no opportunity for the House to discuss many matters of national moment. However, we on this side of the House, because of his high office but not because of his behaviour or courtesy to any of us, are prepared to grant him this favour. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  always talks like a revolutionary when there is no possibility of testing a question by a vote in the House. Why does he not stand up and support any progressive attitudes expressed from this side of the House when there is a chance of a vote, such as on motions for the. suspension of Standing Orders and things like that? He is not the worst on the Government side, but that is not flattery at all. The political parties sitting opposite have spent the last 23 years subverting the institution of Parliament. Nothing demonstrates that better than the absurdity, as my friend the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  remarked a moment ago, of this charade or Irish two-step or whatever it is about the forthcoming election. What is wrong with the country that it should allow the whimsy of one man to keep people waiting around? Some day - perhaps October, perhaps November, and my information is that it could be as late as Saturday, 20th January 1973 - we will have the. elections for the House of Representatives. 
In 1963 the right honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies used his power over his satellites opposite to dissolve the Parliament when he saw the political time to be right. In 1955 he did the same thing. What is wrong with us that we should tolerate this sort of thing? It is time we took some, steps to do something specific about section 28 of the Constitution so that the dissolution of the Parliament should take place on a specific date from the last election unless it is earlier dissolved by a fall of the Government - in other words, by a resolution of the Parliament within the House. I cannot understand why in a growing and maturing democracy, in a commonsense community we put up with this. Nobody would tolerate a situation in a third class football club where the  president  looks around and says: 'Have we got the numbers tonight? We will have an election.'  If  trade union lead?-- did this, the Government would put them in gaol, but when a member of the Liberal Party does it. other members try to perpetuate him as Prime Minister. That is a different set of standards. I believe that it is time that we did something about that. 
I wish to discuss a number of other issues. Of course, one has only 10 minutes during these Estimates in which to discuss the question of parliamentary government in Australia. A magnificent time! Some honourable member asked why we have late nights. In the 1060 days since, the last election we have met for 190 days. We have let 870 days pass somewhere else. The honourable member for Griffith was probably trying to get people in his electorate used to the idea that he works busily. I know that he does. The people in his electorate probably appreciate him much more than they should. But the facts are that this Parliament neglects its duty simply by its failure to meet. I am not suggesting that all honourable members should always be in this place. The committee system and all sorts of other things come into the question. However, we are the most subservient viofims of ministerial proprietorship in the Western world. The Ministers own the place. They do not need to tell us about anything. The Public Service is theirs absolutely. Some Ministers, of course, make public servants and members of their departments readily available to Opposition committees, but in the last few years members on this side have had advice refused to them because they might find out something. After all, information is the private property of the Minister for the time being, but there has been nothing more ephemeral than a McMahon ministerial appointment over the last 2 years. I do not know why we have this tingod-sim about Ministers. Why should Ministers be paid more than other members? They are working at a different level, but they have ali sorts of resources at their disposal. 
I think that all members should be paid equally because each one of us has to apply his talents, what he has of them, to the full extent of his power. Therefore, it is time to examine the whole question of ministerial and Cabinet government. The problem, as I see it, is to pro vide a system of responsibility to the citizenry. I believe that the citizens of the electorate of Wills, who have the great political perception to return me to this place, have as much right to have their logical aspirations carried into executive actions as those benighted citizens of the electorate of Lowe who return the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Why is it that the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  is able to exercise more executive authority on the part of the people of Evans than I am able to exercise on the part of the people of Wills. Somehow it should be possible to devise a system whereby there is a closer relationship between the Parliament and the Executive function. I know that this is a totally different view from the partisan view we have of politics in Australia, but it is time that we were each given a much more effective role to play in the government of this country. 
This Parliament is the committee of wasted resources. In this Parliament on both sides of the House there is talent unlimited. Many members have infinite capacity. Some, of course, are capable of anything. Therefore we have to employ out talents more effectively. But there are a number of other things 1 want to say in the few minutes available to me. First of all, we have seen a remarkable demonstration of the failure of ministerial responsibility and ministerial government and the misuse of regulatory power. On 20th July, I think it was, under the powers conferred upon him by one of the Acts of this Parliament the Minister for the Inter.ior  (Mr Hunt)  had the forces of the constabulary descend upon the people opposite in the Aboriginal 'Embassy' and remove them from Parkes Place. The police were acting on a regulation which this afternoon, as I understand it, was declared invalid in the courts. Now, of course, the flag of the Aboriginal 'Embassy' has been raised opposite Parliament House. This is not a matter merely of the power of the people of Australia to stand up and answer back no matter what authority is against them, but it is a depressing symbol of the failure of this Government, and this Parliament to exercise its authority with responsibility. 
I have not noticed it doing anything correctly in the past few years. I support those Opposition members who have raised the question of committee work. I have had on the notice paper since 21st August 1970 a proposal for a model standing order setting out the number of committees which this House should have. This matter has been on the notice paper for 2 years or more. There is nothing more dispiriting than to look at the notice paper of this Parliament at the moment, lt is loaded with things that were put on the notice paper and never discussed. As I remarked on one other occasion, if this Parliament had put on the notice paper back in 1787 the proposal: 'Let us form a fleet of 13 ships to found Australia' it would still be on the notice paper. This is the Parliament of inaction. It is totally subservient to the Ministry. We have allowed the Standing Orders and everything else to be subverted. We are only protected against the final subversion in the reduction of the quorum by the ingenious activities of some of us on this side of the chamber. 
Before 1 sit down I want to say one other thing which relates to the question of the new Parliament House. A committee was appointed to examine this matter 5 or 6 years ago. It did so thoroughly. Its report is very good. It is full and it describes all the needs of the Parliament itself as we foresaw them. The final report was tabled 2 years ago in this Parliament. Nothing has been done about it. The report points out how urgent is the need for a new Parliament House. It sets out a timetable providing for a period of 10 years in which to build it. It sets out the needs of the building. In the last few weeks we have witnessed the tragedy of parts of the Parliamentary Library being removed from this building because of crowded conditions. It is my belief - I held it then and I hold it still - that a new Parliament House should be provided in the Capital Hill area. That is the logical place for it. I put this forward simply for the benefit of new members of the Parliament. Capital Hill is accessible and occupies a central position. Its most important virtue is that it has continuing space. The present building is totally inadequate in space, size and facilities. We have about 250,000 square feet here. The recommended new Parliament House would start with about 1 million square feet and eventually occupy 2 million square feet and cover perhaps 16 acres. The Congress in Washington has 130 acres at its disposal and even now that is becoming crowded. Congress has about 6 million square feet of space, lt is time we started to build for the future, lt is urgent for the proper working of this Parliament that we should start to build now. In the immediate future, of course, we must do something about the immediate accommodation. Perhaps we should Ki iki a new set of rooms along the back of this House where we could get another jO,00( square feet without a great deal of expense. 
I support my colleagues who have raised the question of more offices and support for members. This matter has been raised previously. Why on earth we permit the operations of our parliamentary offices to be the province of the Department of the Interior I cannot understand. It is the last and final humiliation of our parliamentary system that the simplest things - the provision of a clock, for instance* - must be the decision of one of the minions in the Department of the Interior. Why should 1 ask the Minister for the Interior - a 5- minute man in this place - whether I can have a car to enable me to catch a plane? I. believe it is time we took control of this for ourselves. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I would like to continue the remarks which 1 began earlier this afternoon as I understand that we have a few more minutes left of the allotted period. First of all, I want to refer to the question of the new parliament house. I believe that all honourable members ought to apply themselves conscientiously to the document which was circulated 2 years ago with reference to a new parliament house. The document was prepared after long discussions with experts inside Australia and with parliamentarians, and after examination of parliaments throughout the world. As my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  pointed out earlier, we have been tinkering with the extra facilities for the last few years. Goodness knows how much money we have spent - perhaps something like $lm in the current extensions - all to no avail. As far as the general purpose member is concerned, I am not too sure that it is producing anything much. For the first time in 16 or 17 years I have actually moved into a room of my own. lt is bumble. Little bits of carpet have been gathered from here and there. One would not want to waste too much of the country's wealth and resources on floor coverings for a member of Parliament. 
The telephone system that has just been installed is a magnificent tribute to human technology, lt seems to lack some of the touch of the previous one. The way in which one can be connected to telephones throughout the building is a little less useful to some extent than the previous sys tem. The time has come for all of us to turn our minds conscientiously to the question of a new parliament house. We cannot continue to operate as a Parliament in these circumstances. There are people who work in this place under conditions which are a disgrace to a country such as this. This institution is the fountainhead of all truth and justice in the whole nation. We should not tolerate it. It would be worth while for honourable members opposite to take a stroll around the dungeons of the place and have a look for a while at the conditions under which many of the people in the Parliamentary Library have to work. 
Each member should have read this document very carefully. Is the space allotted to each member under the projected plan adequate? Is the 520 square feet or thereabouts that was suggested for each private member adequate? Is it possible that we will need more than 2 rooms each plus the extra facilities of a washroom and a rest area? If honourable members do not sit down and examine these questions, nobody else will. Then there are the general facilities. Should we not be considering the structure of the new Parliament House itself? Is the present system whereby the Senate and the House of Representatives are divided from one another by Kings Hall the most appropriate way of locating the chambers? In modern buildings it is easier to move vertically than it is to move horizontally. Would it be better to have a tall building with the 2 Houses one above the other and the facilities in between? 
It is time that the whole Parliament applied itself to some of these questions. The same applies, of course, to the site of the new Parliament House. As honourable members may recall, there was a decision that it would be placed on the lakeside. After a long and exciting battle in this place the proponents of that site were driven off the lake, as the 'Canberra Times' put it, into the foothills. The Minister for the Interior at the time tossed into the ring the idea that perhaps we could use Camp Hill. In the subsequent debate the House of Representatives decided by a small majority in favour of Camp Hill and the Senate decided by a large majority on Capital Hill. The Government at th: 1 time 
The most important feature of the site of the new Parliament House will have to be the amount of space around it. Allthe evidence that was taken about public buildings around the world was to the effect that for heavens sake we should allow as much space as we can lay our hands on. Inside State Circle there is an area of 135 acres. I think even inside that piece of vandalism, the ring road, there is an area of 85 acres still, and I suppose it is not beyond the wit of man to overcome that disability. I believe there are a lot of facts in favour of the Capital Hill site. First of all there is the accessibility. All the major roads and streets in Canberra lead to it. There is the question of space, as I have mentioned. I mentioned earlier too that the people in Washington had found that after all these years that even 130 acres was not adequate for the functions they have to carry out on Capital Hill. 
The Capital Hill site is a central point in Canberra. It is not a question of just being prestigious or anything else. It is not a question of attempting to elevate oneself above the citizenry by putting oneself on a bill. Access to Capital Hill would be from all points and all areas. Buildings can be of any type no matter where they are built. The actual height or prominence of the building has nothing to do with it. 1 believe that the central nature of the place is rather more important. It is symbolic of the very functions of this city. If the Parliament itself was shifted from here Canberra would become just another country town - a pleasant one. 
The other question to which I dearly want to turn attention is that of sharing 
How should these committees work? I believe we ought not to exclude Ministers from membership of the committees. I do not believe that we ought to tolerate any further the idea that once a member enters the Ministry he should drop out of all other things and should no longer be a member of the Library Committee or should not attend meetings of the Foreign Affairs Committee any more. I do not know what the situation is in the Senate, but I would be surprised if the ministerial members of the Senate attended Senate committee meetings. I believe this is wrong. A Minister might have an executive function to perform in relation to customs and excise, the Army or anything else, but he is still a member of the Parliament. The rest of the membership should not be excluded from taking advantage of the talents he has, and he should not be excluded from the communion of spirit that comes from gathering around the table and discussing matters. If there is any single error in our formula here it is the way in which Ministers no longer take part in the Parliament in all sorts of way. They are busy at meal times. They are out at functions and things like that. They do not sit so much any more with their colleagues around the table. This I think is where we have to improve our performance. 
Let us presume we have a standing committee on education, science and the arts, which is one of the committees I project, and let us presume it is examining the relevance of adolescent education in a modern school. Is that not a committee whose meetings ought to be attended not only by the Minister for Education and Science but any other Minister? The whole relationship has to be changed. The committee itself ought to have some executive function. It is my belief that when a select committee or a standing committee brings down a recommendation which implies some form of legislation it ought to produce the legislation as part of its function and table it in the Parliament for consideration and discussion. I am putting these thoughts into the ring tonight, knowing full well that all the members of Parliament on both sides, as much as I deplore the subservience of honourable members opposite to the Ministry, are deeply concerned with the matters, as is the country itself. In January the Institute of Political Science held a conference here in Canberra. Over  1,000  people attended over the weekend to examine the functions of government and in particular the Parliament, lt is a question of deep national concern, and we as the actual inheritors of the whole system ought to be applying ourselves to it with much greater concentration and with much closer scrutiny of its functions and the way in which we perform them. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Proposed expenditure, $31,039,000. 
Department of the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure, $110,396,000. 
Advance to the Treasurer 
Proposed expenditure, $30,000,000. 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  who makes great play on being so fair and kind and gentle towards members of the House has demonstrated exactly what he is. If there were one person who was entitled to speak on this matter, it was myself. In the previous debate I was refused the opportunity to do so. Tonight I am able to speak when we are off the air. I will not forget. Il is all right for the. honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  to laugh. He is always silent when there is any issue which is worth debating but he barks like some terrior at the behest of honourable members opposite. I will not forget what the Leader of the House did tonight. Law! What law? These men speak of law and order. They have done so at great length, for so long and with great acclaim for all the principles of law and order. What law? On 20th July at, I think, 10.45 a.m. about 50 members of the constabulary descended on half a dozen or so Aboriginal people and their twenty or thirty supporters at the behest of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  and assaulted them illegally. Every honourable member opposite should answer for that. It was a clear cut case of assault. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sincalir),  or whatever he is for the time being, can wipe his brow, wring his hands and talk his head off but the fact is that everything he has said was exposed tonight as plain, inexcusable conscienceless hypocrisy. This is the case with the other Ministers too. 
Law! They were assaulted. I saw them assaulted vigorously and brutally by those with all the writ of the Government behind them. They were assaulted illegally and were dragged off to prison and charged, even though the charge was never proceeded with. What form of law and order is it that honourable members opposite should say tonight: 'We did not use that Ordinance'. They were arrested. For what were they arrested? I was there. They were standing peacefully around their tent with their arms locked together. These 50 men descended upon them with all the force and vigour of which strong powerful well uniformed men are capable. The Government cannot write that out of the record. It cannot discharge that via the printing press tomorrow morning. What it to be done opposite Parliament House? What disturbs me more than all this is the total insensitivity to what this is all about. The Aboriginal people opposite and what they represent have nothing to do with tents, flags or anything else. Something deep in the spirit of the Aboriginal people is involved here. Those people who were ingenious enough to think of this operation in the first instance did so on the clear cut issue that they wanted some recognition by the people of Australia through their Government on land rights. This is a special case. It is of no use saying that we cannot have everybody camping over there in Parkes Place. They are not camping in Parkes Place. They have put up a symbol of what this matter is all about. I took delegations to the Minister. On the whole the Minister, as are most members of the Government, when plain and straight forward discussion takes place they arc straight forward people. But I could see as we sat there and discussed this matter that 2 totally different concepts were being discussed that day. On the one hand the Minister said: 'Well, you can have a lease'. What lease? On the other hand, one person in the delegation said: 'You cannot lease your own'. The fact is that we have to find some different concept. 
We have to offer to the Aboriginal people a different view in relation to leasehold, freehold or any other sort of tenure. Surely it is not beyond our wit, with all the resources at our disposal, to do that instead of descending on them tomorrow morning with another act of governmental thuggery. That is all I ask. The discussion by the 2 Ministers tonight is totally irrelevant. It has nothing to do with the issue. All I ask is that in this case instead of the Government talking law and order, throwing its weight about and acting as if il owned this place as its own private Parliament, the Government be sensitive to what this issue is all about. I ask the Government to negotiate with the young men opposite and the people whom they represent. For once see what can be done by establishing a rapport with people rather than exercising power over them. Somehow in this civilisation which we are supposed to be developing we have to find some different way of negotiating between government and the governed. There is a classic opportunity opposite. The Government does not need to beat up these people. They are not that sort of people. Is it not possible just to sit down and work this out? 1 know from all my experience that a few weeks ago some peace with honour could have been discovered. I do not know whether it can be done now but it is time for the Government to stop in its tracks, to forget about exercising power, and to start to exercise tact and discretion and just be sensitive to human dignity and the long felt needs of the Aboriginal people for a change. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In speaking to the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders, I ignore most of the remarks of the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  except that reference to the content of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The Leader of the Opposition said: 
It would net be done if it were not being done to people who were black or were young. 
It just happens that this matter has no racial content. It just happens to be the minorities who get booted around if the opportunity offers. One has only to look to see the position. Why ought we not suspend standing orders? The Standing Orders of this House have been developed over a generation. They are part of the protective device of Australian legislative democracy. Therefore, they should be suspended only for special reasons and reasons which come under the closest possible scrutiny. On this occasion, 1 view the matter with even more suspicion when I read in the terms of the motion: 'through all its stages without delay'. During the 15 or 16 years in which I have been in this place that always means that there will be no adequate debates that things will be forced through, that the majority will prevail and that there will be no adequate discussion. Of course, the very essence of the contract here this afternoon is the need for adequate discussion. 
The Leader of the House places a persuasive point before us. It is that the courts of the Territories cannot operate under traditional patterns of legislation and regulations unless we do this. But I am not certain that the machinery by which the Government is attempting to ameliorate this matter is the correct way in which it ought to do it. Perhaps I would be prepared to accept some resolution by some sort of constitutional process in which the ordinances were validated for a fixed time. But I have not seen what they will offer because every one of these ordinances - the 102 that are listed so far and all the others - ought to be brought under the closest possible scrutiny. Why should this be done? It should be done because we have seen this Government in action. Any person who has seen what has taken place in the last 24 hours cannot be but dismayed with the Government of this country. What we are being asked to do here is to confirm government by decree. In the middle of last night after the Parliament had adjourned the printing press worked - in a sort of fashion. One can obtain copies of the ordinances only by proxy, by putting them through a photostat machine oneself. Then along comes what purports to be legislation. 
One of the weaknesses of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act is that once an ordinance is printed and published it has the force of law. No parliament ought ever to have allowed that kind of provision to be in the Act in the first instance. We ought now to sit down and examine very carefully the whole regulationmaking process of this Parliament. This cannot be allowed to continue, because we have perpetuated all sorts of things. Goodness knows what has been done in the name of this Parliament as a result of this legislation and the misuse of regulations. One has only to take the very first ordinance on the top of the list in this morning's 'Gazette'. It is the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1932. Let us take one of its provisions: 
Any such member of the police force or any such overseer or person may arrest without warrant any person reasonably suspected of having acted in contravention of this section, may keep him in custody- 
I am not surprised at the failure of the Minister for Primary Industry to comprehend what it is all about. First of all, we are being asked to suspend Standing Orders to consider the notification of ordinances, regulations and other instruments being introduced and passed through ali stages without delay. We have no idea what we are being asked to pass without delay. The best I can make is a guestimate and take some of the things that were nominated in the instrument published last night, or was it this morning? I shall quote one subject to which we ought to turn the closest possible attention as a reason why we ought not to do anything at this stage without delay. 
I am prepared to admit, as I said earlier, that it is possibly desirable to protect all those people who through the ineptitude, incompetence, lack of perception of or just sheer bad luck encountered under the present system of Government, will be deprived today of the advantages of the law. That is if the law has something to do with lands, rights, people and so on. But if it is simply to confirm the positive malevolent actions of governments and police forces, as the Leader of the Opposition has said is the case with this Bill, I will have none of it. Of course that is what produced today's discussion. Last night's action was incredible. Are we being asked to pass and confirm without delay the continuance of that procedure so that we can use the printing press to legislate for Australia, so that the police can come in the middle of the night and remove people, using the Seat of Government (Administration) Act with ail the force of law with nobody knowing? We cannot tolerate that. As my colleague, the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  says, this is an act of monumental wickedness. 
Therefore I ask the Government to consider some different form of procedure. If the piece of legislation that is to be produced specifies some terminal point and provides that in a week, 10 days or a fortnight all these things will come up for proper consideration and due process of examination, there may be a case for it. But I have been here long enough to know that when we agree at 1255 or 1300 hours or whatever time it is to some point of procedure and the Government's writ starts to run there is no possibility of this side of the House reversing it, having it brought into reasonable scrutiny or protecting the people who have been victimised. The House, by its failure to exercise authority, by allowing legislation of the kind contained in the Act to be passed and by allowing the regulation-making power to descend upon the Ministry without proper scrutiny, permitted the operations that took place here 6 or 7 weeks ago. People were beaten up. People were assaulted by the police. They were assaulted illegally. 
The Government has made a great play of law and order, lt has made a great play of protecting the devices of democracy. In each action that it has taken it has tried to bypass democracy and use the Executive writ as a guarantee of anything. Therefore I ask the House to reject the motion for the suspension of standing orders. I give notice to the Government at this point of time that it will have to find a separate and different formula. I for one regard it as incredible that the operations of the last 24 hours have happened in what ought to be one of the cornerstones of democratic government. I look down the long history of it all - whether it be the times of Charles I or Eureka, whether it be the Nuremberg decree itself - the right of government by decree to issue an ultimatum in the dead of night and to enforce it in that clandestine way has been one of the hallmarks of absolutism and the total destruction of common sense, democratic government. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  must have a different sort of perspective from the people who are looking at this matter not as a technical operation but as a direction by this Parliament and through the agencies of this Parliament to citizens of this country.  His  arguments were plausible enough if one starts from the premise that if the Government carries out its operations in a technically correct way it is all right by him. This, of course, would be an unkind analogy perhaps, but that may well have been the argument in the 1930s about the gas ovens and everything else. It is all done by the due process of law. The argument from this side of the House is based as much upon the principles of delegated legislation and the way this Parliament carries out its operations as it is upon any technical inadequacies in the way in which this piece of printing has been performed or in which this Parliament carries out ils duties. The court, of course, in its judgment said:  lt is clear enough that section 12 authorises the making of an ordinance-  1 think this is the important point of this section:  without public scrutiny or parliamentary debate, and plainly  it  provides that such an ordinance . . . 
Reference is made to the ready availability of the ordinance. The point made on this side of the House has concerned the failure of this Parliament to perform its just duty as a parliamentary institution. There should not be laws which affect people in their fundamental rights or which can apply the processes of law. or prison sentences, or fines or some other process of punishment to them which are not carried out with public scrutiny or parliamentary debate. It is, of course, not the function of the court actually to decide whether the Parliament is performing its duties properly as a parliament. That responsibility is ours and that is what we are debating today. 1 believe that the court, in making its decision in this case, performed a great service to the country and to those people who were standing for this cause and other causes, by suddenly throwing the matter into the parliamentary arena for general debate. But people, of course, must be guided by the general usage of this Parliament itself, which has been notably dilatory, I believe, in its control of subordinate and delegated legislation and its delegation of its authority to Ministers. That is our own fault. I suppose that each one of us is guilty of it and each one of us, therefore, should turn his thoughts to ways of overcoming the difficulty. My colleagues on both sides of the House have said how difficult it is, with the great mass of governmental activity and all that flows from it. lt makes it almost impossible to study everything correctly. But in other parts of the world, in other legislatures, even in the Senate, members are able to take a much closer view of these things. 
I turn to the general question of what really happened and whether this ordinance was promulgated in a proper way back in July, for instance. It is all very well to say that one can get an ordinance by post, but one cannot get it by post with the present postal system and not even with the most perfect postal system if it has been promulgated by printing press at 10.30 a.m. and the operation to enforce it takes place H to 2 miles away at 10.40 a.m. I was here on the day this incident occurred. I was sitting in one of the rooms at a meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs. 1 was informed by telephone that the police were at the Aboriginal embassy. I went there but the police arrived there as quickly as I did. There was no possibility of anyone laying his hands on the ordinance, knowing what it was all about or even appealing for common sense. 
That is what this was all about. Last night, if there was any difference, the circumstances were worse. 
It is hard to believe that in this country at this particular time and in dealing with fellow citizens we should descend to this form of depraved executive action. I still find it unbelievable in the normal course of events. If I had thought that the Government were going to proceed in this way last night I would have waited around for a while, but I just did not believe that that was the way the honourable member for Gwydir, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  his officers and the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  - some of whom I have known for many years - would operate in these circumstances. That is the great disappointment and it is felt on this side of the House and, I think, also or the other side of the House and by a great number of people outside the House. The threat of government by decree hangs over our heads with increasing force and we cannot tolerate it. 
It is a fundamental principle that laws shall be made by public debate, by people publicly responsible. Laws should be explained and discussed in open debate and should be capable of being amended during their passage through the legislative organs. We have a long tradition of this sort of thing. There is some sort of piquancy in this situation when we read of the Eureka Stockade incident. A major source of irritation was the objectionable way in which the licence system was administered. The piquacy lies in the fact that the name of the Governor of the day was Hotham, perhaps represented in this place by the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  who is implementing these actions this afternoon. A report of the Eureka Stockade incident reads: 
On the following day (30th November) Reds ordered a check-up of licences. The police were stoned and several shots were fired. 
The same sort of melee occurred then as occurred outside Parliament House a few weeks ago. So, I will allow whatever part of my imprimatur is fixed upon this document as it passes through the House with the greatest possible reluctance. The first thing we must do is to mute government power and authority. We cannot afford to let all the bumblings of this Government go by. I suppose today's exercise is simply another product of plain, bad government. It affects all those people who depend upon this legislation and these ordinances for such things as adoptions, the ownership of land and all the other matters that go with them. 
What we are debating as much as anything else are the powers of Ministers and what Ministers are. Of course, the Minister for the Interior is a member of this Parliament.  His  charter runs because he is a member of this Parliament. He represents the Australian people here on the same terms as the rest of us. Because he has been exalted to the Ministry does not confer upon him any tremendous wisdom. In fact, some of us think that somehow, Ministers take leave of their senses at this point. Of course, what happens is that they depart from the Parliament, go off down the corridors, shut their doors on the Parliament and become imprisoned inside their departments. Their departmental officers belong to a different set of responsibilities from those applying to members of this House. So, one of the problems that arises today and one of the questions we should be trying to answer is: How are we to get the Minister for the Interior back into this Parliament as a parliamentary officer and not as an executive officer of some mystical being called 'the government'. I do not believe there is a separate entity known as 'the government'. As I have said before and as I say again, I can think of no reason why the people in the electorate of New England should have more ability to have their aspirations carried into executive action than the people of the electorate of Wills or of any other electorate. 
What are the duties of the Minister for the Interior? The Minister for the Interior has had ample opportunity to discuss this matter at great length with people who are concerned with and interested in it. I believe that while initially the Minister acted in this House in a gentle and civilised way in reply to the first question from the lately canonised right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  some of whose actions should require us to turn his portrait in Kings Hall to the wall, he should have consulted people concerned with the matter. He should have been prepared to take the Parliament into his confidence. There should have been some machinery whereby we could have sat together and decided the matter and where the people who were to be effected could have been consulted. I think this is one of the issues involved, namely, how this Parliament is to attain a closer relationship with the Ministers. I believe that is one of our important duties as a Parliament. 
On the other hand, what are our own duties? The court said: 
It is clear enough that this section authorises the making of an ordinance without public scrutiny or parliamentary, debate. 
Obviously, when the Seat of Government (Administration) Act was first passed, the people who permitted that point to be written in were departing from their parliamentary obligations. We must set up a system to scrutinise all legislation and all executive action, no matter what it is. An administrative committee is presently examining administrative action, lt is taking a long time about it. I do not blame it because it is a very complicated area. 
However, we are also here to protect people. We are not just the organs of administration of governmental power. We are the direct representatives of people who have a right to expect from us protection and almost a blanket coverage on their behalf. The other issue involved, of course, is open discussion, which is one area notably lacking in this House. Another point is the legislation itself .mci this is where  1  part company with this operation. When we examine the actual piece of legislation we are supposed to be considering today with its rather complicated titles and the misuse of the English language, which seems to be the only way in which we can draft legislation, we must try to make sure that the legislative, rather than the executive, writ runs in government and that we consider these matters with some proper machiner. From where do regulations flow? They do nol flow from inside the Parliament. It is almost impossible for us to have something thrown into the ring and finally come through as a piece of legislation. Somewhere back in the administrative machinery administrative convenience prevails and that is what decides the form of legislation. Nobody can blame the people who design it. If someone is sitting there as an administering authority, he is going to design his rules and laws in such a way that the administration will be made reasonably easy. 
Therefore, I believe that this situation today is a serious reflection on the Parliament. It is a much more important operation than my friends opposite seem to think. We are forced to accept the fact that the legislation should pass through the Parliament. This document will validate all these matters. My friends opposite might say: 'That is not what we are doing. All that we are validating is the notification.' But of course, the court said yesterday: 'If it is not notified correctly, it is not a valid or operative piece of legislation'. What are we doing? We are taking hundreds of pieces of legislation - I suppose there are more than 100 ordinances on this list, but there are dozens and dozens of others - and we are validating everything that is contained in every one of them. If those pieces of legislation were to come before this Parliament again, would we approve of them? I, for one, would not. 
I have collected a series of these ordinances from the Bills and Papers Office. I refer honourable members to the Police Ordinance 1966, a clause of which states: 
A member of the Police Force shall not, without the written permission of the Minister or a person authorised by the Minister for the purposes of this Section - 
resign from Police Force: or 
cease to serve as a member of the Police Force. 
Penally: Fifty pounds or imprisonment for 3 months. 
I take it that the ordinances we are validating today are rich wilh these pieces of free flowing administrative power. I would not vote for that ordinance if it came before this Parliament again but this afternoon I am asked to vote for it. I wish I had the time to produce the necessary 200 or 300 amendments to exclude from these ordinances all those sections of which one would disapprove. I disapprove of the summary courts - the lower courts - having the power to send people to prison. As 1 have said before and as far as my principles are concerned, if we are to send people to prison, they should be sent there by a jury or not at all. 
Another matter is the writing of this ordinance. It was not written or passed through this place. It was produced administratively. It went through the system. The Minister for the Interior put his signature on it somewhere and so did the GovernorGeneral, bless him, and it passed through the printing press. The validating instrument is not this Parliament; it is the printing press. That is only one ordinance. One only has to take a look at the Motor Traffic Ordinance. We are validating this today. This ordinance contains 147 pages and about 200 clauses. One of the clauses states: 
A person who commits an offence against this Ordinance may be prosecuted summarily before the Court of Petty Sessions and the Court may, where no other penalty is expressly provided, impose a penalty not exceeding One hundred pounds or imprisonment for six months.' 
There are other clauses in this ordinance to which I could refer. While I approve in a way of what might be called the stringency of the penalty, I do not like the style of production. There is a clause that can send a man to gaol for 12 months for drunken driving or impose a penalty of £500 or $500 - I am not sure exactly what it is. 
We are writing legislation which carries heavy penalties upon an individual and which decides the way in which we will do all sorts of things. It is all being verified this afternoon, having passed through the system without being brought into proper public scrutiny. Therefore I believe that we should be saying to the Government this afternoon that the writ of this legislation should run, say, until the end of next year. I would like to put a time limit on it so that in the intervening 15 months or so we could get to work, examine each one of these ordinances and codify the law in the Australian Capital Territory. 
That brings me to the real question of representative government in this city. Some 50 or 60 years ago we had an acorn. We planted it and it has grown into the oak of Canberra. During that time the logical administrative needs of 50 or 60 years ago when Canberra was a tiny community have suddenly become a writ for a community that is nearly half as big as the population of Tasmania and it has no representative function in the legislation. I believe that the time has long passed when we should have established for Canberra a satisfactory representative government in which these laws are passed through the ordinary representative systems of the Australian community and in which the people who have made them have to answer for them. How can a citizen of Canberra approach the Minister for the Interior? It would be carrying his duties as a citizen too far to transfer to the electorate of Gwydir and become one of his constituents so that he could take action against the Minister at the ballot box and retreat from the advantage of being represented by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby). 
A charade is going on here in which an effort is being made to legitimise illegal acts for which penalties have been imposed upon people. All the operations of the past few weeks in particular are to be given some sanction of authority and legitimacy. We ought to be examining the whole situation of the law of the Australian Capital Territory. The Labor Party believes it is vital to do so. I saw what happened to the victims of the events of 20th July, lt was on 20th July about 28 years ago that there was an attempted assassination of Hitler. I saw the people manhandled over here. I saw them with their arms wrenched up behind their backs. I saw the indignity being foisted on them of being thrown into the police wagons. I saw the blood upon their faces. I saw them allayed. We must not perpetuate that situation this afternoon. I believe it is important that, when we come to the particular clause, the House supports the Opposition's amendment. 
The acts of 20th July were invalid. They were illegal and, within the limits of the attitude of civilised communities, they were totally brutal. I believe that the time has come for us to find a new way of establishing rapport between the Government and the citizens. Somehow we must find a better way of dealing with recalcitrant citizens instead of beating them up, throwing them into prison and dragging them into court, particularly when those people are operating, as my friends over the road were operating, in a peaceful, inoffensive and symbolic way. It is a serious reflection on the whole society and particularly on this Government that, in the dealings with one of the least offensive and least violent people on this planet, we had to descend to the final brutality of assault by the Australian Capital Territory police. I regret that the Australian Capital Territory police, for whom I have a great respect and who on the whole carry out their duties as one of the most civilised sections of the constabulary in Australia, were dragged into this operation. This was a case of plain bad government, of executive government run mad. Ministers have failed to take proper cognisance of their charter as members of the Parliament and they have allowed themselves to be totally imprisoned inside their executive and administrative system. Unless this Parliament can take control of the legislation and executive acts which run with its authority, Australia will continue to go down hill. I say, and I hope it is supported by the vote of this House, that the community should no longer tolerate the kind of governmental authority that is being exercised by the people sitting opposite. 
Of course this whole clause is to validate things which have been done in the past, many of which we would probably have disapproved of at the time if we had been here or would disapprove of now if we considered them thoroughly. This should be the occasion on which we do that. The Minister has implied that the people opposite may have been a little confused about the law. They should have been able to understand the judgment and the regulations and the ordinances and known full well that they were not being treated in this way - that they were being treated in that way. Nobody has demonstrated greater confusion than the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Ministry and Government supporters. I suppose one of the most confused persons would be the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  He has not even been allowed to handle the matter in this House. But, to use the phraseology of the Bill, we are purporting or attempting to or, perhaps alternatively, in consideration whereof, or apparently intending to be purporting, to be noting, or notifying in the terms of the classics all these things. Take this one- 
I will read it clearly. I refer to Ordinance No. 20 of 1932 which reads: 
Relating to Trespass on Lands belonging to, or in the occupation of, the Commonwealth within the Territory. 
This is one of those things which we are purporting or attending to or going to do something about. 
There is nothing more tedious than the constant assumption and conceit of the Leader of the House that he is trying to run this place with some decency and courtesy to honourable members on this side of the House. In the long history of human humbug, when it comes to the leading of the House, the honourable member for Hotham would be hard to beat. One clause of this ordinance reads: 
Any such member  of  the Police Force or any such overseer or person may arrest without warrant any person reasonably suspected of having acted in contravention of this section, and may keep him in custody until he can be taken before a Court of Petty Sessions to be tried for the offence of which be is suspected. 
We know of course that the courts of petty sessions cannot very well operate at the moment. What I am asking the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  and the Government to do is take the whole question of law in the Australian Capital Territory and run a cleaner through it properly. We admit the necessity of most of that which has had to be done today for the benefit of those people who were inconvenienced by the incompetence or the accidents of the past. But surely there should be a lesson in all this. The sooner the Minister for Primary Industry can lose some of his conceit and presumption and start to realise that the Government has made a complete botch of this business from go to whoa, the sooner we might get along a bit better. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 4. 
I will try to put to the Committee the point of view of one who was there on the day of the events in question and 1 will try to avoid being tedious. We want withdrawn the charges which are laid against the people who were opposite Parliament House on 20th July when police action was taken in accordance with the requirements of the Trespass on Common"wealth Lands Ordinance. The charges that  a?s  laid are almost ritualistic in such a situation. They are offensive language, resisting arrest, assaulting police, offensive behaviour and so on. What happened on that day? The people were assembled as has been recounted a number of times today. The police arrived and an inspector of police went across to the assembled Aborigines and their supporters. He told them that the ordinance had been promulgated. I walked over to him, assured myself that he had the printed word, and discussed that matter. Then the inspector promulgated it, using a loudspeaker to make it absolutely clear that the police were carrying out their operations under the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. 
In the course of the melee which occurred the police arrested people. They pounced - I suppose that is the appropriate term - upon people and dragged them off as they became available. Therefore the situation arose out of the printing and promulgation of the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. The operation was conducted around the promulgation of the ordinance by police by word of mouth to those people. Then there was a subsequent action. Charges were later laid. My friend the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has asked: How are charges ordinarily laid in this situation? 
A few weeks ago there was a great tumult in one of the city streets of Melbourne as a result of a demonstration about national service. Subsequently I went to the watchhouse to act in my capacity as a justice of the peace. The. police had arrested 13 or 14 people, had taken them to the watchhouse and had locked them up somewhere in the dungeons. I could see that during the course of this operation the police had no possible chance of identifying citizens A, B, C or D as having committed this offence, that offence or anything else. It was quite obvious (hat out in the back of the police station somewhere a scene like this had occurred: How many have you got there, Bill?' 'We have got 1 3.' What are the charges to be?' 'Oh, well, 3 for resisting arrest, 4 for assaulting police, 3 for offensive behaviour and 4 for insulting language.' 
I stood there during the course of the operation and set the bail. It was obvious that the deliberations outside had no possible relationship to the identification of particular sins with particular people. 1 am convinced that that is exactly what happened opposite this place, because I know perfectly well that there would be no chance of the policemen who were involved in these operations being able to say, when they put one person into the wagon and went back to grab somebody else, that the person they had pjt in there was the one they were charging with the offence of having said A, B, C or D. 
We who are charged with the business of creating the law at least ought to know how it is carried out. I have learnt this not through the law courts as my friends opposite have, but because of the duties I perform in my capacity as a justice of the peace and because my office is near the Pentridge Prison I see a lot of the products of this haphazard administration of the law and the laying of charges. The 27 people who have been charged with the 27 offences have this set against them. The eloquent appeal of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the equally eloquent one by my colleague on this side of the chamber surely simply add up to this: In a situation in which there are doubts about whether people acted in response to what is an illegal situation, to turn ordinance A into ordinance B to legalise their actions is not the way in which we conduct the affairs of the Australian nation. I think there is only one reasonable thing to do and that is to withdraw the charges. If the Government will not do that I hope enough members opposite will act to see that this is incorporated in this legislation. Surely to goodness on this occasion we do not have to rely again on the good grace of the Senate to protect commonsense. 1 am not asking for the application of law. I am not asking for technicalities. I am just asking that we uphold the commonsense way in which this Parliament should treat its own citizens. Frankly, for the life of me I cannot see what benefit, profit or advantageflows to the nation or any person by trampling on these people in this situation. 
The Minister for Primary Industry implied that the Government was acting, as he thought, in accordance withwhat the people of Australia would wish. I do not think that is the case at all. In all the conversations one has had about this and the letters and telephone calls one has received I suppose that the weight of opinion in the hearts and minds of the Australian people has been 10 to 1 in favour of the people who were over there in the embassy, and I suppose that is the way all of us would want it it be. So I say to the Government: Either accept the amendment or give an undertaking that you will withdraw the charges. In this situation let humanity and innocence transcend the 'rule of law'. 
I wish to voice brief support for the sentiments expressed by my friend, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I do not know Shepparton all that well, but 1 have driven through it on numerous occasions. Part of the charm of our country towns is the buildings that were put there by our great grandparents and our grandparents. I do not care what is done to the Shepparton Post Office as part of taking it down and putting it up somewhere else; not only is the building being shifted but the charm and character of the street in which it stood is being changed. I am confident that no other country in the world would proceed in this way. It is true enough that we have only 100 years or so of this kind of history. If this generation had been operating in Britain over the last 2 or 3 centuries I have no doubt that the British would  no  longer have Canterbury Cathederal or Westminster Abbey. I believe there is a total Philistine approach to this question of what might be called progress. I oppose it. 
I recall when I first entered this Parliament the long and homeric battles that took place about the Customs House in Melbourne. There were those who said that that valuable building must be destroyed. They said: 'We can put something else on the site'. After long battles in which the Public Works Committee played a very important part, the building has been preserved, I think, to the advantage of Melbourne- certainly to the advantage of the Federal members whose offices are there. It also sets standards different from those that prevail in this rather materialistic and vandalistic age. I am a little disappointed that the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  does not see it that way. I have been through the transcript of evidence taken by the Committee on this matter in a hurried way. I do not think he appeared before the Committee and put a point of view one way or the other. I would expect that members of this Parliament at least ought to be attempting to preserve those aspects of the past which give us charm, character and some stimulation. The longer I live the more gratitude I feel and the more respect I have for my grandparents' generation. Under great difficulties and with minimal resources at their disposal they created many of the things that give Australia its character. I will be astonished if the subsequent building that goes up - probably a glass box and a reinforced concrete structure - will preserve the existing charm of the street in Shepparton where the post office is presently situated. 
It was interesting to hear the adulation of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  for the honourable member for the Northern Territory. It is obvious that the honourable member for the Northern Territory has hidden talents which as yet have not been exposed to the public gaze in this Parliament. I do not advocate the preservation of the buildings at Kormilda College on the grounds of antiquity. At least we can be gratified that they have given long and faithful service since the Army had them erected in 1942. I do not suggest that we know the answers to the problems with which we are confronted. This is not an exercise in criticism of the Government. None of us knows the answers to the questions concerning the development of the culture of the Aboriginal people in such a way that they are able to fit into our societies. The Aboriginal people face a different challenge from the challenge facing the rest of the community, most of whom are able to live in a totally Western European type of society. The Aboriginal must live in a society which is basically Western European, in the numerical state of the nation, and also with his own race. This is a challenge to the intellect, psychology, emotions and spirit of a people and we really cannot understand it. It would be presumptuous for anybody to say he knew the answers. At least we can say that Kormilda is a step in the direction of trying to find the answers. As the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has pointed out, we are a long way short of those answers. 
I should make it clear, though, that the late arrival of the Government in showing interest in Aboriginal education was dictated more by the activities of the Labor Party in this Parliament than by any other factor. The Aboriginal Affairs Committee of the Labor Party has visited Kormilda on several occasions, the last as recently as July of this year. I suggest to the House and to the appropriate authorities the need to start looking beyond Australia's horizons for answers to these questions. My colleague, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  referred to some of the answers that Japanese researchers and social scientists have discovered to some of these questions. The whole problem of education of the Aboriginal people is still a closed book so far as we are concerned. Delving is proceeding throughout Australia, but we do not know the answers. At Easter time when I was in the Northern Territory for a conference of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders I had an interesting discussion with 2 people involved with the Aboriginal people. One was a senior inspector of schools in the Northern Territory. He pointed to the need for the young Aboriginal people who are going to make the pace for their own people becoming completely absorbed in the English language. The other man, who operates in Alice Springs among the Aboriginal people, said how important it was that they should be educated in their own language too. We have not developed techniques for bi-lingual or bi-cultural people in our society and therefore the Committee's investigations have opened up a new area for examination by us. 
As has been pointed out this afternoon, we will have to turn all the wit, will and expertise in the community to the problem. I simply reinforce those statements that have been made about this question. Kormilda College, with all its adventurousness and with the new concept that we hope will develop inside it, will still be faced with tremendous problems with the Aboriginal children who come here. I refer to its utter loneliness and to the fact that children will be taken from their total communities 300 miles or 400 miles away and be placed into another community where basically the people who run it are not of their race. They will be isolated from the general community so we must develop many more techniques for parental involvement and community involvement. I do not think it matters much if we spend a few more million dollars doing this, as it is one of the greatest social and intellectual challenges Australia faces. 
I should like to see more trained Aboriginal people involved on the staff of the College. I would agree that the time has come when we could place there people who do not fit our concepts of what the public service should be. Some of the best people to place as house parents would, of course, be people from the students' own background. The challenge is the same as it is for ourselves. How do we make education for the Aborigines relevant? We have not found the answers yet for adolescent education in Australia and therefore we need not be totally disheartened because we have not found it for the Aboriginal people. I appeal to the House and to the Government to make some general appeal to the international bodies concerned with questions of education and the training of across cultures rather than cross cultures. We should be a little less chauvinistic about these matters and should turn all our wit and will to them. I hope that Kormilda is a success and that we will provide all the resources that it needs. But, as has been pointed out and as is manifest in the evidence which has been made available to me - over 500 pages of it - the staffing and management of Kormilda still has to be a good deal more adventurous. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Is he gratified at the rise in the price of wool? If he is gratified at the rise in the return to wool growers, why does he permit his Ministers to denounce continually the reasonable aspirations of working people to get an increased return for their labour too? 
We support the Bill but we will not be so full of adulation as our friends opposite. After listening to the continual congratulations of the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and the repatriation system on occasions such as this one wonders whether all the cases recorded in the filing cabinets of Federal members are fairy tales. In fact, this Bill does not make any greater progress than any one of the fifty or so tinkerings  that have gone on in the past. Nobody knows what the answers are. Apart from some sort of investigation taking place at present, it is time to look at the system with a view to adopting a new set of principles or to revamping the principles that were adopted about 50 years ago. 
I rather regret the procedures we have adopted. I accept, and my Party has accepted, the need to assist the passage of this legislation so that the benefits may be. paid as quickly as. possible, but I do not believe that this is the way we ought to approach any of these major pieces o social legislation. I hope that in future we will not need to give the legislation such a speedy passage, and we will not do so. In fact, today we are helping tha House of 
Representatives to abdicate all direct responsibility for a complete examination of the repatriation system and to hand it back to the Minister and his Department. The Department is not too bad. The Minister has yet to show that he has any sort of drive at all behind him. So I raise my still, small voice in this matter. 
One of the reasons why I want to speak in this debate is to support the remarks of the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  about the development of cynicism towards the repatriation system over the last few years. There are continual complaints by people. I understand that some people have written books about the system. Members of the medical profession are on record as having attacked the whole system. They have become totally cynical about it. People write leading articles in newspapers pointing out that so many millions of dollars are being paid out and, after all, it is SO years or more since the end of World War I and over 27 years since the end of World War II. They ask: How much longer does this go on?' Perhaps this is a good occasion for the House of Representatives to affirm that it will go on for as long as there is any serviceman or dependant of a serviceman in need of the assistance of the repatriation system. 
I suppose it is reasonable enough for the young to be forgetful and to overlook the fact that the war was real, that it destroyed lives and the rest of it. We have to realise that is a different community from the one into which we were born. There are perhaps one million people in Australia who were not bom in this country. Their approach to the general question of our participation in wars must be different from ours. The general public philosophy about it is unlikely to be outweighed by the feelings of those of us who belong to the generations which fought in 2 world wars. 
It is important that we make sure that the current cynicism has no basis whatsoever. We often meet people who tell us that so and so is getting a TPI pension or some other pension but he never fired a shot. That may be true enough. Many people did not fire a shot. We are told that so and so did not leave Port Melbourne. When people tell me these stories in my office I say: 'Let me know their names, will you?' 
I have not received the name of one person. I suppose that some people get more than their entitlements. I do not know how that can be measured. I certainly know that in my filing cabinet I have details of many cases of people who have received a lot! less than I thought to be their entitlement. 
A few members of the medical profession are on record as attacking the repatriation system. They say: 'He is now 65. He is getting old, battered and bent, anyhow. The fact that he was hit by a bullet at point X is not necessarily the cause of the pains he now has in his heart. That has nothing to do with it.' How can it be proved, one way or the other? The medical profession is more notable for its ignorance of many causes than for its knowledge of the facts of life or death. Members of the medical profession do not know the cause of cancer or heart complaints. They are not certain of the cause of diabetes. They do not know much about the human mind or neurosis. On the question of war neurosis, I am reminded that the very first report of the Repatriation Commission back in 1920 devotes about  H  pages to the subject. It points out how difficult it is to determine the causes of neurosis and how many neuroses develop after return from the war and discharge. They occur for all sorts of reasons. The pressures of war may create latent defects in a person. They are compounded by the pressures of civilian life. I hope that we will squash emphatically all the talk that the repatriation system is one great racket. I do not believe that it is. 
How can the quality of compensation be assessed? How can we compensate a widow? One of my colleagues has told me that his father died 41 years ago.  His  mother has been a widow for 41 years. How can one possibly measure what that means? There is just no way of doing it. How can one measure what being an orphan means? It is true that the soldiers' children's education scheme is one of the most effective and continuous forms of social service operating in this country, but the fact is that the deprivation of the family because of the loss of a serviceman, or the total or partial incapacity of a serviceman, is totally immeasurable. 
How is the compensation to be measured for a person who goes to war and returns reasonably healthy but cannot play cricket or football any more although he is only 23 or 24 years of age? Occasionally he is ill, perhaps once a year or so. He cannot do the things he used to do. The cause may be minor injuries. How is that to be measured over 30 years? I do not think one can measure it. We can only give some compensation. Of course, the point is that in fact the compensation is only a token. In the case of the person who is smashed up in some way and who has immeasurable disabilities and penalties inflicted upon him, all we can do is see that he is treated justly and do the best we can. I suppose we could argue from here to kingdom come about the entitlement of a person who is not totally incapacitated. While the total and permanent incapacity pension might appear to be a substantial sum when it is looked at from the lowly depths of the ordinary pension system, or even when it is looked at from the point of view of a man and his wife who are on the minimum wage, it is still pretty miserable, k it not? 
I should like to remind the House of the particularly poignant position of the victims of Vietnam. We conscripted them. Even those of us on this side of the House, who felt very strongly about conscription and who opposed it as vigorously as we could, were part of the machinery which conscripted them. Young people who were full of vigour were sent to Vietnam. Some 2,000- odd of them were wounded, and a good number of these are incapacitated; some are totally incapacitated. What did we do to our young man of 20 years of age? We took him to Vietnam; he was smashed up; he will never work; he will be imprisoned within the repatriation system all his life. Nobody can say that we did not conscript him into a lifetime of poverty in comparison with the relative affluence of the community and what may well have been his potential. So please do not let us talk about substantial increases in pensions or how gracious we are about it. 
Of course, we can learn lessons from the system. There has been a continual search to produce an equitable system. One finds on the front page of the Repatriation Act some SO references to changes to it. When we turn back to the very beginnings of the Act we see the difficulties that were faced. 
We see that even at that time there was a search for a solution; Australia was facing a difficult problem.  Mr Poynton,  the Minister who introduced the Bill into this House on behalf of the senator who was Minister for Repatriation said: 
I suppose that, in regard to every other piece of legislation introducing reforms, there can be found in some part of the world an example, a copy, upon which to base our efforts. It would be rare, indeed, if we were unable to secure a lead from some source or other. Respecting repatriation, however, we could not look to any other legislative act upon which to base our own Statute. 
It had been traditional for most communities to exploit their soldiers and their servicemen and to neglect them. It is to the credit of our ancestors in this place that they set out to do better than that. In that period they established something that appeared to be better than any system anywhere else. General Birdwood is quoted as saying: 
I have been through the several States and I have come to the conclusion that there is no other country that is doing so much for the soldier as Australia. 
I do not think we can say that now. It would be interesting to make a real comparison between the situation in Australia and that in, say, Canada or the United States of America. So we on this side of the House over recent years have been continuing our campaign for a more liberal interpretation of section 47 of the Act. That section was put in the Act so that the benefit of the doubt would go to the exserviceman absolutely. As I mentioned when I began my remarks, it may be that it is time to examine the whole system in principle and see exactly how we want it to work. Should there be a pension related to disabilities or should there not? But the interesting point in this contest about section 47  -  it is my belief that the section often has been administered the wrong way around - is that when it was amended back in 1943 it was pointed out to  Dr Evatt  who was then the Attorney-General that it would mean that ex-servicemen virtually would be covered for all disabilities which were in any way connected with their war service, and he replied: This is precisely what I intend'. In fact, back in 1943 the whole basis of section 47 was that the nation would make some commitment for the commitment undertaken by the servicemen in being in the Services. We still search for a solution to this problem. Honourable members here say: 'I have been knocked back on this case and on that case'. I do not know why they were knocked back. One can turn to the events of 1920 and look at the remarks of  Mr Hector  Lamond, the honourable member for Illawarra at the time, who said: 
I would like to see some more accurate description of the ground upon which soldiers may be entitled to pensions and benefits. Every honourable member must have received scores of refusals from the Department to deal with cases of merit merely because the injury of the party concerned was stated not to have  resulted  from warlike operations. 
Those remarks were made back in 1920. It is almost time we found a solution to this problem. I do not know what the solution is. I do not think the solution is based simply upon evidence, as my friend the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  says. I think something more is involved in this situation than mere evidence; there is involved an evaluation, a remembrance, of what it is all about - to give every person individual attention. I will say this for the repatriation system: I think this is the way in which it is generally administered. It is a good umbrella once you get in under it, but it is still a bit of a battle for many people in many cases to do so. Of course, honourable members here have mentioned the size of the commitment. In the First World War, 416,000 served and 60,000 were killed; in the Second World War 990,000 served; in Korea that number was 17,000 and in Vietnam it was 49,000. lt is instructive for honourable members to check the schedule and the appendices to the report of the Repatriation Commission and to look at the relationship between the casualties and the number of servicemen being paid pensions. Twenty-odd years after the First World War, pensions were being paid to 65,000 ex-servicemen; 183,000 pensions were being paid 20-odd years after the Second World War. If one looks at the casualties of the 2 wars and compares them one finds that they were 2 or 3 times as heavy during the First World War. The relationship between casualties and benefits shows that those who served in the First World War got a rough deal. When we look at the relationship between those wars and the Korea and Vietnam commitments, we see that we became more generous spirited as time went on. It may well be that at that stage we took some dramatic step to recapture the lost opportunities to be more generous to people, particularly those who served in the First World War. 
I regard the repatriation system as a very important function of government. I would regard any tinkering with the apparatus in such a way that it became just part of the general social services system as being to the disadvantage of the exservicemen and against the general principles for which it was established. However, I believe there are many areas of the system which ought to be expanded - for instance, the education scheme for the children of soldiers. Perhaps we ought to do more in relation to those whose death is not directly attributable to war service. As I say, the repatriation system is a very good umbrella for those who are in it. I think we could look at the question of pensions applying to children of school age. The idea of cutting off a pension when a child turns 16 is irrelevant in the society in which we live. 
So it is worth remembering what war service was all about and continuing to remind the citizens what it was like to be there. What was it like to be at Gallipoli? What was it like to be on the Somme? What was it like to be in .the western desert? What was it like to fight on the Kokoda Trail? As I remember it, when the 7th Division went into action on the Kokoda Trail it was 13,000 or 14,000 strong, but by the time the operation was over 5 or 6 months later - what with battle casualties, killed and wounded, malaria and all the rest of it - there had been almost a complete turnover in the Division. Countless thousands of people were never recorded as casualties. Men stayed in the line until their temperature reached over 100 degrees, as I understand it. What did that do to people? Why is it that one knows ex-servicemen who are dying unexpectedly in their forties? It seems to me that among the people with whom I associate this is occurring more in relation to ex-servicemen than in relation to people in the general community in the same age group. 
I do not know whether there are any adequate statistics on this. I do not know whether a close run has been kept on, say, an infantry battalion so that its members could be tracked down in order to compare them with a control group in the community of  700, 800  or  1,000  people. The people who enlisted were the fittest people we could get. It is not even fair to say that their casualty rate from heart disease is now identical with the rate applying in the rest of the community. When they enlisted they were not identical with the rest of the community. They were a special group. My medical colleagues may say: 'We cannot relate this heart condition or this cancer to war service'. I know that we cannot do so. However, we make a plea from this side of the House - I suppose it is a belief that exists in the hearts of many other people and I know it is not the issue - for lost ground to be made up. I am disappointed that this debate on repatriation has arisen in this way. If the Opposition agreed to let the Bill pass through all its stages today the Minister's second reading speech and the Bill itself should have been handed to us before the debate commenced. We have been able to deal with this subject in only a slightly perfunctory way. 
I hope that the Senate committee really goes to work on this subject. It is a pity that this chamber has not done so. I assure honourable members that as far as I am concerned it will be a long time before large numbers of Australians get more than they deserve from the Australian repatriation system. One of my constituents was knocked to pieces on The Somme in  1916  or  1917.  He had a smashed hip. He carried it all his life. He would be out of work for a week and return to work for  2  months and then would be off work for a month. He led a reasonably miserable existence. When he died at  65  they said that his heart condition had nothing to do with his war experiences. I just do not believe that the human frame was designed to carry around smashed limbs or painful parts of the human anatomy for  40  or  50  years, for the heart to take it, and for the person concerned to go down smiling. It is time for a total revaluation not only of medical benefits but also of all kinds of coverage we are prepared to give to any person who served in our forces. Service was an emotional, psychological and almost spiritual commitment and we should not let ourselves be howled down by the medical profession, by the writers of leading articles or by anyone else. It is a question of commitment by the community of the same order as the servicemen accepted when they committed themselves during wartime. 
I could think from the remarks made by the apologists on the opposite side of the House that the Aboriginal situation was much more rosy than it is. In fact it is a deep disgrace that the Parliament should have to be considering an amendment, offered in all sincerity, in terms such as this and at a time such as this. I am minded to look back 15 years when I moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party for the discussion of a matter of public importance - this very subject. The terms of the discussion were:  the failure of the Government to care for the well-b:ing of persons of aboriginal and part aboriginal blood by not providing State Governments with sufficient funds and not extending the payment of social services benefits to and on behalf of these persons. 
We have made some progress since then. Now the Government is making some money available to the States. The Opposition says that it is not enough while honourable members opposite say that it has been quite magnificent. But what does it really amount to? A total of $14m, about the price of one Fill aircraft. We have fixed up the social services benefits more or less although there are still some very serious defects in some areas, such as unemployment benefits. During the course of that debate I quoted the following which was written in 1 839: 
I am distressed for the blacks - I cannot feed them as I would - I have no clothing for them - I find I shall be obliged to relinquish giving them flour as my stock is growing short. 
That was said of the situation that existed then in Victoria. A little later I discovered some remarks by a former leader of the Country Party and former Minister for Trade and Industry, the right honourable  Sir John  McEwen. To this end he said when he was a Minister back in 1939 that he had envisaged a long range policy. The Country Party is long on long range policies and long on statements but it is short on real action, and the Liberal Party is no better. It is a long, long haul. It is a disgrace that a country as wealthy as Australia should find any difficulty in supplying the material needs of no matter how large a minority. The Aboriginal minority is about 1 per cent of the population. There is no excuse for Aborigines to be badly housed. There is no excuse for their economic situation to be depressing. There is no excuse for the inadequacy of education and health services anywhere in Australia. There may well be plenty of excuses for not having found a solution to the social problems of people of 2 cultures living together. That, I will admit, is something to which we still have to find the answer. But there is no excuse for us to have to be debating in all sincerity today the matters that have been placed before the House. 
Let us take one of them - land rights. Honourable members opposite just cannot see what it is all about. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  speaks about land rights in the same way as we speak about land for the development of housing, for the development of cattle and sheep stations, sugar production or mining. They regard land as a useable, convertible, private proprietary asset. That is not what it is all about. It has little to do with the actual commercial properties of land at all. It has to do with a whole attitude of mind, but it seems to be very difficult to get that through to honourable members opposite. One is gratified that the Labor Party has come wholeheartedly to the view that the concept of land rights is fundamental to our social conscience and the well being of the Aboriginal people of Australia. We have debated land rights in this House so often. We have discussed it at great length. We had a select committee about 9 years ago which went to Arnhem Land and examined the grievances of the people of Yirrkala. But no matter how much we speak, how much evidence we can produce or how often anthropologists and others deeply concerned with the Aboriginal people produce attitudes, ideas and concepts about this problem, we cannot get past the materialistic concept of honourable members opposite. This was the case with the honourable member for Angas (Mr Giles) and the honourable member for the Northern Territory. They have a different way of looking at it. 
There is no point in mentioning the 94,000 square miles or whatever it is in the Northern Territory to which the Aborigines have access. Even if they have access to it, who runs it? It is not even run by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  but the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  The Minister for the Interior is the emperor of that part of the Interior republic, where his writ and the authorities' writ run. Most of the houses that have been built in many places in the past - we may have changed the policy in recent months - are built for staff. There has to be a total change in our attitude. I have heard statements from Ministers, particularly from the Country Party, that what we are sponsoring is apartheid, that we want them to live separately. 
We do not want anything of the sort. We are not sponsoring anything to which can be applied any normal English terminology. I thought that my colleague, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  hit it in a masterly fashion when he pointed out the mysticism behind our own concept of crown land and so on. All we have to do is accept the principle that there are parts of the Australian continent which are Aboriginal domain. We might have to pass an Act and somebody might dredge out of history or out of the Aboriginal language or our own language some terminology which breaks away from the concept of tenure, of freehold, of exploitation, of assets creation and of commercial profitability. 
What is wrong with people living in a community on their own, away from other communities? Are they not still part of the country? Being a part of a community has no geographical significance whatsoever. Is the man who serves in the lighthouse at Wilsons Promontory, tens of miles from anywhere, still a part of the Australian community? Of course he is; it is the way one feels about it. We on this side of the House are determined that we will do whatever is necessary to satisfy the spiritual longing of the Aboriginal people in regard to land rights. Nobody is going to say here and now that the South Australian exercise has provided a total solution to the problem. We do not know exactly what the total solution is. We probably will need to establish some sort of land claims commission so that in certain areas land can be set aside in traditional ways. 
Surely it would not be difficult for this Parliament with the power it has at its disposal to pass an Act - an Aboriginal lands Act - and declare all those reserves throughout Australia which presently have dotted lines around them Aboriginal land so that they could be tinkered with only by Act of Parliament. They are all vulnerable. Nothing is more vulnerable than a piece of Aboriginal land in Australia at present. In most States and certainly in Commonwealth Territories, parts of this land can be excised by simple proclamation. 1 remember the shock we all felt back in 1962 and 1963, when the battle was joined about the lands of the people of Yirrkala, to find that Arnhem Land, which we thought was inviolate, could have pieces excised out of it simply by proclamation. 
We must find a new concept and I would think that any parliament worth its salt, with all the powers at its disposal and with the campaigns and the spiritual longings of the Aboriginal people to support it could easily think up some Aboriginal lands Act which would set this out, even if after that we had to find the way in which the land was to be owned and controlled. I am not in favour of freehold land in this situation anymore than I think I am in most other circumstances. I deplore the tinkering that is occurring at present with the situation in Canberra. So, that is what we are talking about when we speak about land rights. I can think of no reason at all why an Aboriginal community, even if it is 200 miles from anywhere, cannot be a satisfactory Australian community, asserting its own individuality and still being a part of the Australian scene. Other parts of the world have found answers to these questions; why cannot we? 
I do not suppose anything demonstrated more effectively the Government's attitude to this matter than its attitude to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. In the Cocos Islands, thousands of miles away, lives  Mr CluniesRoss  who apparently owns the area lock, stock and barrel, body, baggage, chassis and all. We were having trouble with him. Of course, he is a man of great distinction. He has been to Oxford and he is white. So the Government sent a Minister of the Crown thousands of miles to see  Mr Clunies-Ross.  Only the best form of transport was good enough to take the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  to the Islands to negotiate. I do not know how many times the Minister for the Interior walked across the road to Parkes Place to negotiate with the people over there. Certainly, the people who were camped on the lawns came inside the House. But how many Ministers of the Government walked across and sat on the grass to negotiate with them? That is all we ask. We should deal with people with a proper sense of dignity and if it is not possible at this stage to get across to the Government the actual spiritual situation in regard to land rights, then the members of the Government Parties are a lost cause. 
My colleagues and I are also sponsoring the demands for housing. There will be hundreds of Aboriginal families who will go to bed cold, hungry, wet, miserable and uncomfortable tonight. Nobody is suggesting the provision of Melbourne suburban type houses for the people in central Australia but surely nobody suggests that we do not have the wit and the will and the financial capacity to solve the housing problems of people, wherever they are - the people of Torres Strait, which is one of the neglected areas of Australia, the people of Arnhem Land or of central Australia. I recall when we first visited Yirrkala the people there said: 'We do not want too much of a house at this stage'. I think the thing that impressed them most was the septic system which was installed at the school; it was sewered. They said: 'We would like that to start with and a house of this sort of size and some amenities so that we can grow with them'. That is not asking much. To talk about a handful of houses throughout Australia at this stage I think is a disgrace. Australia is a wealthy country. We are able to spend SI 00m or thereabouts on an opera house, all raised from raffles. If we can do that, we can do anything. 
My colleagues have specified the difficulties existing in regard to health. Surely this should worry everybody. It has been gratifying to hear over the last few days that the members of the medical profession are getting upset about it. They are publishing articles. Members of the Opposition have been talking about Aboriginal health for 15 years. I have a report about the health of the people living at Cunnamulla. I shall just take a page at random. It refers to the situation of Aboriginal people and says that Aboriginal children provide at least 10 per cent of all infant deaths, at least 28 per cent of all second year deaths and about 9 per cent of the deaths in the 2 to 4 years age group. Yet, the Aboriginal or partAboriginal population comprises only about 1 per cent of the Australian total. There are different figures for different parts of Australia. Australia was one of the first countries to conquer infant mortality and we were probably one of the first to conquer tuberculosis but apparently this will be the last thing we will do for the Aboriginal people. Therefore, we are sincere and earnest about the amendment that we have placed before the House. 
Somehow, we must find answers to some even more difficult questions. One such problem is the economic development of areas in which young Aboriginal people will grow up. They will grow up in an environment which is totally different from that in which their parents developed themselves. So, despite the rejection by Aborigines, and perhaps in the concept of land rights and the materialistic view of things, we must do something about this in the North. I do not think it will be of any use for the country if the Aboriginal people have to leave the north and settle in Sydney, Melbourne or elsewhere. When we are talking about decentralisation we must do something about this. We must do something about the employment of Aboriginal people who have settled around the towns. There are thousands of them throughout Australia and they are the first victims of unemployment. Their education is poor and their general social stability has always been bad. They are the first victims of the winds of economic change. Retraining programmes are necessary and we must accept the view that many of them will be failures for the first, the second and the third time. Those of us who have been concerned with Aboriginal organisations, as I have been, over the years have found what a difference 10 years make to a person's maturity. We have become accustomed to a person reaching a certain stage at the age of 14 years, another stage at the age of 18 years and, if he has not started to make the distance by the age of 20 years, he is a bit of a lost cause. 
In general, my experience from observation leads me to believe that we must at least be prepared to persevere with the Aboriginal people for another 15 to 20 years after we have given the average young Austraiian away because, for all sorts of reasons, Aborigines mature into our view of things at a much later stage. We have the administrative capacity to handle any number of individuals as individuals. When people say what happens in the south, that we cannot do such things from Canberra or that it is all different over there, it leaves me cold. We have a community that can administer every Australian. The Commissioner of Taxation is able to pursue every person to the last cent of his income tax. We are able to track down young Australians all over the place because they have not registered for national service. We are able to ensure that anybody, no matter where he is, votes effectively at Federal elections. We have to start to treat the Aboriginal people with the same individual concern for each person as we do, say, under the repatriation system. 
My colleagues have raised the question of education. It is certainly long past time that we began to teach much more about the Aboriginal people inside the ordinary Australian schools. I expect we will have achieved something when a number of secondary schools are perhaps teaching some Aboriginal languages as a second language, because I presume that most of the teaching of second languages has nothing to do with the advantage of having learnt them but is more to do with the appreciation of other cultures. The Aboriginal person, no matter how and where he lives, has to be bi-cultural. The rest of us can do as we like. We arc part of the majority and everyone else has to put up with us. But the Aboriginal young people, particularly those who live in the north who are still associated with their tribal backgrounds, have to develop in 2 cultures. 
One other point I want to make deals with consultation with the Aboriginal people. I have been associated with the Federal Council for the advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders since its inception. Those of us who have belonged to it for all these years are gratified that it has such a singular impact on the community. None of us is conceited enough or presumptuous enough to say that all or any of the things that have happened have happened simply because we were associated with it. It is an operational unit whose tentacles cover the whole of the continent, sometimes in a tenuous form. It has people in contact. Generally speaking, the Council does not have members as such. People are affiliated with it. The difference between the kind of council which the Minister created and the operations of the Federal Council are that the Federal Council has let itself grow in a more haphazard way. When it goes to Alice Springs anybody can go. 
What we should be doing now is setting up operational conferences or discussions throughout Australia to which anybody within reaching distance  -  150 miles or 200 miles.- can come and talk and think col lectively. My personal observation is that the continuing conferring and coming together with the Aboriginal people more than any other single factor has raised their morale, their self reliance and their total self respect. If there is any gratification one can obtain from having been called all sorts of things in this business it is from the fact that the Aboriginal people now stand up and speak for themselves. Sometimes they speak in voices with which I disagree, but 1 do not mind that. The essence of the contract is that they are speaking for themselves. This is what we have to do. 
If, as 1 suspect, the Government has on occasions attempted to form another organisation to speak for or to represent the Aboriginal people, I think that is divisive. Those of us who are concerned with politics should know full well that the going concerns are the ones which ought to be sponsored and encouraged. I place on record my respect for all those who, over the 15 or 16 years in which the Federal Council has been in business, have selflessly and in all sorts of dedicated ways thought and worked for and expanded the opportunity of the Aboriginal people of Australia to be an effective part of the community. Some of the founders, such as  Mrs Blackburn,  are dead now. Some like  Dr Duguid  are still alive and well. I think that that organisation has a basis upon which any sorts of operations could be expanded. 
I am not too sure that, in the councils which the Minister creates, he pays quite enough respect to people - not to people like me. I am an incidental part of it. I am just a national runner. But those Aboriginal people who created the Federal Council, who have kept it alive, who have been about and have carried on the battle sometimes in a most hostile environment, ought to be given a great deal more respect even though they are grateful for the occasional assistance for fares and such things when it turns up. The main thing is that it does not matter what the Aboriginal people say as long as they start to speak up loud and long. After all, we are used to a lot of eccentric views being expressed, particularly from the other side of this House. But we do not suppress honourable members opposite nor do we pay them less respect for it. 
-! wonder why honourable members on the Government side have no concern at all about government schools. I wonder why in his speech the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  seemed to concentrate almost exclusively upon the nongovernment schools. He implied that there was something wrong with' the government schools or the state schools. In his application of his attitude towards the needs test which the Australian Labor Party would apply to aid to schools, he used the terms in such a way that one would presume from his statement that all the diligent people, all the intelligent people and all the right minded people were in the non-government schools and that the others were in the state school system. I do not know why he is so critical of the state schools. It is true that the state school system turned out people such as the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown).  The schools cannot be blamed for his politics perhaps, but there does not seem to be much wrong with his intellect. Probably the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  is even a product of a state school system. 
I wonder why in the last few years the Government has turned education debates into debates about the extraordinary value of the so-called independent schools and the rather offbeat, unnecessary nature of the government schools. Of course, they have not been debates about education at all. I do not think the honourable member for Denison touched the subject. It is a school room versus the ballot box debate. Honourable members opposite are not a bit concerned about what goes on in the school; they are concerned only with what goes into the ballot box. I think it is time that the community itself paid very close scrutiny to the way in which schools are being financed and the way in which the Commonwealth has entered the field, lt is part of the play by honourable members opposite to decry the suggestion of a schools commission. The Government has established the Commission on Advanced Education and the Australian Universities 
Commission. What is wrong with another commission to deal with various other areas, whether it is schools in general, preschools or anything such as that? Why does it suddenly create a great centralised bureaucracy? Why ls it that the Commonwealth public servants, who administer these things, suddenly take on the vision of being ogres of the nth degree when honourable members opposite speak. 
I do not believe that honourable members opposite have applied themselves to the subject at all. It is not just a question of aid to private schools. As I have said before, this aspect of education is increasingly becoming a public scandal. It has nothing to do with the general direction of education in Australia. I said here  8  or  9  years ago when the Commonwealth first embarked upon a programme of finance for non-state schools in the provision of science blocks and then libraries: 'Where ls it going to end?' Honourable members opposite say it is reasonable to take  40  per cent as the level of the Government's support for non-government schools. I do not know why it should be reasonable to take  40  per cent. That is not where it will stop. There will be an edging along all the time. There will be campaigns claiming that it should be  50  per cent. There will be those who say: 'It is reasonable that it be half. After all, this is a partnership'. Then of course there will be those who say it should be more and it should be more. We are on a slippery path of continued subvention of public funds into private schools. 
One of the major differences between government and non-government schools is that the non-state school does not accept a public responsibility. A person can turn up to a non-state school with his family and knock on the door and say: 'I have just come from Turkey, Greece or Britain. I have children of  16  and  15  years of age and I want to come in'. The school authorities say: 'You cannot come in. You should have written to us  6  years ago'. They might ask: 'Did your parents attend school here?' or: 'How much money have you?' But when a person goes to a state high school and knocks on the door, he is admitted as of right, and there is a totally different public responsibility. I do not care what sort of sophistry comes from the other side of the House; that seems to be one of the fundamental issues. People who accept public funds, certainly in such massive proportions as non-government schools are getting them, should accept a responsibility, but that is not the case. Honourable members will probably say: 'Oh, yes, but such and such a school takes children at  6  years of age or at  17  years of age or they take children of members of the clergy at half rates'. They will say all sorts of things. How many Turkish migrant children are at Melbourne Grammar School? How many are at any of the other expensive schools? Then we come to this point: From what are they independent? Are they independent from public money? Of course they are not. This debate is about that very thing. Are they independent of curriculum? Of course they are not. They are proceeding through the school system I would think, around Melbourne anyhow, probably in a much more restricted way than some of the State secondary schools. They are not independent at all, except perhaps independent of public responsibility. 
One of the intriguing things about this debate today and the earlier one that took place is the way in which there has been an injection in the last  12  or  15  years into debate here of the subject of education and Aborigines  - 2  areas in which  12  or  13  years ago honourable members opposite and in particular their leadership said: 'We have no responsibility'. What should the Commonwealth be doing about education? Are the things it is doing the ones that ought to be done? Money is not enough. It is a big help, as we all know, both privately and publicly. But what is the Commonwealth doing to challenge the things that are basic to the needs of Australian education? The education systems of the world, and in this country as much as in any other, face a totally different world from the one in which we were educated and through which people of my generation passed on the way to employment and other things. It was relatively simply  20  or  30  years ago to say: 'This is the objective of education. We are trying to turn out people with reasonable skills, with literacy and with a certain academic capacity'. And the further that one went through the system the higher the demand for academic excellence. We were producing professional people, trained people or skilled people. We were producing literate people at any rate. There was not much challenge, generally speaking,  30  or  40  years ago.  lt  is true  that  throughout the world, even in Australia's conservative education systems, thinking was going on but there was not any great ferment inside the education systems. We have to think of new directions for education. We are not to subsidise the continual conservatism of the Australian education system. The Commonwealth has to set up new standards. As I have said before - I suppose if one says it long enough it may well be taken up by honourable members opposite - schools in Canberra, for instance, are part of the educational laboratory available to the Commonwealth authorities. But unfortunately, from my observations and from the actions of the young people who sat on the grass opposite Parliament House recently partly on strike and partly I suppose because it was a nice day, children in the schools of Canberra seem to find themselves in a very restrictive system. They had complaints about the management of the schools worrying about the kind of clothes they wore and the length of their hair. This is part of the past. In general we have to face the fact that the new school uniform is jeans or some such form of dress. But this should not be one of the arguments going on inside the schools. We have to take the general view that the world is now a different place and we should look at it again. Over the last 10 or 12 years in which the Government has been pouring vast sums of money into education, what has it done? There were weaknesses and characteristics of the Australian education system. There were great inequalities in education based upon the economic situation of a particular society. A child from a basic wage home had a much less chance of getting a good education than a child from a home with greater means. There is no evidence anywhere that the child from the home with greater means is brighter on the average than the child from the working class homes. In fact, as the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  has just reminded me, about 50 per cent of bright children are the children of working class people, the tradesmen, but only a relatively small proportion, perhaps onesixth or one-seventh of them, get to university. 
Then there is the question of geography. Are we really doing anything under this System to reduce the inequalities that flow from the geography of Australia, that is, the disadvantages of living in certain country or suburban areas? Or the geographical differences between States - the great distance disadvantages of many areas of Queensland, for instance. Are we doing anything to ensure that more women obtain the great advantages of education rather than having the great drop-out rates when they are in their teens? What are we doing about Aboriginal education? This legislation does not challenge that. Australian education, as with all education, has been continuously conservative. How much adventurous spirit will this Bill engender? The education system is underserviced. I would think that the average school, particularly the average State school, is very short on the services behind the teaching service, but we are doing nothing about that. The Commonwealth has tackled some of the problems of teacher education, but not all that many. I understand that in Victoria there is likely to be about 500 university graduates this year but there will be no adequate accommodation for them inside the secondary teaching services in the training system. Somewhere along the line somebody should be able to produce the wherewithal to overcome this. We cannot produce instant teacher colleges, of course, but with support from Commonwealth funds we probably can allow these people to get their teaching training over a wider range of the State. 
Then there are special areas of education which the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  mentioned. What are we doing about handicapped people, slow learners, isolated children and the other special areas of education which form an almost endless list? The Commonwealth's approach to these matters is still piecemeal, with the scattering of largesse and a failure to grapple with the real problems. What does this system do for the people I represent? I have here a schedule of non-state schools in my electorate and non-state schools in the electorate of Kooyong. I chose them as a fair sample. In Kooyong there are the relatively wellheeled people while in Wills there are the solid, perceptive, politically-sound citizens, but generally speaking, on a lower income. I seek leave of the House to have this table titled 'Grants to Non-State Schools 1971 incorporated in Hansard. I spoke to the Minister who had been at the table and he agreed to its inclusion. The details in the table were extracted from the 1971 reports. I have made a list of the schools in the suburbs that basically comprise Kooyong - Balwyn, Kew and Hawthorn - and the suburbs that basically comprise Wills - Brunswick, Coburg and Pascoe Vale. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="080131197209265_86_0.jpg"></graphic>

If the State aid system is to take up all these difficulties it should do something about the problems of which I have spoken. In 1971, $808,000 went to non-state schools in the suburbs I have mentioned which basically form Kooyong I did not go to the map to determine whether this or that school was inside or outside the dotted lines. But what of schools in Wills? Only $227,000. But what are the facts of life? Wills has a population of 117,000 while Kooyong has a population of 95,000. Even those Catholics so dedicated to the concept of state aid should examine this aspect closely. In Wills there are 49,000 Catholics while in Kooyong there are 23,000 Catholics. From any angle from which we care to look at this, the problems that have been created are not answered. There are other areas of inequality. The 1966 census figures when related to present boundaries reveal that 3,600 university graduates live in Kooyong while 424 live in Wills. In the other areas of tertiary education, 4,500 students live in Kooyong while 1,200 live in Wills. There are 54,000 primary education students in Wills and 27,000 in Kooyong. There are 3,000 professional people in Wills and about 8,000 in Kooyong. Wills has 30,000 labourers; there are 10,000 in Kooyong. This situation should be reversed. Anybody taking on the Australian system to remedy it should be reversing that situation so that instead of there being $800,000 in grants to Kooyong and $200,000 to Wills it would be the other way round. That is why I challenge the system, and I speak tonight for those people in the Wills electorate. 
The whole system is so off and so wrong. Inside the State system there is no school inside Wills which is like the Kew High School. Let me refer now to the ancillary services such as libraries. Wills is a very densely populated area. In the Moonee Valley regional area, which covers Brunswick, expenditure per head on library facilities is 91c; in Canberra it is $4.50 and in the Camberwell-Waverley area which is something like the Kooyong electorate, it is $2.36. The Brunswick-Moonee Valley area has the highest population but the lowest amount of library expenditure and the least number of books. I have in front of me a schedule covering 6 or 7 areas throughout Australia. We should be doing something about the situation at Princes Hill primary school where the infants school building is 60 to 70 years old. There are 89 Italian and 74 Greek students at the school. The Newlands High School, with which I am closely associated, is doing perhaps not so badly, apart from its austerity. 
What about migrant education? Thousands of children in Brunswick and Coburg are being deprived of the advantages of living in Australia because of the failure of the Government to tackle even that simple, direct and very noteworthy problem. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is now making great speeches about it, but let us consider what these schools are like. Moreland High School has 923 students and covers a total area of 1.7 acres. The school did not have enough room to put seats in the grounds after it had bought them. Some of the school buildings belong to the early 1900s. Seventy-five per cent of the students of Moreland High School are migrants. The libraries are inadequate. One of the more interesting things which again is a challenge to the sponsors of the independent schools, so-called, is that at least 2 schools, Newlands and Moreland, have taken up the challenge of the new generation of school children and the new look of education. Moreland is one of the experimental areas. One of the heartening factors is that despite the restrictions, the drabness, the austerity and the inadequacies, people still are able to tackle these problems in a professionally skilful and adventurous way. The fourth form at Moreland High School is undergoing a totally different education year. The children can proceed on project systems of all sorts which take them out into the community and give them a totally different classroom relationship. 
I suggest that it is time this Parliament took as its first duty the raising of the standards of non-state schools in Australia, and the application of a common sense approach to the question of other schools. People argue that they should not be called wealthy schools. It is not the schools that are wealthy; it is the parents. People will argue about how much it costs to send children to a state school. They will quote all sorts of odd figures. If one looked up the report of the Commonwealth Grants 
Commission, one would see that in Victoria, of the expenditure on state school education, some S8m or S9m goes in the transport of school children and $23m or thereabouts goes to the training of teachers. 
These expenditures belong to the whole system. They should be charges against nonstate schools as much as against state schools. It is possible in Victoria to travel a long distance to a non-state school and receive a travelling allowance. In areas such as the one I represent, I do not think anybody travels a sufficient distance to obtain a travelling allowance to attend, say, Newlands High School or Moreland High School. 1 do not know how much money is paid by the State in travelling allowance to, say, Melbourne Grammar or Ivanhoe Grammar but, so far as I am aware, nothing is paid to students attending schools such as Moreland High School. 
I believe this Bill reverses all the principles to which we should apply ourselves in considering the social needs of Australia. To those who have, it is going to be given in ever increasing quantities. Therefore, I believe that the House should support the Opposition's amendment as an expression of principle, accepting the fact, as the honourable member for Fremantle has said, that people have planned for next year and therefore will have to put up with it for 12 months. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
For how long is the House to meet when we do return? Will it be for 3 weeks or 4 weeks? For how long is this nonsense of waiting around for the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to decide when he will announce the date of the election to continue? Of course, under the Constitution, the Prime Minister can defer everything until 20th January. Is he going to do that? There are electoral organisations, public servants and a whole community waiting around Australia for a decision on this matter. Countless thousands of people concerned with polling booths are involved. Printers are involved. There is a whole operation involved. Is the Parliament to return for 3 weeks, 4 weeks, or l½ sessions? 
For Heaven's sake, can the Government not make one simple decision for once about a constitutional operation? It is no good the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  looking like a thunder cloud waiting for something to happen just because honourable members in this House want to have their say on certain matters. The organisation of the House this morning has been most haphazard simply because of the discourtesies that ordinarily prevail from the other side of the House. I do not blame only the Leader of the House for this. Will he tell us for how long the Parliament is to meet when it resumes on Tuesday week? 
I address my question to the honourable member for St George in his capacity as  Chairman  of the Indonesian Sub-Committee of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Is it a fact- 
It is essential that Standing Orders be suspended to enable this debate to proceed. It seems to me that while the Leader of tha House  (Mr Chipp)  may give an undertaking that if it is possible in the near future this debate will be continued it is highly unlikely that this will happen. I say this with the greatest possible, respect to the honourable gentleman. It is clear that the procedures of the House are not adequate to meet the present situation. The  Chairman  of the Publications Committee used a procedure of the House which prevents any honourable member from discussing his remarks, although my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  did receive permission to make a statement. It should have been obvious to the Leader of the House and to those responsible for planning today's business that a number of other members of the Opposition would want to discuss this matter. That is my first point. My second point is that in consideration of matters of a contentious nature time should be allowed for a proper expression of different points of view from both sides of the House. A motion should have been moved rather than permission being given for a person, in this instance the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  to make a statement. 
I assert that it is highly unlikely that this matter will again come on for debate in this House. In the last few years we have had dozens of similar instances. There is only one way in which the. debate can proceed, and that is to allow it to proceed now. I admit the validity of the remark of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  that honourable members have hardly had time to see the report and that most would not have had time to read it, but there are a number of honourable members who have been involved closely in this report, of which the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  is one, who may want to speak. On the Publications Committee the Opposition is represented by the honourable member for Sturt, the honourable member for Hughes, and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  The honourable member for Hughes tells me that he did not know that this matter was to be raised at this particular time. He was not adequately prepared for it, nor was he given adequate notice. 
I support the motion of the honourable member for Sturt on the grounds that the parliamentary procedures in this instance are completely inadequate. The procedures are being misused so that the Government's position can be stated and no effective Opposition point of view can be expressed. The report indicates that members of the Labor Party who were members of the Publications Committee moved various amendments. I believe these should be debated in the House. However this debate is to be restricted. This is an example of various reports which are presented to the Parliament and which pass into limbo or are pigeonholed somewhere. At present it would be completely relevant to debate the activities of the Post Office and the printing of the pink pages of the telephone directories. For instance, it would be relevant to consider the requirements of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in respect of the presentation of opposing points of view on various topics. At present if representatives of the Government say that they will not take part in a debate, as the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs did in respect of a recent debate on 'This Day Tonight', the situation is that an opposing point of view cannot be expressed. The whole approach of the Government on these matters is to restrict debate and to inhibit proper discussion of a matter. The honourable member for Sturt, as a member of the Publications 
Committee, should be heard on this matter and either the Standing Orders should be suspended or the Government graciously should give him leave to make a statement. 
This sort of thing happens so often that one would think that ultimately even the Government would recant. This morning perhaps almost 20 minutes have elapsed since the honourable member for Sturt rose to speak. The Leader of the House refused him leave to make a statement because there was insufficient time, but the subsequent discussion about the rights of members has occupied more time than would have been available for the honourable member for Sturt to make his speech. This is the totally erratic and nonsensical way in which this House is being manipulated. It prevents this House from being a proper debating forum. The restriction of debating time and the plain bad management of this House are enough to make the angels weep. 
Sitting suspended from i to 2.15 p.m. 
As the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  sits down one almost feels as though we ought to send around the plate. 
Yes, I have contributed in terms of humanity and tolerance tonight in listening to you. The honourable member for Cook asserted that Australia does not tie its aid. It is my understanding that some of our aid - not a very large proportion of it - in fact is tied. The honourable member said, of course, that our aid is non-political. For instance, some years ago I think we were part of the voting pattern that prevented North Vietnam from joining the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East and so on. Do not say to us that this Government is non-political in its foreign relations and so on. Do not say to us that all our aid is  based upon humanitarian motives. Of course, it is not. Some of it is and some of it is not. Some of it is hard-headed and some of it is generous. Honourable members opposite should not give themselves a dislocated shoulder from patting themselves on the back about it. 
The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  made some comments about compassion. If there is anybody more notably lacking in compassion than this Government in moments of great crisis I would like to know who he is. I instance the Bangladesh disaster of last year. There were refugees, floods, and all the rest of it, and we were almost the last country to move in any effective way. The same comments apply to the Uganda situation. I do not know how many people from Uganda ought to be allowed to come to Australia. I think that whoever applies to come here ought to be judged upon his merits, but certainly the way in which we have operated as Australians- 
A country that can stand the honourable member for Mcpherson can stand anything. In a world of trouble and worry and hardship we have done little enough in these matters unless we have been driven into a corner by public clamour or something else. The next point I make is this: I understand that tonight we are debating the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs. This is the occasion on which the House places before the Minister its views on these matters. I want to know why the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  is not paying the House the courtesy, as he is duty bound, of sitting at the table tonight. I have been here long enough to know that anybody who has any real respect for the parliamentary institution has no right to be anywhere else when the estimates for his department are before the House. One of my principal criticisms of the Minister is his total discourtesy and disregard for the Parliament itself. Foreign affairs are a very important issue. We can speak about it only briefly tonight because we are allowed but 10 minutes in this debate. If something goes wrong in the area of social services it will cause hardship. If the finances go wrong because the Treasurer has made more than normal miscalculations we will have tension and anxiety. But if we make errors in relation to foreign policy it could result in a total national disaster. 
We are discussing the disposition of some $105m to approximately 56 posts all round the world and a dozen major international organisations. Of course, the Department of Foreign Affairs illustrates the very significant way in which Australia stretches out to the world, and the discussion of its operations ought to be more effective than we have been able to have in this House in the last 12 or 18 months. I would rather call this a discussion of international relations than of foreign affairs. I think it was a piece of 18th or 19th century vanity to change the name of the Department to the Department of Foreign Affairs. I would much rather it be the Department of International Relations or some name similar to that. I think we have to go past the stage of talking about the world as being foreign. I believe that Australia's stance in relation to foreign affairs has been disastrous. Australia has presented an image or a picture to the world of being totally irresponsible in international affairs. It has had no attitude of its own and most policies it has adopted have been completely imitative. 
Let us take the situation in relation to China. While the rest of the world has gradually been coming around to the view that this very large and significant nation is naturally a part of the community of nations, we have waited for 20 years or more for others to make up our minds. We have been sycophantic. I think that is the best term I can apply to our operations in Vietnam. We did not go there to save the South Vietnamese. We did not go there to stop the hordes from the north. We went there because we wanted to keep in good with our American allies. We are stricken with an inferiority complex, and the Minister has expressed this at international conferences. We seem to be still inflicted with the last tremors of the cold war. Of course, we ought to be in the business of initiating matters for ourselves. 
It is true that no matter what the size of a nation is it still can be significant in the world at large. Switzerland is a significant country in the world, even though it is not a member of the United Nations, because of the relationships that it has managed to establish. Australia is a nation of some significance. We have a position in this part of the world which is of great importance to our neighbours. We should be initiating matters with our neighbours in the islands of the Pacific, such as the British Solomons, Fiji, Tonga, the Cook Islands and all the rest of them. To them we are the metropolitan power. We have to be something rather than the big brother over there. We can take the initiative in this area. Of course, the same applies to our relationship with Indonesia and South East Asia. Therefore all that one can hope for in a debate like this is that one sows the seeds of thought amongst the people listening. Obviously the Minister is not listening and I hope that somebody will bring these matters to his notice. 
It is the Minister to whom I wish to refer at this stage. I am a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. This morning I asked the Minister whether he had consulted, discussed with or mentioned to the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, particularly the  Chairman,  his proposal to go to Indonesia and make the arrangements in relation to territorial waters. I understand that he did not even pay the Committee the simple courtesy of saying that this waa on. The other night a very large and important document on aid was presented to the Parliament and, as I undestand it, the  Chairman  of our Committee, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  - he is also  Chairman  of our sub-committee on aid - did not even know it was on or about. What was the Minister's answer this morning? The assumption was that the Parliament had nothing to do with foreign affairs at all. The Labor Party did not join the Foreign Affairs Committee for many years because we regarded it as a private ministerial study circle. 
I want to express my despair at the way in which the Minister has operated ?s far as this Committee is concerned. The Parliament ought not to tolerate the continuance of is lowly subordinate function. It is totally a ministerial committee. It is provided that the Committee and its Subcommittee shall sit in camera and their proceedings shall be in secret unless the Minister at the request of the Committee otherwise directs. We have had open hearings over the last four or five months. It is further provided that the Committee may communicate with the Minister but all communications with him and the fact of any such communication shall be confidential to the Committee and to the Minister. This Committee is a part of the Parliament. If there is anything that ought to be out in the open it is foreign affairs or international relations. What is so secret about it? I suppose that when you are negotiating, as happened in Djakarta over the past few days, on the details of a draft agreement or something of that sort that it is a confidential matter and any public discussion on it perhaps would inhibit arrival at a result. But what is so secret about the situation in China, Tibet, Peru or anywhere else? If there is anything which ought to be public knowledge it is matters associated with foreign affairs. 
I regard the Minister's approach to the Committee as being discourteous and discouraging to the Parliament. Restrictions have been imposed upon us in regard to matters on which we should have been able to make our own decisions. For instance, we had a South Pacific sub-committee. It was suggested that it would perhaps be worth while to visit some of the areas but of course that would be a waste of public money, I suppose. VIP jets can fly around this country at a great rate. They can roar across to the Cocos Islands and everywhere else but humble members of this Parliament who want to consider these matters are to be excluded from such things. I believe it is time that the Parliament took control of foreign affairs and that the Foreign Affairs Committee became a parliamentary statutory committee of the same sort as the Public Works Committee and that we had continuing debates in this place about it. The discussion on aid to which I referred earlier will not come back for discussion in this House, and that is a matter to which we have to give very serious consideration. I happen to support the views that have been expressed - that we ought to be expanding our aid - but the House itself has to become involved in the way in which this is done. The sum total of experience in this House is likely to be as valuable in this matter as the sum total of experience in departments Or anywhere else. So tonight one can only express some sort of faint hope that the Parliament will become involved in these matters. 
I hope that our relationships with Papua New Guinea will not come into the scope of foreign relations and that we will not create a barrier between Papua New Guinea and Australia which is based upon the view of one or the other is a foreigner. We live in a world in which barriers have fallen down between France and Germany. Surely we are not going to build barriers here. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I too wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. The honourable member for Mallee misrepresented me too. During the course of his oration he said I would raise objections to factories in my electorate being moved out. He might recall that in the debate on the Commonwealth Clothing Factory, which was moved into my electorate, I suggested that it should not be moved there. The last thing we want to do is to crowd more people into my electorate. I can understand them coming there; they want good representation in this place. 1 have never tried to operate in the way the honourable member has suggested. 
I just record my formal, emphatic and continuing dissent. This motion involves the abandonment of the Grievance Debate. There is a growing mystique that there are countless other opportunities for honourable members to speak in this House. Occasionally, certain honourable members are given leave to speak, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  was just given leave to speak. But, almost invariably when an honourable member from the back benches on this side of the House wishes to speak on a special occasion about some matter, he is refused leave. I believe that grievance debates are a very important function of this Parliament. They are debates in which we can raise in this House, at a time when it is on the air, those matters which from time to time have to be shelved because no appropriate business is before the House in which to raise them. I hope that eventually the Parliament will get round to considered, organised procedures which will allow honourable members consistently to place before the Parliament points of view which need to be raised. 
It may well be that we should reduce the time for each speech. Maybe every week at a regular hour some time could be provided during the ordinary proceedings of the House when perhaps 12 five-minute speeches could be. made. I believe that we all have been remiss in this. We on this side and Government supporters have too often surrendered the proper procedures of the Parliament when it came to the consideration of matters. For instance - I am one of the guilty parties - a week or so ago a repatriation Bill was passed through this House quickly for all sorts of emotional and psychological reasons. It was not until a few days later that it was realised that the Bill deprived some of the beneficiaries under the legislation of some of the advantages they had before. I believe that the procedures which have been developed over the centuries, whilst they look haphazard and inexplicable on occasions, in fact are one of the proper protections of public debate. I want to make sure that my continuing oppo sition to the surrender of the Grievance Debate is recorded, even though I did not wish to speak this morning. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is part of the strange alchemy of politics that there were some points in the 10-minute speech of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  with which 1 am in agreement. But where does it get us? The honourable member for Isaacs said that we should have reorganisation. Perhaps there is a proposal for reorganisation at the moment, somewhere in the pigeonholes. In the 16 or 17 years that 1 have been in this Parliament we have always been going to have a defence reorganisation. It is a sort of permanent 'Blue Hills' or 'Bellbird' of the Government in the field of defence. Yet we never seem to produce a rational approach to it. 
One of the most serious differences between our parties, of course, is in the points of view on where Australia's defence frontiers lie. I do not suppose the defence frontiers lie anywhere, but defence responsibilities certainly lie somewhere. The modern world which has changed a great deal from that into which the honourable member for Isaacs and I were born - he was bom a little later than I, but he seems to have started 100 years back - is such a totally different world that we never seem to get round to making a re-evaluation of what it is all about. I took to heart the remarks of the honourable member for Isaacs about officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs being incapable of handling intelligence. I do not know whether those remarks will be very well received over on the ridges opposite. 
It is part of the misfortune of this Parliament that we do not really get round to an effective open discussion on these questions. This afternoon we are discussing the defence estimates and we have a few minutes each. I want to speak about several aspects, principally concerning the Army and the Citizen Military Forces. First of all, I refer to the question of national service. I believe that this is the most immoral act the nation has carried out for many days. I have 3 elements of criticism on this issue. Firstly, there is the sheer administrative cynicism of the ballot. The marbles are rolled around in a barrel and somebody goes along and, with a proper fanfare of trumpets, searchlights, television and so on, draws out birth dates of those who are to spend 18 months of their lives in the Army because we have not been able to entice other people to do so. It may well be that we have not enticed other people to do so because the Service is poor. There may be all sorts of discouragements to joining the Service. People may not see any need for it. Countless other factors may be involved. 
I regard the ballot system as an unworthy administrative gimmick. I think that the principle is morally indefensible. We have a community of 13 million people that says: 'We want 12,000 people for the Services.' That is about one in every thousand or about 0.1 per cent. So, how do we get them? We do not know exactly why we want that particular number, but that is challenge the authenticity of the argument behind it. So, in a community in which there are something like 2 million men of military age, we pick out those 12,000 and we send them off to become members of the Services. I believe that it is militarily irrelevant. I do not have much time this afternoon to discuss in what ways thin is irrelevant. 
What on earth would 9 battalions of infantry be doing this afternoon? I was at a debate in this town the other day and a young man stood up after the debate and said: 'I will tell you what they are doing this afternoon,  Mr Bryant.  After a national serviceman has done his initial training and he has gone off to his unit, he picks up papers, he cleans his boots, he cleans the car and he polishes the door knobs'. I believe that it is a total waste of human time to use it in this way. I cannot see any possible justification for the retention of the national service system in the light of the present strategic situation. 
What are the defence questions? First of all, honourable members opposite may say that we are under threat of invasion. This has been part of the Australian mystique, syndrome or neurosis ever since the year dot. That is why we have Fort Denison in Sydney Harbour, is it not? It was to keep somebody out - the Russians or the Americans, or both - a century ago. We are always adopting this attitude. It is part of the challenge at election time. Honourable members opposite will say: 'Remember 1942'. The Japanese were going to come down then. Now we cannot invite the Japanese here often enough or quick enough. Of course, there is no threat from 
Japan and nobody says that there is. So, what are we attempting to do with our defence system? One may say, then, that an invasion is out. I have not heard even the most militaristic characters, even the members of the Democratic Labor Party or the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  suggesting that there is an immediate threat of hordes descending upon us in the middle of the night. 
Of course, we might have treaty obligaations, and this seems to be the burden of the remarks of honourable members opposite. They say: 'The Australian Labor Party says that we are going to stay at the frontiers of Australia'. The only alternative to that is that we are not going to stay at the frontiers of Australia and that we are going to send more troops or expeditionary forces overseas. Is that what honourable members opposite are saying? They are very careful not to say it aloud. They never say it aloud. The Minister for the Navy has not said that Australia must have 9 battalions of infantry ready to be hurled ashore in Vietnam, Thailand, Monaco or somewhere else. One of my colleagues has informed me that Monaco has just purchased a gunboat. What are we up for? At present it is obviously just not on to raise an Australian expeditionary force in the foreseeable future for any major conflict or any sort of conflict. It may well be that we should have done better by our United Nations obligations. 
It is my belief that if there is a threat - I do not believe that there is - the major challenge to us is the scientific one of finding submerged submarines. This has nothing to do with national service or any of the other things in which we are engaged. A case might be made for the procurement of one of these destroyers to establish whether a certain procedure should be adopted, but it seems to me to be a very expensive method. I believe that the real challenge is the intellectual, scientific one of being able to find submerged submarines. We should be turning all our intellectual and scientific capacity to that task. Honourable members opposite cannot convince me that that would cost $1,300m. 
What are our resources? They are almost limitless in many regards. We have manpower. Australia has a population of 13 million people, a couple of million of whom are of military age. We have industrial strength. 1 think that Australia is the ninth or tenth largest industrial power in the world. We have great administrative capacity that even 23 years of this Government has not been able to destroy. We have a remarkable civilian potential and a basically homogeneous community and we have neighbours who actually have no aggressive capacity whatsoever. If they have, would somebody tell me? One only has to read 'All the World's Aircraft', Jane's Fighting Ships' and the strategic institute surveys to see that there is not a pint of aggressive capacity within 3,000 miles of Australia's snores. Therefore, on the whole question of defence we should he turning our minds to ensuring that we obtain our money's worth and that every serviceman who serves receives first class equipment, training and protection in his Service life and in his domestic life. We should then establish what are the ways of achieving this goal. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity this afternoon, after the next couple of speakers, to complete my remarks in relation to the citizen forces of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force. Of course, the Navy and the Air Force are simply support troops for the proper Service, the Army. I made that remark for the benefit of those people who are devoted to those other Services. I have listened carefully to the debates in this place. I have heard the remarks of honourable members opposite. They talk continuously about the Army and its 40,000 men. That is about the strength of the regular forces. But what about the other 29,000 or 30,000 men who are in the citizen forces? Not only are they the Cinderellas of the forces; they are almost written out of the book as well. They hardly rate a mention in the Defence Report 1972'. They are never mentioned in debate. The Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  is at the table and he may be able to tell us more about the citizen forces. I have a schedule which sets out the units and so on of the citizen forces. I notice that my time has nearly run out. In chapter 2 of this afternoon's deliberations I may be able to convince honourable members opposite that the proper and appropriate way to expand the defence forces of Australia is to give real attention, expansion and care to (he citizen forces of all 3 Services. 
Just what does this motion mean? Does it mean that Appropriation Bill (No. 2) will be passed through the House straight away? 
I do not care whether it is normal practice. It is also normal to treat people with some respect and courtesy in this place. Today I wanted to speak for a second time on the estimates for the Department of Defence and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  gagged me while I was in the process of speaking. We devoted only 2 hours 38 minutes to the Defence estimates. This evening we were discussing the operations of the Department administered by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  The opportunities to put on record some of those things which ought to be said are becoming fewer and fewer. I just do not believe that this is the way in which this place should operate. At this hour of the night it is all right to talk about co-operation between people in this place, but if co-operation simply means the facilitating of the operations of the majority in this House to the detriment of those on the back bench on this side of the House, I am against it. I know that several members on this side of the House wanted to speak on the estimates for the Department of Works. My colleague the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  wanted to say something on those estimates. He has been engaged on the affairs of this House in his capacity as  Deputy Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the estimates for the Department of Works have been passed without his knowledge. Honourable members opposite might call that co-operation; I call it in general sharp practice. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No.  2) 1972-73  Second Reading 
Consideration resumed from 15 August (vide page 139), on motion by  Mr Snedden: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Third Reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  read a third time. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the statement by the New Guinean Chief Minister,  Mr Michael  Somare, in which he said that his national coalition Government was well aware of the uncertainty felt by many expatriate officers and was concerned at the delays in finalising the revised employment security scheme for permanent overseas officers? Has the Prime Minister yet received the report commissioned from  Mr Simpson  on 3rd August this year, and will he expedite the Government's decision on this matter as it is causing very great concern to the staff in Papua New Guinea and, probably, a great loss to the future staff of an independent Papua New Guinea particularly, as I understand it, in the area of teaching services? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the  question  be  now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I rise on a point of order. For whatever it is worth, I want to record that I am shocked by the behaviour of both sides. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
-I want to pass a few remarks about one aspect of the Advance to the Treasurer and in doing so make a comment about the magnitude of Australian government operations and the tremendous burden that falls on a Minister at the level of the Treasurer who has to disburse these funds though, I presume, not solely on his own decision but subject to the approval of that mysterious empire, the Treasury. It is important that some machinery be established to enable Parliament to make a proper scrutiny of these appropriations so that everybody associated with government may know how ubiquitous the Treasury official and the Treasury edict are. I want to refer to the citizen forces. There is a minute amount shownas having been appropriated for the Citizen Air Force. One of the pities of the last few years has been the way the Citizen Air Force, the Citizen Military Forces and the Citizen Naval Force have been more or less written out of the defence system. This is an area in which the country could make a great advance towards fulfilling its defence needs economically. 
The particular reference to the Citizen Air Force involves the small amount of $5,546 but nobody can tell what that was for. Nobody would worry unduly what it was spent on. Some years ago the Citizen Air Force was grounded. I do not know whether any members of it fly any more but my understanding is that none of them do. This brings me to a discussion of the citizen forces in general and their relationship to the defence forces.Ibelieve that there should be another department, particularly in respect of the Army, to enable the citizen defence forces to develop into a corps of their own. While it is true that in respect of the naval forces there has been a long tradition of having a reserve of serving sailors in themerchant marine being serving sailors inthe Navy. People who were interested in the Citizen Naval Force managed to get into it, but generally speaking the Citizen Naval Force is fairly small. The Citizen Air Force is small. However, the Citizen Military Forces are a very important element of the Australian defence forces. 
One of the serious errors in our defence planning of the last few years and particularly in the year under review has been the failure to appreciate what citizens can do in their amateur part time wayas part of the defence forces. One has only toexamine what happens in other parts of the world or what has happened on occasions in Australia to see the great human resources that areleft lying idle because we refuse to recognise this fact. In the United States of America, for instance, the citizen air force, the National Air 
Guard, flies jet aud transport aircraft and was used to fly to and from Vietnam and did so just as effectively as anybody else. They run armoured forces. In Australia until about 1960 the citizen forces operated equipment such as Centurion tanks but they do very little of it any more. In the Navy there has been a move back to naval personnel of the reserve handling craft on their own account and I hope that in our defence planning we are coming to realise that the tremendous resources of the community that are available in both manpower and industrial reserves should be integrated with the Services. I did not believe originally, but I do now having studied it over the years, that we have made a serious error in the complete integration of the regular and the citizen forces. This is not to say that there should be a first class and a second class citizenry in the Army but the fact is that this integration reduces the general clement of self-reliance in the Citizen Military Forces. 
Because a citizen operates in these forces on a part time basis and has a special relationship to the community, and because he is in such a totally different position to the regular servicemen, he needs to be treated differently. It is my belief that the citizen forces are the great reservoir of recruitment for the armed forces which has been ignored. In discussions in this place, whether at question time or during debates on defence, reference is made to the Army having so many men. But it is just the regular servicemen who are counted. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
Mas bis attention been drawn to reports in the student press to the effect that he had written to the Vice-Chancellor of the Flinders University of South Australia seeking details of the means for which Student Representative Council moneys are applied, and referring to the fact that the original source of much student money is through compulsory fees paid by governments and statutory authorities. 
If so, (a) will he elaborate on the purpose of his approach and state whether similar letters have been forwarded to the Vice-Chancellors of other universities and (b) does the administration of legislation concerning universities give him a right to take action which could be construed as an interference with the autonomy of those institutions, or sub-sections of those institutions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the (a) name, (b) appointment held at time of award, (c) project for which award was made and (d) duration of award of each person who was awarded a World Health Organization Fellowship through the Department of Health during the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What are the infant mortality rates of the Aboriginal communities living on the South Coast of New South Wales. 
In particular what are the numbers of Aboriginal infants involved and the mortality rates recorded in the hospital records of the towns of Bega and Nowra. 
Has a survey shown that infant mortality rates of Aboriginal children in these areas is much higher than for the general Australian community. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How are the estimates of those liable to register for National Service arrived at. 
How are the names for the 10,000 checks carried out annually by his Department compiled. 
In the case of those persons who refuse to comply with the requirements of the National Service Act, what is the maximum time that his Department allows to elapse between (a) the date that a person fails to register during the proper period and the date that he is summonsed for failing to register, (b) the date that he is convicted for failure to register, and therefore deemed to be registered, and the date that he is issued with a notice to attend a medical examination, (c) the date that he fails to attend for the medical examination and the date on which he is issued with  a  summons for failure to attend the medical examination, (d) the date that he is convicted for failure to attend the medical examination and the date that he is issued with a call-up notice and (e) the date that he fails to attend for induction and the date that he is issued with a summons and/or sought for arrest under section 8a of the Crimes Act for failure to comply with the call-up notice. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. There has been a slight demarcation dispute, one might say, in relation to procedure in this matter. I am working on the assumption that most of the members of this Parliament can read, even those in the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. 
It does not matter what it is. It is a statement of fact - a statement of procedure. I believe it is time that the Parliament took a very close look not only at some of its procedures but also at some of the matters before it. I circulate a statement of activities over the last  2i  months and a statement of the amounts of money that have been allocated under this Bill. This Bill is a short one. It is a simple statement giving notice of intent to add to the States' expenditures the sum of $7.5m. That amount is about 50 per cent more than was granted by the previous Government for a whole year. I will now outline the Government's reasons for doing that. 
I believe that the situation in which the Aboriginal people of Australia find themselves is a national disgrace. One per cent or a little more of the Australian population is of Aboriginal ancestry. Perhaps 50 per cent of them are people who are almost totally of Aboriginal ancestry. The other 50 per cent are Aborigines clearly defined amongst themselves, whose attitudes are clearly expressed and who are clearly accepted by their own Aboriginal community. I do not believe it is possible for a civilised country to allow the situation m which they find themselves to continue. In the first instance they are faced with a great deal of social depression. We all know of Aboriginal families who are satisfactorily housed, satisfactorily placed and satisfactorily employed in the community. They are the models to whom we can all look. But on the other hand, almost 90 per cent of the Aboriginal community is living in a state of absolute, acute social depression which a wealthy country such as ours should not tolerate any longer. This Government does not propose to allow that situation to continue any longer than is humanly possible. It has launched an attack upon all the problems which face the Aboriginal people. 
Let me refer first of all to the housing situation. Nobody knows at this moment how many houses are needed to rehouse adequately the Aboriginal people of Australia. At the last census the Aboriginal affairs committee of my party made some effort to have the census conducted in such a way that we would be able to find out. This was impossible. But one could guess that if there are 25,000 to 30,000 Aboriginal families in Australia, some 20,000 of them are inadequately housed. In most cases it is not housing at all. The same situation applies in education. Only a handful of the Aboriginal people are receiving tertiary education. Only a handful of them have reached the top classes in secondary schools. This is a terrible waste of human talent. There is no evidence to suggest that the Aboriginal people have not the same intellectual capacity as anybody else in the community. We have not resolved the question of how to make sure that they are able to proceed through our education system or even how to make the education system adequate for them, but the Government proposes to launch an all out attack upon this problem. 
If a large number of people in Australia are unemployed it will be found that many of them are Aborigines living in Aboriginal communities. In some areas of Australia 90 per cent of the Aboriginal community is never in full employment. Those people are the victims of every cold, chill wind that blows: So the Government is opening a program of employment, through municipalities and other authorities, to overcome that problem. One of the most serious matters for which there, is no possible justification is . what one might . call administrative discrimination. If one drives to an Aboriginal reserve anywhere in Australia one will notice that the municipal authority has stopped making the road half a mile from the reserve and that the Post Office has not bothered to take a telephone to these people. Even in very large Aboriginal communities such as those in central Australia or in Torres Strait there is a totally inadequate postal service. I do not believe that this is justified. No Australians with any sense of the equality of humanity would believe it was justified. 
I suggest to my colleagues on both sides of the House that the next time they go to the Northern Territory they should take a look at the Alice Springs airport to start with. It has been designed for the average traveller, with green lawns, a swimming pool and first class buildings. Then honourable members should take a trip to the closest Aboriginal reserve, wherever it is, and compare the standards. During my recent trips to the centre of Australia I visited some of these places and I asked the people who were with me: 'Is this place on the same continent and under the same control of the government that is building Canberra?' My Government will launch an attack on that kind of discrimination. 
To the Aboriginal people land is the ultimate desire and requirement. They have a feeling about land which is not understood by most of us, although when one considers how closely the Australian people are applying themselves to the preservation of their environment one can get some understanding of it. So the Government is going to take steps to protect the interests of the Aboriginal people in the land of Australia. 
One of the most devastating areas of neglect - it could be called a disaster area - is that of health. Throughout Australia we have not attempted to produce for the Aboriginal communities the same health services as we produce for the rest of the community. Australia is a community that places great stress upon health services. We are one of the communities which lowered the infant mortality rate to about 20 deaths per thousand births almost SO years ago. Yet throughout large areas of Australia - in central Australia, northern Australia and Western Australia - the infant mortality rate is amongst the highest in the world. But health is not concerned only with infant mortality. It is not concerned just with health services as such. We have now to apply ourselves to this area with the same vigour as we do to many other areas of social aspiration. 
The Government, of course, accepts the fact that it has a direct responsibility for every Australian. I know that my colleagues opposite and State authorities will call out about centralism, bureaucratic control and so on. But it is not that. The referendum of 1967, in our view, gave the Australian Government absolute and unchallenged constitutional authority to deal with the Aboriginal people as it should, and directly at that. There is no need for us to allow for any intermediate administrative authority to prevent the carrying out of our programs. We accept that responsibility. Fortunately, throughout Australia, there are authorities which carry out their responsibilities with a proper sense of the needs of the Aboriginal people, but of course in many areas they cannot. State authorities will say that they cannot do so because they do not have the wherewithall. In other areas, nobody has found the social answers. But we propose to deal directly with the Aboriginal people where neces sary. We accept the direct and full responsibility for the people themselves. For instance, the Queensland Government has neglected education for many years. It seems to me that it has neglected education more deliberately amongst Aboriginal communities than amongst communities elsewhere. So we have made direct grants to the Queensland Government for the purpose of building schools. I just cannot understand why we should have to do this. But wherever there is a need - even if it is somebody else's responsibility - this Government will still accept the responsibility because it does not believe that constitutional requirements should stand between people and their direct and human needs. 
While I am speaking about Queensland, I hope that members of this Parliament will take some care to read the communiques from the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea about- the situation in the Torres Strait Islands. This is not the moment to debate this matter or to talk about, it but the Premier of Queensland has been .totally misleading in this situation. 
The honourable member for Kooyong interjects to ask a question about letters that I have written on the matter. I suggest that the honourable member should do what I suggested everybody else should do, namely, that he should read the communique issued by  Mr' Somare  and our own Prime Minister. 
The Premier pf Queensland has been totally misleading and mischievous in the way that he has handled this matter. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  in support of the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill I tabled figures and other information. I failed to ask for leave for them to be incorporated in Hansard. I now do that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I thank the House. 
The case raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  I think demonstrates the great examination of the whole of repatriation system for so many years and the inadequacy of this Parliament's approach to the entire matter. We all have to accept some responsibility I suppose, but our predecessors in office have been the principal villains over the last 23 years at least. So far as I am concerned, when a person puts on a military uniform he accepts an absolute and unqualified commitment to the community. It may well be that people serve their time in barracks somewhere and they do not sail anywhere. But they are on call 24 hours a day for the term of their service. I believe that we should have adopted the approach which is now before us in regard to the whole repatriation system over the years. The question of demarcation, of where one served and when one served ought not to enter into a consideration of the matter when one is injured while a member of the Services. We did arrange for some changes in the Act for people who were committed to Vietnam. But it is still sad that people sent to such places as Butterworth, as in the case mentioned by the honourable member for Prospect, are excluded from the benefits of the Act. Probably the keynote of all such debates as this is the constant search by the Parliament on behalf of the community to find an answer to the question of what we do for people who took on service in the military forces in time of war and have suffered thereby. 
The Schedule of the Act shows, I think, there there have been some 40 to 44 amendments to the Act over the 50-odd years since the Act was introduced. This demonstrates our constant search for means to improve the legislation. None of us on this side of the House are going to say that we have reached perfection on this measure. The legislation before us is a small step along the road to solving some of the problems that have always been there. I find that the most intriguing incident in the last few days in this Parliament is the speech of the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  the former Minister for Repatriation. For 3 years those of us who served were the beneficiaries of his benevolence, and we can see what sort of benevolence it was. I thought the 2nd December was a great day of liberation for the people of Australia, and indeed it was. After hearing the honourable member's speech today I believe that that date is even more significant for the repatriation beneficiaries than I had dreamed it was in the first place. The honourable member talked about the cost of repatriation benefits. He quoted figures. I did not jot them down.  His  arithmetic is probably fairly accurate. I think he said that the cost of raising the TPI pension to the limit that we have set ourselves or to the objective we have set ourselves would amount to $14m. He seemed to imply that this was a running financial scandal - about the cost of one F111 aircraft without the fuel to fly it. He mentioned the sum of$64m as another extravagance. 
One wonders at times what comes over people opposite when they get round to such pettifogging nonsense in debates of this nature. We are discussing the end product - as far as humanity is concerned - of national exercises which cost prodigious sums in treasure, in money and in human suffering. In times of war we give no consideration whatsoever to what the cost will be. In times of peace that ought to be the consideration society gives to those who suffered for it. I believe that the speech of the honourable member for Indi demonstrated a total incapacity to understand what the social objectives of a modern democratic society were. 
There was one irrelevancy to which he referred and I should reply to it as one of those people to whom, I suppose, be was referring. I hope the House will forgive me for replying to his irrelevancy and therefore running the risk of myself becoming irrelevant in this debate. The honourable member referred to security clearances for members of ministerial staffs. What on earth is all that about? I have never heard such utter drivel and nonsense in the 17 years I have been in this place. Who is clearing them for what? Nobody ever asked anybody who put on his infantryman's uniform during the last war for a security clearance. Nobody will ask anybody on my staff for a security clearance either. I live in a country in which there has never been a traitor, in which basically loyalty is a part of the whole social structure. 1 believe it is a continuing insult to the whole community to suggest that any group of people needs security clearances. By whom is the clearing to be done? Before anybody would get my consent to do this I would want to run the rule over the clearers - 
Look, we accept you as the honourable member for Ballaarat without let or hindrance. We run no rule over you and it is quite obvious that neither do the people of the electorate of Ballaarat. If it is good enough for this Parliament it is good enough for the rest of us. We have to take people on face value, as I do the honourable member for Ballaarat. It is my deep regret that the people with the spirit of Eureka are represented by such a conservative, reactionary character in this place. But he is  a  lovable character. As a socialist, of course, I love everybody although a lot of people need a good deal of correction. 
This debate on repatriation benefits is another symbol of parliamentary search to give justice to the people who have served this country in war. None of those on this side of the House will say that the pension rate at $51.10 is adequate. It is still pretty poor recompense to a person who has been incapacitated for life. Many of these folk, of course, are now old. It is true that you may well be able to write articles in the newspapers and say: 'But look at all the fringe benefits'. But look at what life may well have been like for them if they had never served. I recall the particularly poignant situation of the young men who have been totally incapacitated in Vietnam. They were conscripted into a war which most of them did not want to attend. They had their lives destroyed in a cause which could not be defended and having been conscripted into a lifetime of poverty they are finally going to live on these rather meagre allowances. I believe that we should continue this search to give justice to them. We will have to try to find more adequate recompense in these situations. 
The objective of those on this side of the House is to raise the standard of living of those who live on community benefits to the standard that they would otherwise have had. We do not believe that there is any question of cost associated with this whatsoever. We have to adjust the rest of the community's standard of living, taxation schedules and so on to meet it and that is why we are dealing with this legislation today. I have a deep sympathy for all those people who have suffered, including the soldiers' widows and the soldiers' children. 
I rose this afternoon simply to place on record the continuing interest of those on this side of the .House in the whole matter of repatriation, though for the time being parlia.mentary duties place our interests otherwise. But there are still a few areas which we have to tackle. I believe that we have to do something about the tribunal procedures. My friend the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  who is the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country, and myself have participated in innumerable debates in this place on this subject. I think we can give the House our guarantee that the whole system of repatria tion will be reviewed in the light of our past experience and the things that we have said in the past, but that will not happen overnight. I believe that the present repatriation procedures, designed as they have been to produce justice and administrative competence, have perhaps become concerned more with admin'istrative competence than with actual justice. 
Another matter to be looked at is continued medical research. I raise in this House this afternoon the situation in which the people who have served in previous wars now find themselves. If honourable members turn to the schedules on war pensions set out in the report of the Repatriation Department and examine the number of people who have received pensions, at various times and compare those who have served in each of the wars in the last 10 or 15 years, they .will see that the closer We get to the present point in time the more chance an ex-serviceman has of obtaining satisfactory repatriation benefits. I turn in particular to those who served in the First World War. That war was. a tremendous assault on humanity. Anybody who served is entitled to some consideration. I believe we have given them meagre consideration in almost half a century or more since they first: served. If honourable members turn to the schedules they will find, I think, that the situation as it is outlined statistically proves that the later the war the more substantial are the repatriation benefits; To take figures from this report, we see that in 1945, 27 years after the First World War there were 70,000 incapacitated servicemen on pensions. But the First World War was disastrous in casualties. There were 58,000 killed and 254,000 wounded. In other words, the actual battle casualties numbered over 300,000. Yet 27. years, after the war some 70,000 had pensions. 
Let us look at the figures for the Second World War, the one in which many members of this House participated. Twenty-seven years after that war- that was last year  -  183,000 were on pensions of one sort or another. The total number of casualties in that war were 181,000. In other words there were more people receiving pensions than the actual number of battle casualties, during the Second World War if we exclude those who were killed in action. As a result of the Korean War there were 3,400 incapacitated servicemen receiving pensions in 1971-72. In that war according to the figures in this report there were 303 killed and 1,240 wounded which is a ratio of almost 3 to 1. Coming to the Vietnam war, there were 492 killed but we now have 4,800-odd in receipt of incapacity pensions, which is a ratio of about 10 to 1. I do not begrudge that at all. I believe that is probably the way it ought to go. 
I hope that we will get round very shortly in the repatriation system to a close examination of those who served in the First and Second World Wars. I believe we ought to take a sample of people, say an infantry battalion, and run the rule over them as far as their medical condition is concerned and find out whether there is any significant difference between their current health and that of the rest of the community. All those people who write articles in the newspapers and books entitled 'Be In It, Mate' may say: 'Ah but there is no significant difference statistically'. But of course when the ex-servicemen enlisted there was a substantial difference statistically because the people who went into, say, the infantry battalions had to be absolutely physically fit and much fitter than the rest of the community. I find amongst those people with whom I served a substantial and distressing number dying in their late forties and early fifties, at an age at which I believe they possibly would not be dying if they had not served. I have no medical evidence to support this. I hope that the Department of Repatriation will get round to some examination of that. 
Another matter which we ought to get round to dealing with is an examination of the medical system of the Repatriation Department with a view to ascertaining whether the hospitals under its control could be widened in their scope to accept more people from the community. This would probably be an advantage to the medical service and to the Department itself. But I for one will do my best to preserve the integrity of the Department as a body which provides a social service to a particular group of people in this community no matter what assaults are carried out upon it by those who happen to make some money out of books or those who are dissatisfied because a neighbour down the road seems to be receiving a benefit to which they themselves are not entitled. 
In accordance with Government policy all reports of this nature will be issued. I have the report before me and I am studying it to ensure thatno persons are named in it in such a way that they would be damaged by the issue of the report. In my personal view this is an attitude that one would expect to be adopted. The Scott report was commissioned in 1969 and it showed a high infant mortality rate and a high death rate among Aboriginal children under 4 years of age. It was only a small statistical sample, but the report does indicate a desperate situation as far as health is concerned. My Department and the Department of Health are examining the matter to see what further steps should be taken. We believe that there has been an improvement in the situation. We will take steps to find out the exact position. I will arrange for the report to.be made available so that honourable members may peruse it. It will be a matter for  Mr Speaker  whether the forms of the House, the Library or some other methods are used for this purpose.I do not believe a report of this nature warrants the expense of printing in large numbers. It will be available to the honourable member immediately after question time if he wishes to have a look at it. 
 It is exhilarating to see what 3 months in opposition can do to people who for 23 years in government did nothing. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  is to be congratulated for starting to remove the last relic of discriminatory legislation from Commonwealth laws. I am very pleased to have heard tonight the new found sentiments of liberality and conscience from the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch).  I think the record shows that prior to his election to this House the honourable member did take a strong stand against racial discrimination. The fact is that in its initial actions this new Government has been able to introduce legislation to remove provisions that have been in Commonwealth legislation for a long time. We hope that we will have the full support of the Aboriginal people for the programs that we are developing at the present time for them. 
I will refer to one or two matters which the honourable member raised in his speech. I will deal first with the Aboriginal Consultative Council which has been convened in Canberra to discuss future consultative operations of the Aboriginal people. The honourable member raised the question of the actual structure of this Council. Seventy-seven people from around Australia were invited to take part in a conference held in Canberra. They are designing the electoral representative system which is the real charter of the conference. In the near future they will design a structure to establish a really representative institution to advise the Minister. It is hoped that they will have some executive authority and perhaps ultimately, when we have established the system and the principle, they will have some statutory authority as well. 
The provisions of this piece of legislation are brief. We are here this evening to record our pleasure at the fact that this problem is being dealt with. When I say that it deals with the last relic of discrimination in Commonwealth legislation, I remind honourable members of the long haul it has been to remove all the discriminatory legislation in Australia. When the campaign was begun 16 years or 17 years ago to give the Aboriginal people of Australia in the eyes of the law a free and equal place in society a whole pattern of discriminatory legislation existed. As my colleague, the honourable member for Flinders, pointed out, a great proportion of this discriminatory legislation was not based upon discrimination on racial grounds originally, but was part of the protective mantle which it was believed necessary to place around the Aboriginal people. Fortunately we have shed that paternalistic attitude. 
The Social Services Act of 12 or 13 years ago discriminated against the Aboriginal people. We had a long campaign before free and equal voting rights were obtained for Aboriginal people, and the Queensland Government was the last to surrender on that account. The ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory which discriminated against Aboriginal people lingered until a few years ago. Discriminatory clauses were contained in health Acts of the various States and in the Post and Telegraph Act of this Parliament. The Constitution itself restricted the role of this Parliament concerning Aborigines; we have now removed that discrimination. However, there are still lingering areas of what I call administrative discrimination. I refer to the way in which the law is applied. It is true, as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition pointed out, that it is not much good passing laws unless the application of the law is free and equal. 
It is my concern - and, I believe, the concern of all people who have studied this matter - that in fact the Aboriginal people may well be equal before the law but not necessar ily equal before the law courts. Wherever one turns in Australia, one will find that Aborigines are more likely to be punished for the sins to which all humanity seems to be heir. I tabled a report earlier today concerning the Aboriginal people on the south coast of New South Wales. It showed that between 1st April 1964 and 31st March 1969. at Jervis Bay 16 Aboriginal people had been charged with drunkenness and found guilty, but no non-Aboriginal people were convicted of similar offences. I would like to think that the non-Aboriginal community of Australia was totally dedicated to sobriety. But I doubt that. This state of affairs can only occur because some form of discrimination, not necessarily conscious in the administration of the law in the courts but in the way the police operate and in the way the community accepts its duties in these matters, affects Aboriginal people more than it affects nonAboriginal people. This situation must be challenged. 
It is true that the legal system, established initially by the previous Government and now to be developed further by the present Government, is aimed at removing that kind of discrimination. I think the honourable member for Flinders is a little astray in assuming that the last discriminatory legislation has been removed from the statute books. I only hope that he sends an autographed copy of his speech to my friend, the Premier of Queensland. The recent legislation in Queensland retains discriminatory clauses to which the Aboriginal and the island people of Queensland fall victim. The old Queensland Act was very restrictive and controlled people, property, movement, marriage and things of that nature. The new Act which was passed in 1971, but gazetted recently, transferred the control over the funds and property of Aboriginals and island people to the existing legislation. That measure is still retained. 
Last weekend I had contact with people whose finances were being handled by the Queensland Government. Child endowment was being paid through official channels rather than directly to the mother. Of course, the situation on Aboriginal reserves removes a great deal of freedom from the Aboriginal people. There is still this challenge to be removed before we can say that the Aboriginal people are free and equal in the same sense as the non-Aboriginal people are. I congratulate my friend, the Minister for Immigration, for this action. He is a very good Minister for Immigration. Politically and administratively - I do not say personally because I do not use that sort of criterion in this place - he is a big improvement on his predecessor. 
It is an occasion in these troublesome times to find that honourable members opposite are in complete agreement with this proposal. As the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  pointed out, this is a relatively small piece of legislation but there is an important principle embodied in it. For many years there has been conducted a campaign that those people who are entitled to Australian pensions should be able to draw them wherever they are living. As far as repatriation pensions are concerned, it has always been a part of the principle that they are absolutely inalienable and therefore the ordinary repatriation pension has for a good many years been payable irrespective of the country of residence of the beneficiary. We are now proposing to transfer this right to those people who happen to be in receipt of Service pensions. Therefore we are accepting the general principle applied under the Repatriation Act for all other repatriation beneficiaries. 
But it seems to me that on an occasion such as this - and we discussed this question under the latest Social Services Bill too - that there are several important principles involved. My own view is that once an Australian always an Australian. The fact that a person is born in this country ought to give him some entitlement no matter where he goes, no matter what he does, no matter how long he is away from this country and that ought to be part of the general acceptance of our citizenship and rights. Therefore those rights which flow to a person while he is resi dent in this country ought in ordinary circumstances apply when he is away from this country. 
We are approaching more rapidly to a state of what one might call one world when the barriers between humanity are falling down; people travel more, they live more freely in other parts of the world and they are away from home for longer periods. I think this is another important principle. I do not suppose that the proposal in this legislation will cost all that much. How many repatriation beneficiaries in this category are absent from Australia for such a length of time that they would need to draw their pensions overseas is unknown. It might be only a handful. I dp not believe that this Parliament should ever abdicate its responsibility to legislate because there are only a few beneficiaries but in this instance I believe that there is an important principle involved and I am glad that we have been able to bring forward some legislation at this stage with which honourable members opposite are in complete agreement. I hope that when we turn our attention more fully, to the repatriation system and approach it with a much more liberal minded attitude than has been the case in the past, we really will give the system a thoroughly modernised program and get such unqualified support from our friends opposite. 
It is still progressing 
I do not propose to delay the House for very long, but today is about the 15th anniversary of the day when I raised in this House a matter of public importance calling for the Commonwealth to start to take a real interest in education. I recall that on that occasion the matter received what might be called patronising commentary from those members who were then on this side of the House, those who are now in permanent Opposition. So on this occasion I want to congratulate my colleague, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  for the measures that he has introduced. 
There are one or two matters which have been adverted to this afternoon in the debate on this legislation to which I should like to refer. First of all there is the question of needy students. I think it is time that the community faced the fact that when people come to the tertiary student stage some kind of regular financial assistance should be available to them based not on the need of their parents or the wealth of their parents. In other words I believe, and I think the community in the long run will have to face this, as it has with say teacher trainees, that students whose parents are wealthy ought not have to depend on their charity and that students whose parents are poor should not have to depend on the charity of a government. At this stage students ought to be treated as people as such with a role in the community as important as that of anybody in the work force. The provision of assistance to all students would be a pretty severe financial burden. It may not yet be the time for us to do that. But the expansion of support for students is, I think, a very important contribution to equality of opportunity in a community such as ours. I think this is probably the most important subject we are talking about this afternoon. We are simply salvaging some of the situations that were created by the previous Government's parsimony to colleges of advanced education in relation to libraries and facilities such as that. The provision of these facilities is what one would expect to be happening with a progressive government such as we now have in office. 
I think that the amendment presumes that this assistance will have to continue for a long while and that the system will not be changed. There will be a radical change in the way in which the Commonwealth faces its responsibility in education within the next 12 months. Fees will be abolished, and I think that is a very important step. I know that such a move comes in for criticism because many people who have enough to pay the feees now are therefore advantaged. But I think there are very few people in the community in their early twenties for whom the payment of university fees is not a heavy financial burden. I do not completely go along with my colleague opposite - I think it was the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  - on the question of academic excellence. Tertiary education should be the logical prolongation of one's education. As the world continues there will be less demand for people to be in the work force and more demand for opportunities for them to develop their intellect and their cultural level. In the next 12 months we will be making a substantial improvement in that situation. Therefore I am pleased on this occasion to be speaking fromthe Government side on the acceptance by the Commonwealth of a real responsibility in education. It has been a long time coming, but we now have a government which accepts no constitutional inhibitions and which will place our rights and duties to the citizenry of Australia before any theology, including State rights or constitutional precedence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government is concerned to ensure that the Aboriginal and Islander people of Queensland themselves obtain title to the land set aside as reserves in Queensland. Any proposal that the Commonwealth take over these reserves would be directed only towards this end. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as fellows:  (1-3) The components of 25 houses were delivered to the Ngukurr community in 1972; the autonomous Housing Association at Ngukurr has erected 5 of these and has substantially progressed with the erection of a further 5. The remaining 15, to be erected as part of the Government housing program, have suffered some damage and deterioration since delivery. The delays in the erection of these houses have arisen from adverse weather conditions and a shortage of tradesmen and equipment. 
The Housing Association's building supervisor has recently resigned and the Association, with the assistance of my Department, is recruiting  a  replacement. Owing to delays in the delivery of materials, caused by unfavourable weather, contractors at present at Ngukurr have been unable to proceed with the construction of the new rural health centre and are assisting the Association with supervision. The target date for completion of the Housing Association program is the end of June. 
There is an urgent need to proceed with the construction of the remaining 15 houses and my Department is negotiating with the Housing Association on a price for their erection. If necessary, to achieve an early start on building, my Department will post  a  works supervisor to Ngukurr. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The term 'tribe' is generally used in relation to Australian Aboriginals to denote a group of people sharing a common language and customs and occupying a definite tract of territory. But in many areas much smaller 'clan' groups each have distinct languages or dialects and 'tribes' do not exist. Virtually every Aboriginal community in the Northern Territory today includes speakers of more than one language or dialect, though in many one language group predominates. 
Two main language or tribal groups are represented at Yuendumu and 4 al Bamyili. 
There is no reason to suppose that the granting of land rights to the Aboriginals will have any marked effect on Aboriginal choices as to place of residence. For some years many groups have shown keen interest in setting up communities away from the main reserve townships and in the traditional lands of the groups concerned. The initiative of such groups will be supported as far as is practicable. In making inquiries into the manner in which land rights should be granted the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission will be consulting closely and carefully the needs and wishes of the Aboriginals concerned. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
The Government has announced that it will honour its undertaking to grant to the Aboriginals ownership of land in Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory and has appointed a Commission to inquire into and report on arrangements to give effect to this policy. The effect of existing Government commitments is one of the matters upon which the Commission will report. 
The Government will ensure that sufficient funds and technical advice are available to enable Aboriginals to develop the Yugul cattle project and other similar enterprises on reserves. 
An initial grant of $336,000 has been made to the Yugul Cattle Co. 
The answer to the honourable m ember's question is as follows: 
On Reserves approximately 14,400, (b) Outside Reserves approximately 7,900. 
&amp; (3) Yes. The boundaries of Reserves do not follow traditional boundaries between groups. Information on the numbers involved in the 2 situations is not readily available, but this is one of the matters into which the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission is inquiring. 
 The following reply assumes that part  (2)  of the question relates only to Aboriginal applicants: 
61 applications for Exploration Licences over areas on Northern Territory Reserves have been received from Aboriginals and are being held, along with other applications, pending the outcome of the inquiries of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission. 
3 applications have been made by Aboriginals for Exploration Licences outside Reserves; 2 have been granted and one is under consideration. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) The Government intends to take up the long standing offer of Lord Vestey to surrender position of the existing Wave Hill lease in order that the Aboriginals of Daguragu (Wattie Creek) may establish a viable cattle property. The size of this area is yet to be determined and it is not yet known whether areas from adjoining leases would be needed. 
These matters are the subject of a study being made by expert consultants, who will also prepare proposals for a development program and estimatees of likely Income. Decisions relating to the provision of land for the Gurindji will be taken in the light of the report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 31st December 1972 there were approximately 7,550 Aborigines living in communities conducted by Church Missions in the Northern Territory. 
Approximately $442 in 1971-72. 
Government aid to mission communities in the current financial year provides for: 
operational subsidies in relation to 
specialised staff engaged on approved programs for Aboriginal advancement; 
premiums for workers compensation insurance; 
training allowances for Aboriginals; 
special assistance to individual Aboriginals whose regular income is insufficient to enable them to provide adequately for themselves and their families; 
approved educational programs; 
capital grants in respect of approved capital works programs, including the construction of school and medical facilities where these are not provided direct by the Government. 
The cost per capita of programs at Governmentmanaged communities is approximately $613 compared with $442 for mission communities. This figure excludes salaries of public servants and other administrative expenses which cannot be isolated within the global votes for these items. 
Aborigines' Petition to the United Nations (Question  No. 221) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The petition to the United Nations, in addition to allegations of genocide, contained a number of criticisms of the Government policies and programs referring to the high infant mortality rate among Aboriginals particularly in Central Australia; housing conditions for Aboriginals throughout Australia; the policies affecting Aboriginal education at that time; and the need for anti-discrimination legislation in Australia. 
The Government has pledged itself to substantially reduce the infant mortality rate among Aboriginals as a matter of highest priority; it is reviewing housing assistance schemes implemented by the previous Government, with a view to increasing the effectiveness of Aboriginal housing programs; the Government has already decided to use Aboriginal languages as a medium of education in schools, wherever this is practicable, and a program of public information, with special emphasis on the provision of suitable materials for schools, is being developed. The Government also accepts the need for anti-discrimination legislation and will introduce such legislation as soon as possible. 
The petition also requested payment of $6 billion to enable Aboriginals to achieve economic parity with other Australian citizens, and associated this claim with a claim for land rights. The Government has acknowledged Aboriginal rights to land on reserves in the Northern Territory and has appointed the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission to inquire into means of implementing its policy. 
I will be looking in particular to the National Aborigines Consultative Council, when it becomes fully operative, to advise me on further action which might be taken in relation to the matters referred to in the petition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The former Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts approved in principle the recommendations in the report and indicated that the Government would provide funds for their implementation. 
The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies has undertaken responsibility for the implementation and administration of a national site recording program. The convenor of the Seminar,  Mr Robert  Edwards, has been appointed to a newly created position of  Deputy  Principal to ensure that the recommendations are implemented without delay. 
A National Committee for Sites of Significance has been formed by the Institute, including nominees of the State and Northern Territory relics authorities and Aboriginal representation. 
The committee is responsible for the overall planning of the program including examination of applications for site recording projects, establishment of priorities and general supervision of field projects. 
Grants have been made already to the State relics authorities in South Australia, Western Australia and New South Wales to enable them to commence recording programs immediately. Six researchers, including one Aboriginal, are going into the field on site recording projects. Aboriginals will be involved as consultants wherever work is carried out and in many instances,they will be employed on a full time basis to participate in the recording, conservation and preservation of sites associated with their heritage. 
A grant has been made to the Western Australian authorities to support special studies on the development of techniques to prevent the deterioration of Aboriginal monuments in Australia. 
In respect of mining as it affects the conservation of Aboriginal sites, executive members of the Institute have met with representatives of the Mining Industry Council with the objective of overcoming the problems associated with mining and the conservation of Aboriginal monuments, antiquities and sites. Further discussions with the Council will be held to formulate plans for special site recording projects in areas where mineral exploration and development are concentrated. 
I move: 
That a Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs be appointed to inquire into and report on matters referred to it by resolution of the House, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or by motion of the committee within the following terms: 
to consult with Aboriginal and Island people on policies and programs for their advancement; 
to examine the present situation of Aboriginal and Island people, recommend policies for improvements; and 
evaluate the effect of policies and programs on 
Aboriginal and Island people. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their cooperation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of 9 members, 5 to be nominated by the Prime Minister, 3 to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
That every nomination of a member of the committte be forthwith notified in writing to the sneaker. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power lo appoint subcommittees consisting of 3 or more of its members, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That 5 members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of a subcommittee constitute a quorum of that subcommittee. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess or adjournment. 
Thai the committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and have power, wilh the approval of the  Speaker,  to appoint persons with specialist knowledge for the purposes of the committee. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the committee shall be empowered to confer with a similar committee of the Senate. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
This motion is in line with the Australian Labor Party's policy understanding that it would establish a Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. We hope that the Committee will be an effective instrument for contacting the Aboriginal people and making their voice heard. The resolution makes ample provision for the Committee to work on its own motion or to carry out investigations as requested by the House or by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. As far as I and my Party are concerned, the establishment of this Committee is part of the mobilisation of parliamentary talents of which there is a very large quantity in this House. I hope that the Aboriginal people will derive great advantage from the deliberations of the Committee. 
I am aware that the honourable member visited the area recently. I have received quite a number of protestations from people in the area about the neglect by the Victorian Government of its duties to the people in the district. One of the difficulties one faces is that the Victorian Government does not come forward and say that it needs help in this area. It also has inflicted upon the people an attitude towards Aboriginal self-help which is, in fact, a piece of ideology. In other words, the Victorian Government leaves the people very much to themselves. I am arranging for a study of the area to see whether we can establish some medical service of the type which is now operating in Sydney. I shall discuss the matter with my colleague, the Minister for Health. I shall also discuss it with the appropiate Minister in Victoria to see whether we can, by some cooperation, establish a full time, thoroughgoing medical service for the people in the district. 
 One of the inflictions of gaining the front bench is that one's colleagues think that one should not take as much part in debates as one did formerly. On this occasion I follow the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  more by chance than by choice. In his speech he said that the Government must not be a pace setter. Of course, a problem from which Australia suffered for 23 years was that it was led by a group of foot dragging Ministers who, like Micawber, waited for something else to turn up so that they could follow that lead. This Government was returned on 2 December with the wholehearted support of the Australian people for innumerable policies right across the board. In the area under my own administration there are matters that require urgent and immediate attention. With due respect to the Leader of the Opposition 1 admit that at present many decisions have to be of an ad hoc nature. I shall explain why presently. 
The right honourable gentleman spent most of his time talking about inflation, and well he might. He was its principal architect. For years he was one of the directors of the Australian economy and of Australia's policy making. Who is he to stand in this House and condemn anybody for what has happened in the last 6 months? At least the Government has overcome the problem of unemployment which is the most dreaded spectre in the Australian or any other community. The Government recognises that the question of controlling prices is a problem that has confronted humanity and governments for a long time. We recognise that every policy one pursues is likely to create pressures in some direction and these pressures will have to be handled. We recognise also, as I think did the right honourable gentleman himself, that no government has been able to control inflation properly unless it has inflicted upon the community controls which the community ultimately would want to reject. 
Evident in the right honourable gentleman's speech was his obvious dissatisfaction with every program the Government is pursuing. He is against everything the Government has set out to do. Obviously he opposes the increases in social security payments during the last few months. He says that this has created inflationary pressures. He says that any expenditure of public money will ordinarily do so. He opposes our programs related to city living. From his speech it would appear that the creation of new departments is a threat to Australia's future. He does not like taxation reform and the way the Government is pursuing it, but he pursued this subject some 12 months or so ago. Obviously he is against the policy of creating more housing opportunities for people. He does not like our health policies. It gave me some pleasure to see the dreadful gloom that come over the faces of honourable members opposite when they thought that the taxation structures were to be changed. Now the Leader of the Opposition is one of the latest recruits to economic planning. We welcome him to the ranks. I only wish he had adopted such an attitude in the recent past. 
I respect the research undertaken by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  but I suggest that he should direct his attention to the recently returned heroes in Victoria, the members of the Hamer Government. They are the villains of the piece. They are allowing the matters to which he referred to proceed in the way they are proceeding. I only hope we can get more co-operation out of them in respect of a matter that I shall now raise. Before lunch the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  raised the question of the health of the Aboriginal people in Gippsland. Gippsland is one of the wealthiest parts  of 
Australia, and Australia is probably one of the world's wealthiest countries. It is depressing that at this time people in such an environment should be suffering a deprivation of health services. But this is the case with Aboriginal people. The honourable member for Casey and some members of my staff went to Gippsland a week or so back and he has told me about that visit. All honourable members who read newspapers and receive letters from that area are aware of the situation. Unfortunately I have not been able to visit the area recently but members of my Department have done so. A really depressing aspect of this matter is the difficulty of getting immediate action in situations such as that which applies there. 1 hope that in the near future we will be able to create administrative systems that will overcome the disabilities imposed by constitutional precedents and so on. 
We have raised this matter with the Victorian Department of Health. This week officers of my Department are visiting the area.  Dr Langsford,  who is the Director of Aboriginal Health hi the Commonwealth Department of Health, will go there next week. He has already had' discussions with the Victorian Department of Health. We have asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to take up directly with the Premier of Victoria the general question of co-operation in this area. I rose this afternoon simply to place that on the record. As soon as the matter was raised with me by the honourable member for Casey, I had conversations with my colleague, the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham).  We did try to take action- 
The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has been in touch with me. The honourable member for Casey and other members of the House have taken the opportunity to place before me the difficulties of the Aboriginal people in their areas. Earlier in the year I wrote to all members of Parliament. Many of them have no Aboriginal people in their districts. I received a pretty universal and satisfactory response. I assure honourable members who are concerned about it that anything they wrote to me is confidential between them, me, any of my immediate staff who had to read it and those from whom we gathered the material. I can see no solution to the question in East Gippsland, unless we are able to open a full time medical service particularly for the Aboriginal people, such as is operating at present in Sydney and Brisbane. 
We have sought co-operation from the States. We have sent our officers down there. We are doing our best to achieve co-operation, but co-operation does not seem to be anywhere in the dictionary of political terms of the Victorian Government at the moment. 
They deny it exists. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On 22 February, I said that I would be speaking directly to industry leaders on the question of employment of more Aboriginals in private industry and I expect to put specific proposals to industry leaders shortly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Northern Territory representatives at the first meeting of the National Aboriginal Consultative Council were selected from among prominent Northern Territory Aboriginals, including members of the Northern Territory Aboriginal Advisory Council, in consultation with my Department, certain Aboriginal communities and the Northern Territory Aboriginal Advisory Council. 
Pursuant to Section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964-1966, I present the report of the council of the Institute for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with the Institute's financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wentworth)  adjourned. 
by leave - For the information of honourable members, I table the first report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission. I should like to thank the Commissioner for the work that he has done and the steps that have been taken to launch us upon a very important and complicated project - the establishment of the land rights of the Aboriginal people of . Australia. The report was made public on 3 August and copies were sent to all honourable members and senators. Because of its importance, it was decided to make the report available immediately. I take this first opportunity to table the report in the Parliament. I should like to inform honourable members that the Government has considered the report and the Commission's recommendations and has authorised me to convene meetings of the 2 proposed Aboriginal land rights councils in the Northern Territory as soon as possible. We will proceed immediately with the preparation of draft legislation for the incorporation of Aboriginal communities and groups without waiting for the Commission's final report, which is not expected to be available for another year or so. To assist each of the land councils, the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has been authorised to retain senior and junior counsel and firms of solicitors or arrange for the councils to employ individual solicitors. The cost of this is to be met by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
There is some significance in this report being placed before the House in the year 1973. It was 10 years ago that we started to campaign about Aboriginal land rights for the people of Yirrkala. It has been a long haul, but I am pretty confident now that the community in general, this Parliament in particular and certainly the Government accept that the Aboriginal people of Australia are entitled in an inalienable way to an absolute right to a certain proportion of the Australian territory. I believe this is a landmark in Aboriginal affairs. I hope that in the ensuing debate, which we will arrange as soon as possible, all honourable members who have something to say about this subject will take the opportunity to do so. I present the following paper: 
Aboriginal Land Rights Commission - Ministerial Statement, 22 August 1973. and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a second  time. 
In the platform adopted by the Labor Party at Launceston some years ago undertakings were given that in accordance with the new powers acquired by the Australian Government as a result of the 1967 referendum Labor would assume the ultimate responsibility for Aboriginals and establish a Ministry of Aboriginal Affairs with offices in each State 'to give the Commonwealth a genuine presence in the States'. I remind the House of how overwhelming was the vote in that referendum. I think the total vote for yes in Australia overall was 89 per cent and in Victoria it was 93 per cent. The Government has moved to establish a genuine Commonwealth presence in the States. The Government implemented portion of this platform when on 19 December last it established the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The Bill I am introducing today is a step towards implementation of further aspects. 
The Bill is aimed at expressing briefly the Australian Government's new responsibilities and in particular at facilitating the transfers of State officers to the Australian Public Service. The State departments responsible for Aboriginal affairs have since the referendum received an increasingly large part of thenfunds from Commonwealth grants. In 1972- 73 they received some $22m out of a total direct expenditure by the States of approximately $34m. During 1973-74 it is intended that they will receive of the order of $31m from the Australian Government out of their total anticipated expenditure of some $43m. The State departments channel a substantial proportion of these funds through other State departments in areas such as health, education and housing. Clearly the present system involves much duplication of effort as between the Australian and State authorities and leads to some confusion on the part of Aboriginal Australians as to whom they should approach for particular services. The interim National Aboriginal Consultative Committee which I established earlier this year has expressed a clear desire that responsibility for Aboriginal affairs be transferred from the State governments to the Australian Government, and this request has been endorsed by numbers of regional meetings throughout Australia subsequently convened by the NACC. The NACC sent delegations to call on the Premiers or other senior Ministers of all States to make known to them the Aboriginal desire. 
The responsibility which the Australian Government seeks in the States is responsibility for policy planning and co-ordination. In some States this is the limit of the function exercised by the various State Departments of Aboriginal Affairs. The Australian Government does not seek the transfer from the States of particular responsibilities in the fields of health, housing, education and other functional areas, which in its view should preferably be carried out by the appropriate Australian or State departments having responsibility in these areas, partly on the basis of the continued provision of funds by the Australian Government. In those States where the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs are already performing the limited function I have described, the transfer of function and of the State officers who at present perform that function can be relatively simple. Such States include Western Australia, South Australia and New South Wales. In some other States it will be necessary for us to work out with the State authorities the best means of proceeding. 
The Prime Minister has been in touch with each State Premier, and I with each State Minister responsible for Aboriginal affairs. In addition, Australian Government and State government officers in a number of States have had extensive discussions about the possibility and modalities of a transfer of functions and officers. In some States there has been ready agreement to the possibility of transfer of the function and the appropriate officers. Our conversations with all States are continuing. I hope that some transfers can occur before the end of this year. The present legislation does not constitute any form of compulsion. The Bill is purely an enabling one to facilitate transfer of the State officers where this is agreed between the Australian and State governments. The Bill would allow the Governor-General to enter into an arrangement with a State Governor regarding Aboriginal affairs which could provide for the transfer of State officers to the Australian Public Service; for officers of the Australian Public Service to accept appointment and to perform functions under State laws relating to Aboriginal affairs; and for the Australian Government to assume responsibilities of a State relating to Aboriginal affairs. 
To enable State government employees engaged in Aboriginal affairs to be absorbed into the Australian Public Service, the Bill provides for such persons to be offered appointment or employment in the Australian Public Service. The Bill is drafted to ensure that a person who so elected would not suffer disadvantage. For example, he would be guaranteed at least the same remuneration as he would have got had he remained in the State service. Similarly, his prior service in the State service would; for example in respect of sick leave and furlough, be reckoned as service in the Australian Public Service. He would also carry over any accrued recreation leave. The matter of superannuation fund contribution and membership will be dealt with in a Superannuation Bill to be introduced later this session. Honourable members will note the similarity between this Bill and the Statistics (Arrangements with the States) Act 1956-1958 which provided the machinery whereby State statistical services were integrated with those of the Australian Government. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Negotiations between the Australian Government and the State governments are carried out in the belief that people may be persuaded rather than coerced. We have had friendly discussions with all of the States. We have come to arrangements with South Australia, New South Wales and Western Australia. Due to the complexity of these matters, arrangements still have to be finalised. In the first instance, there were personal negotiations with Western Australia. Those negotiations were followed by direct letters between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Premier of Western Australia. I wrote letters to the other 5 States. I seek leave to have those letters incorporated in Hansard so that honourable members will know exactly the terms and the atmosphere in which the negotiations are taking place. 
 I second the motion. I agree with the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that it is time to make a decision on this matter. Five or six years ago we had some lengthy, fruitful and, one might say, enjoyable debates on this subject. 
I believe that it was the first time any parliament actually considered its own structure and its own working place in such a thorough way. What we have to do now is pick up the bits of that which resulted from a decision by the Executive of the time because there was disagreement between or a different decision reached by the 2 Houses. When the right honourable the member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was Prime Minister he agreed that the decisions to be made about the new permanent parliament house - its size and its site - would be a matter for parliamentarians, free from any party considerations. He made a good contribution to the way the Parliament works and to the possibility of a good decision being reached. However, when we arrived at a situation where the House of Representatives had made one decision and the Senate had made another, the Executive made the decision. I think that was quite wrong. At that stage we should have come to some sort of agreement about a joint sitting of both Houses or a counting of votes. We should have proceeded on that basis because the Parliament is simply a collection of 185 individuals. 
The motion is important. First, it brings to light the immediacy - it does not necessarily commit us to either site or any consideration of sites- of having a joint sitting with the Senate to decide the matter. This House is not in a position to decide the site now. A large number of new members in this Parliament have not had all the facts placed before them, have not had the matter raised with them and have not considered it in the way it was originally considered. We originally arrived at various decisions but a great deal of consideration went into them. There were long series of debates, a committee was appointed and it presented reports. Today we should encourage our new members to examine the matter thoroughly. Therefore, I hope we will vote for the motion no matter what amendments may be forthcoming. The necessity for decision is apparent to everyone. This parliamentary building is outmoded and inadequate. This is a situation in which most parliaments of the world find themselves. It was part of my duty a few years ago to travel the world to look at parliament houses. Nearly every parliament house was inadequate in site, space and in design. Parliament is a different institution from any other. It needs to be designed around the life of parliament and parliamentarians. It is not a job for other people, except when they are called in to consider the brief. I do not believe, for instance, that we ought to bother about financial considerations. I think they are secondary. In this instance we will be building forever. The Parliaments of Westminster and elsewhere have been used for centuries. When we make a decision we will not alter it. In 20 years or 50 years time it will be no good saying that we were a bit short of loose change back in 1973  -  and, of course, we are not. Therefore, I believe we should make the decision on the merits of the case. That is the important situation. I do not believe that the idea of a staged development with separate buildings being based upon this one will work. 
One of the inadequate features of many of the Parliaments I looked at was the isolation of members in their working place from the chambers in which the Parliament itself assembled. One of the great disadvantages of this building in some ways is the long distance to various parts of it for those who must work in it. For instance, when I first became a member of this Parliament my office was over on the far side of the Senate. I rarely used that room because it was too far from where the action was and I do not believe that we will find any solution to the problem of members' accommodation or anything of that sort by putting up a separate building anywhere else and having members use that for part of their duties. 
I have looked at the situation around the world. In Kuala Lumpur, as far as 1 could tell when I looked at it, the tower block was hardly used. I saw the situation in Bonn and the extraordinary difficulties which were created in Washington, and so on. So, what we must do is make a decision on the completed edifice. There is no reason why in Australia we ought not to do that.- We are speaking about the most significant representative institution in this country. I believe it is one of the most significant representative institutions in the world because of the very structure of our system which is basically democratic and representative of all the citizens and yet which stands in a community which is generally concerned with Presidents, royalties and everybody else. It is one of the features of our system that the Parliament is becoming increasingly significant as a national symbol. Back in the days of Burley Griffin, early in the design of Canberra, a national symbol and the Parliament were thought of as one and the same whereas, I think, if we look at Burley Griffin's reports, we will see that he spoke of having a national symbol on Capital Hill and the Parliament on Camp Hill, or something of that nature. 
The Parliament has increasingly become the symbol of the national aspiration of our government. When people visit Washington they go to look at the White House but they visit the Congress. It is the same in London. They look at Buckingham Palace but they visit the Houses of Parliament. So, we are speaking about a matter of some national significance. I do not think that this is a decision which ought to be made today but I believe that Capital Hill is the logical, central place for the site of Parliament House. There arc charms associated with the other sites. It is one of Australia's great good fortunes - or perhaps it is our misfortune - to have an embarrassment of choice. Most parts of the world would be happy to have any one of the 3 sites under consideration - the lakeside, Camp Hill or Capital Hill. 
But let us take a look at the situation here. I am convinced that accessibility and space available are the 2 most important factors in any major public building. Capital Hill sits inside 2 roads. I think that the inner one was an error but that does not necessarily circumscribe the employment of the site. Inside the inner ring road, I believe, there is an area of 85 acres or thereabouts and inside State Circle, there are about 130 acres or thereabouts. On Camp Hill, the area is much less, The figures escape me at the moment but it is occupied by a couple of other buildings. But on the question of accessibility, every road in this town leads to the Capital Hill area and this is going to bc fundamental to the visiting of the building - and there are going to be countless thousands of people visiting it. Millions of people pour into Washington every year and one must consider this as one of the fundamental aspects of the issue. If we built it anywhere else, we would bc stymied on that count. 
I believe there are such matters as parking to be considered. It is easier to put a parking area under a hill than to dig into the ground around it. One of the worst features of Canberra at the moment are the great areas of shining motor car tops on sheets of asphalt in the parking places around the National Library, the Administrative Building, the Treasury and so on and it seems to me that Capital Hill in this instance offers all the advantages that one needs. I think that aesthetically and in every other way it has great advantages. 
One of the considerations that must be taken into account is what happens to the present building. There are those who say that it is inadequate, that it is old, that it is too much trouble to keep and that it ought to be knocked down. I am not one of those and I do not believe that the country would get round to knocking it down. I agree with the comments of, I think, the late Robin Boyd when he said that this building had a charm and a unique and simple character about it. It also has a great deal of internal capacity to be used. But at the moment I believe that is a minor consideration. One of the points that was put to us on the Standing Committee years ago was that, if we put the new parliament house in the centre of Camp Hill, we would develop a controlled environment. 
I should think that my political opponents - I had better keep politics out of this - would talk about control. But in fact, Australia is not a controlled environment; this country is one of the limitless environments. 1 believe that that is a very important philosophical consideration. It is not a question of putting Parliament House on a hill. We can build buildings as high as we like, but the central point of Canberra's design and planning is on the Capital Hill area. The central place in Canberra is Parliament House. Shift Parliament House and Canberra becomes just another large country town. Therefore, I believe that first of all wc should take the step that this matter be thoroughly considered by the Parliament, that it be considered immediately and that we discuss it in consultation with the Senate so that when we have the decision it will be no good those of us who have taken one view or the other complaining about the decision. That is not the way it goes. We are all equal on this. 
The decision we make should be a final one. The nation is going to expand and the demands of the Parliament are going to expand. During the course of the last 7 or 8 years and certainly since I entered this Parliament the demands of the institution have increased so much that space is going to be extraordinarily important. We are speaking about a building which is to be twice the size of the National Library. I think the National Library is about 450,000 square feet and the Parliament House as specified in the report that we drew up would be close to one million square feet. I do not know how we will work out the costs of this; I do not know that it is significant. The National Library cost about S8m. But one of the singular features of Australian public life has been the incapacity of public authorities to take the long range, permanent view and that is what we must do in this situation. We have to plan for all time and I do not think that there should be any other consideration whatsoever but what is the best building in the best place. That will be determined only when this Parliament - and, largely, it has a new membership - turns its mind to the subject collectively and as thoroughly as possible. 
Therefore, today, I think we should be grateful to the honourable member for Corio for initiating this debate and to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  for the thoughts he circulated on this matter. But there are other thoughts that need to be circulated, apart from those that were compiled in his document. We cannot adopt expedients. We have to go for the real thing. Therefore, today, I hope that this House will vote for the motion and that we will take up the question in a thoroughgoing way. This is the kind of Parliament which must set standards in its aesthetics, its location and its style. My examination of the situation shows that no parliament house so far anywhere has been actually built to be a parliamentary building. Kuala Lumpur was designed by an architect. It looks good on a postcard but it is not all that good as a parliamentary building. 
It is better than this one in some functions but most of the members are much further from the chamber than we are in this building. I am one of those who thinks that the consideration of the relationship between the chambers and the members' space is the fundamental question of the internal design. The report that we brought down, of course, simply sets out the necessary space. I do not know whether it is adequate for members as of now. Of course, the same situation applies in Delhi. The building looks good but it is inadequate. We find that in Ottawa they have run into the same problems and that even in Washington, where they had about 130 acres set aside, they are finding that space inadequate. Somewhere in the archives in my office I can find all the information, all the cables and telegrams and so on relating to the vigorous competition that we had in a friendly way about this situation some years ago. 
I hope that we adopt in the first instance the motion that is before the House and that we proceed to get all the information necessary so that every member of this Parliament, new ones and old ones, can do a re-think. I am confident that, no matter where we put it, it will be the most significant public building in Australia, but I am confident from my own experience and all the study I have done on the matter that there ought to be no consideration of expedience or finance. We will be building for all time and we should build to standards satisfactory to a modern parliament, setting a standard for other people in its location, its internal arrangements and the way in which it conducts its affairs. This debate, of course, is part of the method of conducting those affairs. 
I visited the Gippsland area at the weekend, and for part of the visit I was accompanied by the honourable member for Gippsland, who is much better as a member of the Opposition than he was as a member of the Government. In the course of my visit I discussed with a large number of Aboriginal people the housing situation in the area. The policy that we are following is this: We will deal with groups of people who wish to take initiatives on their own behalf, and deal with them directly. We will deal with municipalities which wish to take initiatives in their areas, and we will deal with them directly, we will deal with State governments which have programs and projects wherever they are willing to co-operate. We will take whatever steps are necessary to overcome the serious deficiencies in housing and other social needs of the Aboriginal people in the same way as we do in the repatriation system. 
I am doing my best to encourage journalists, commentators and State Ministers to stop using the words like 'by-pass', 'take-over' and so on for this is nothing of the sort. It is a long tradition in this country for the Australian Government to deal directly with people for services for which it is responsible. We do that under the repatriation system. We deal directly with the individuals, we use cooperation with the States and we use other institutions. We do the same thing under the social security legislation. I have written to  Mr Dickie  to try to clarify these questions of the use of English and to make clear to him that the system is principally based upon the assumption that in a democratic society people are entitled to deal directly with the government responsible for the facilities which it supplies to them. 
The answer, after consultation with the Public Service Board is: 
The Public Service Board has advised that statistics of numbers of Aboriginals employed by each Commonwealth department are not available. Applicants for employment in the Commonwealth Service are not required to provide information on racial origin. However, figures from the 1971 Population Census, provided to the Board by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, show that 2,571! persons identified themselves as being Aboriginal and in 'Commonwealth Government employment' as at 30 June 1971. For the purpose of the Census, 'Commonwealth Government employment' includes persons employed in Commonwealth departments under the Public Service Act and Acts other than the Public 
Service Act, together with the Defence Forces, but excludes persons in the above categories employed overseas and persons employed in other Commonwealth bodies such as statutory authorities. The figure of 2,578 should, however, be interpreted with some caution. Firstly, this figure was compiled on the basis of- a Census question which employed, for the first time, the principle of 'self identification' in the definition of 'Aboriginal', Secondly, the Census definition of 'Commonwealth Government employment' precludes direct comparison of the figure of 2,578 with figures for employment in Commonwealth departments under the Public Service Act. Thirdly, the figure includes 1,511 Aboriginals in the Northern Territory identified in the Census as being employed by the Commonwealth Government on welfare services. Information available to the Public Service Board, however, indicates that most of these persons were Aboriginals dwelling on Aboriginal settlements who were in receipt of Training Allowance. As recipients of Training Allowance, they are not considered to be full-time Commonwealth Government employees in the accepted sense of the term. 
No; I said I was considering proposing that every Government Department take a proportion of Aboriginals on its staff and that I thought it would  be fair to set a target of 1 per cent, which is about the proportion of Aboriginals in the community. 
No; I said that I could see no reason why some 'people could not have a career in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs based on their Aboriginality rather than on academic qualifications. 
The Department of Labour has been assisting Aboriginals to obtain employment in Commonwealth departments as part - of that . Department's general efforts to enhance the. employment  prospects  of" Aboriginals. The Public Service Board, has . also examined employment opportunities for- Aboriginals in the Commonwealth Service under the Public ServiceAct. Both bodies have undertaken action in the light of advice from, or in consultation with, my department and its predecessor, the Office of - Aboriginal Affairs. 
The Department, of Labour, which has specialist officers and facilities, to provide employment assistance to Aboriginals,' encourages Aboriginals to join the Commonwealth Service. Through its comprehensive school leaver program the Department ensures that those young Aboriginals who' might be suitable for Commonwealth employment are aware of the wide range of employment opportunities available. Special arrangements are made for them to travel for interviews or to sit for entry examinations. Tb,; Department itself employs Aboriginal officers in this work and is currently seeking new specialist positions which, to the extent possible, will be staffed by Aboriginals. Furthermore, a special training program i? being drawn up to prepare Aboriginals to become Employ.ment Officers. 
Action taken by the Public Service Board has included the following: the appointment in August 1971 of officers, within the office of the Public Service Inspectors in each of the States, as Special Placement Officers, to be responsible for matters involving the recruitment, placement or employment of Aboriginals in the Commonwealth Service; the announcement by the Board ob 20 February, 1973, in a circular to departments of further measures designed to facilitate, within the context of the principle of open competition on merit, the employment of Aboriginals in the Commonwealth Service. These measures included an announcement that greater attention will be paid in recruitment activities to making Aboriginals aware of job opportunities in the Commonwealth Service. The Board further announced that it would liaise with Aboriginal community organisations; liaise with the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs and Labour on job opportunities for, and placement of, Aboriginals; consult with relevant departments on work force entry training schemes; examine selection tests and procedures to ensure equal opportunities for Aboriginals; and undertake a study to identify positions in respect of which an Aboriginal background could be a significant factor in the efficient performance of the duties concerned. In addition, the Board requested departments to review the form, content and placement of their recruitment publicity to increase the awareness of Aboriginals of the job vacancies for which they are eligible, and to ensure that induction training schemes take account of the diversity of the background of new entrants. (5) The numbers of Aboriginals and Torres Strait 
Islanders enumerated at the census 30 June, 1971, were as follows: 
As at 31 December 1972 there were 355,331 fulltime civilian employees of Commonwealth Government bodies,, including employees' in Commonwealth Departments in Australia and overseas employed under the Public' Service Act and Acts other than the Public Service Act, and employees of other Commonwealth bodies such as statutory authorities. One per cent of this figure would be 3,553. 
The answer is: 
and (2) No decision has yet been made on the establishment of a national centre or its location. The National Aboriginal Consultative Council has recommended that a national centre for Aboriginals be established in Canberra to serve both social and cultural purposes, and provide a venue for Aboriginal conventions. 
Aboriginal organisations consulted to date include, apart from the -National Aboriginal Consultative Council itself, the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, the Aborigines Advancement Council of Western Australia, the Aboriginal Cultural Centre, Adelaide, and the Aboriginal Advancement League, Victoria. 
The Department of the Northern Territory has been consulted on the question and the reply is: 
The Minister for the Interior in the McMahon Government approved that 110 leases of land be granted to Aboriginals and Aboriginal groups. Fortyone approvals were processed to the stage where applicants accepted lease offers. 
(a) Leases approved during the McMahon Government: 
Yes; two Aboriginals were appointed to the Land Board for each hearing of an application from an Aboriginal or Aboriginal group. The Aboriginal appointees were selected from the community most closely associated with the land under application. 
The criteria applied to determine successful applicants for leases of land in the Northern Territory varied with the type of lease sought. Where a lease was sought on a reserve by an Aboriginal applicant, the criteria adopted were: 
applicants association with the area; 
extent to which the land was to be used; 
applicants experience in handling development of the type proposed; 
availability of finance; 
method of development; and 
wishes expressed by, the Aboriginals. 
In the case of leases on reserves, yes. 
The Government has indicated that the ownership of land on Aboriginal reserves shall be vested in the Aboriginals. It is the primary task of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission, appointed by the Government, to recommend on the manner in which this policy is to be implemented. The decision to stop action on the granting of all leases on reserves, announced by the Deputy Prime Minister on 7 December 1972, was taken in order to avoid further complicating the land tenure situation on  reserves  pending the outcome of the enquiries of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission. 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs: Position of  Mr EL  Giese (Question No. 318)  Mr Calder  asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What work is  Mr Harry  Giese, the former Assistant Administrator (Welfare), engaged in. 
Are his duties appropriate to his classification as a level 2 officer in the Public Service. 
If not, is he being victimised because, during previous administrations, he disagreed with  Dr Coombs  or other members of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. 
Is is suggested that  Mr Giese  failed to implement the policies of previous governments. 
Has a comparative examination been made of (a)  Mr Giese's  recommendations, during those previous administrations, to the Northern Territory Administration in respect of money, staff and works for Aboriginal Affairs, (b) the proposals put forward by the Administration in respect of those recommendations and (c) the budgetary appropriations and staffing provisions arising from these recommendations. 
Has  Mr Giese  been given the opportunity to rebut any insinuations against him in accordance with the requirements of natural justice. 
The answer is: 
Special projects as allocated by the Secretary, Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Yes. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
As no insinuations have been made against  Mr Giese  the matter does not arise. 
The answer is: 
and (2)  Mr Adrian  Parmenter has made certain recommendations to the Government as a result of his recent visit to Australia as a consultant in relation to Aboriginal Affairs.  His  recommendations include one that there should be full Aboriginal representation and participation in both the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission and the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. 
No proposals for the appointment of Aborigines to the Land Rights Commission or to the Council for Aboriginal Affairs are currently under consideration. 
The Land Rights Commission is at present engaged upon a series of visits to and consultations with Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory. It is expected that a first report by the Commissioner will make some recommendations on the manner in which the detailed implementation of the Government's Aboriginal land rights policy should be worked out, taking into account the desirability of full Aboriginal participation in this process. 
The Council is offering valuable advice and assistance but as other organisations, such as the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee and the Standing Committee of the Parliament come into operation, the position will be examined. 
The answer is: 
A purchase price of $325,000 has been agreed to but this will be subject to some variation depending on cattle numbers revealed at a bang-tail muster. 
The official valuation of Willowra in September 1972 as a going concern as determined by the then Department of the Interior was $320,400. 
Properties outside reserves being considered for purchase by Aboriginal communities will all be subject to an independent valuation by private pastoral consultants. In addition valuations as provided by the Lands Branch in the Department of the Northern Territory and similar Departments in the States will also be taken into account. 
Aboriginals: Distribution of Population (Question No. 5521  Mr  Snedden  asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Aboriginals live in (a) the metropolitan area of each of the capital cities and (b) each city of over 50,000 people. 
Which municipalities in (a) each of the capital cities and (b) each city of over 50,000 people. have an Aboriginal population of greater than 100. 
For local government areas only partly included in the capital city urban area, the figures given are for Aborigines in the total LGA. 2 (b) Local government areas with 100 or more Aborigines in urban centres of population 50,000 or more (other than capital city urban areas). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The funds were provided for programs in Aboriginal affairs funded through the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. An amount of $7. 5m was provided for grants to the States for additional programs in the following areas: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Number of leased areas: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) A firm decision has now been taken that the construction of the police station at Yuendumu shall proceed. On my instructions this project was deferred because I wished to be sure that the Aboriginal community at Yuendumu did in fact want resident police facilities. I discussed the subject with the Yuendumu Council which confirmed its wish to have a local police station. For this reason I have agreed to the project. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Total financial assistance given to the Aboriginal Publications Foundation for 'Identity' in 1972-73 was$16,000, which was the amount requested by the Foundation. 
and (4) The Editor of 'Identity' requested that he accompany me on my visit to North Queensland and Alice Springs, from 17-22 January. As his request was received after the passenger lists and itinerary had been drawn up, it was not possible to include him in this visit. I was happy, however, to arrange for  'Mr Newfong  to accompany the Minister for Health on a visit he was making to the Northern Territory at that time but he was unable to accompany the Minister for Health. 
and (6) Since entering the Ministry I have made official visits to every part of the continent except Tasmania with the object of visiting every Aboriginal community. A list of the places visited and the staff and others who accompanied me at various times is available at my office. 
 I am in complete agreement with my colleague from Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  Capital punishment can surely have no place in a civilised society. He placed his case before this House in a most emphatic and persuasive way. However, I speak on this occasion not because I think I can persuade any more people here but because there has been a long campaign in this House and in every Parliament in Australia to have capital punishment abolished. For myself, I have taken a part&gt; in these campaigns- perhaps by question, perhaps by reference, perhaps by persuasion. It is significant that the Australian Labor Party abolished it as far back as 1919. So I suppose that the time for rhetoric has passed, because there is in fact de facto abolition of capital punishment in Australia now. 
This has been achieved because of great social pressures that have been created by parliamentary demands and by the simple facts of the case. It is odd that we should still have to argue so long in the parliaments of Australia to remove the last vestiges of it from the statute books. The preceding speaker mentioned the situation of Australian military crimes and the fact that in the First World War against all the arguments of all the best soldiers on the other side of the world we were able to put armies in the field and maintain them there without the machineguns behind them to keep them steady in the face of fire. That is probably as good an argument about this whole situation as one could produce. 
Of course all sorts of arguments in favour of the death penalty are put forward by people. But I believe that in fact what lies behind us all when we support capital punishment is the simple, terrible human emotion, understandable as it may be, of vengeance. But vengeance has no place in civilised codes of conduct. 
It may well be one of those emotions that we keep to ourselves. We even express it; but there is no place for it to be carried into action. 'Vengeance is mine', saith the Lord; it is not the job of this Parliament. 
Then there is the question of punishment. My office is not far from Pentridge gaol. Every day that I pass it I ponder the fate of those people who are being punished inside. Like everyone else one feels the same emotions about crimes which are committed against persons and property. Somehow we have to stop people from committing the crimes. Somehow they must pay the debt that they have incurred. So we have invented prisons and flogging and execution to try to punish people for their sins against us, against each other and against others. I have grave doubts, the longer I live and the more I pass Pentridge, as to whether we really have the right to punish as such. It is a simple moral question how in which way we should administer punishment? Can we make it fit the crime? Does it achieve anything, and do we have the moral right to punish others? 
Perhaps that is a rather way-out argument in view of the way in which society looks at these things now; but in the world today there is a great movement towards penal reform. I hope that this Parliament will be able to accelerate this trend and play its part in taking a totally different view of the way in which society should treat offenders against its laws. I believe that the present codes of punishment which we inflict upon people are irrelevant and often inhumane. I can think of nothing worse than locking up any person for a long period of time. There must be another way. As has been pointed out so often in these debates, there must also be some way to prevent crimes of violence that result in the death of a person other than by hanging or using any other form of capital punishment. 
Then there is the deterrent argument, which has been canvassed at great length. There is no need for me to bring out the facts and figures this afternoon; they are all recorded in Hansard. I want to deal with the modified approach which has been placed before us in the amendments namely, that there are some crimes for which people ought to be executed. The most vigorous advocacy in support of this point of view is usually related to punishment for treason. To me treason is the last crime for which we ought to punish a person. If a person is disloyal to the community in that he betrays his duties to the community, as people see them, there is something wrong with the values of the community and not with the person. But what right have I or the community as a whole to punish someone because he does not see eye to eye with us on great issues? All through history people with power have exercised it not to keep people patriotic but to keep them loyal to those in power. Even in our country, as tolerant and basically humane and compassionate as it is, in recent years there have been times when if capital punishment had been readily available in the way in which it is in some other countries people in this country would have been charged with treason and perhaps executed for it. However, it is one of the great strengths of this country that nobody has ever been effectively charged with the crime of treason. I personally do not believe there should be any such crime on the statute book. I hold the same values as anyone else in this House. I have the same deep attachment to our country, the community and its values. But I do not believe I have any right to force those values on any other person who does not measure up the way I think he ought to and make him pay the penalty with his life. Therefore I hope that the House will give no longer serious consideration to the retention of capital punishment for the crime of treason. 
Then we come to prison offences. This subject is particularly appropriate. Five or six years ago Ronald Ryan escaped from Pentridge gaol, one Sunday afternoon, I think it was, and in the course of that escape he shot and killed a warder in the street about 50 or 60 yards from my office. It was a dreadful crime, but it was carried out in the heat of the moment. A long campaign was conducted in the public arena, in the courts and through the various channels by which people communicate with governments, to prevent him from being hanged; but he was hanged. The Victorian Government committed what I hope was the last act of such barbarity because a person, in this case Ronald Ryan, shot a prison warder. The man who escaped with Ryan during the course of their escape or a little later committed a much worse and more barbarous act. He shot a man in cold blood to prevent his recapture. However, that man was simply retained in prison. There is so much that is arbitrary, so much that is capricious, about the whole system of judgment in these matters that we cannot have modified use on capital punishment. We either have it or we do not. There is no place on the statue books for it, even in respect of crimes committed by people who are in prison. Fortunately, crimes of that type are rare. My own feelings in this matter have been, fortified by the proximity of my office to the Pentridge prison. It is only a few hundred yards away. Years ago in that prison for some months Tait was under sentence of death. Dozens of people have been under sentence of death since I was elected to the Parliament. There are always some. I think there are some now in the Australian Capital Territory. 
That is right. The system keeps these people in gaol under sentence of death and eventually the Executive Council decides that it will not carry out the sentence in certain cases. In Tait's case it was a long campaign and finally the Government surrendered. It was a pretty sordid exercise; but, in spite of how vicious Tait's crime was, he was saved from that fate. In Ryans case there was even more vigorous public support for the abolition of the death penalty and for the death sentence not to be carried out in his case, but it failed. Ever since I have been bothered by the attitude adopted by the Victorian State Cabinet in that situation. 1 know many of the Cabinet members well. They are people of distinction and compassion. 1 disagree with them politically over most areas. Some of them I have known for half my lifetime. I just cannot understand how they were able to stand by that decision. I think it is one of our duties to remove from the statute book the necessity for Ministers as members of the Executive Council to make that sort of decision. 
We are always concerned with the sanctity of human life. This community places great store upon human life. We have had debates on the question of abortion based on that very issue. I felt that one of the most serious criticisms of the Vietnam participation was the commitment of conscripts to the battlefield with their lives to forfeit. We will not produce any belief in the sanctity of life by killing people. Nearly all the crimes of recent times for which people have been under sentence of death have been committed on the spur of the moment. Nevertheless, there are some dreadful people about and no one knows what to do with them. There are a number in every major prison in Australia. But we will not solve this problem by the continuance of this barbarism. The standards of behaviour in the community, as established by governments and in public life, are the ones which will produce an attitude towards other people's rights and lives. Of course, there is always the argument that perhaps the innocent are punished. Occasionally this is so. Occasionally it is discovered years afterwards that the person who was punished was innocent. There is a dreadful record, as revealed in the book placed before us by my colleague, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  It contains a list of people executed in Britain over a period of five or six years from 1949 onwards. Many of them were young, most of them were men and most of them were executed for crimes of passion. In some cases there seemed to be plenty of evidence that at the time the crime was committed they were insane. Of course, on occasions there is evidence which casts grave doubt on whether people did commit the crimes for which they were punished. I hope that on this occasion - I am pretty certain that it will happen - the Australian Parliament will set the seal on the standards of this community and by the passage of this Bill repeal the death penalty and therefore place Australia generally up with most other civilised nations and with several of the Australian States. I reject the amendments. I do not believe that there is any validity in the arguments put forward in support of them. Capital punishment is one of the last relics of barbarity on our statute book. Today is a very important point in parliamentary history because we will be setting standards for one or two of the States which have on their statute books provision for capital punishment which has been retained by the archaic procedures of legislative councils. 
I heard about the situation of the child on, I think, 27 August. I received a letter from her foster parents. At the same time I was informed by my Department that a critical situation was developing because of the demands of her natural father for the child to go back. The situation has unfortunately developed over the last 5 years because of the hesitancy - a reasonable hesitancy - of officials in the past to return the child when the parents wanted her back. She had been with the foster parents for about 5 years. As far as I could determine the actual custody of the child is a civil matter. The people responsible for returning her in the way in which I understand it did occur performed a remarkably insensitive operation. If any of our officials were involved we will, of course, have to take some action to ensure that they are not in a position to do that sort of thing again. 
As to the actual facts of the return of the child, I have not received full details yet. She is in the custody of her natural parents and as far as I can determine we as the Government have a moral duty to see that the ordinary services of the Australian community are available to them but we have no legal right to intervene between the parents and the child. This incident is the end result of an unfortunate system that has developed over many years of taking children from their parents and then not making a final and real determination about the actual custody. As far as I can see, the welfare of the child is of paramount importance but we must make sure that this sort of thing does not happen again. We will not act out any of the errors of the past as far as this Government is concerned. 
-Yes, I am quite aware of the situation. As I mentioned in answer to the earlier question, the girl is aged 7. She is now back with her natural parents. I understand that in the particular tribal situation the promising has taken place in the past and at some time in the future, say at the age of 10 or 12, the promise will or is likely to be consummated. It poses a very difficult social situation. If the authorities intervene between the child and the tribal customs in situations such as this we are likely to create a position where the girl is an outcast in both societies. It is unfortunate. We just do not know the answer in circumstances such as this. But one can hope that the education and other policies that are being developed, some of which of course flow from the past, will over come the problem in which girls in tribal situations find themselves. In this instance, I understand, the girl is happily placed back with her parents. But I will have the matter checked as thoroughly as possible and keep an eye on the situation. 
 I will be quite brief about this. I sat in this place over a period of 17 years and watched the behaviour of honourable members opposite when they were in government. I never saw or noted any compassion or consideration for the Opposition whatsoever. I do agree, however, that the time has come for us to consider the operations of the House and the way in which matters of this kind are dealt with. There could well be some restructuring of Standing Orders to provide for an announcement session immediately after question time. But I do believe that in situations such as this as they have developed over the last 8 or 9 months the behaviour of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is a piece of parliamentary vandalism. Every opportunity is taken to stop the smooth working of this place on the slightest possible pretext. The time to raise the question of how we operate this Parliament is in debates on the parliamentary estimates or when we are discussing Standing Orders. I believe that the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition is doing this House a great disservice and it is darn near time that he learned that his writ ran pretty poorly when he was running the place. We are going to change the structure so that, at last, Parliament will take over and we will not have the sort of phoney executive operations with which he used to conduct it. 
by leave - I wish to make this statement in 2 parts, firstly as a general statement and, secondly, with reference to the particular case of Nola Banbiaga who is now at Maningrida. I take this opportunity to inform the House of the approach which I think it appropriate for me, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and for the officers of my Department to take towards some matters of Aboriginal custom which have recently attracted public notice. 
I am particularly concerned by the suggestion voiced in some quarters that the Government should intervene, directly and arbitrarily, to prohibit certain betrothal and marriage customs, or aspects of them, and even to disallow or abrogate arrangements which Aborigines have entered into amongst themselves, simply because the customs or arrangements are distasteful or repugnant to our ideas. 
It is nearly always the case that incidents of this kind occur in communities which continue to live to a substantial extent in accordance with tradition although, as I will mention later, there is evidence that Aborigines widely are beginning to adapt that tradition, voluntarily, to their changed circumstances of life. But I believe it to be undoubtedly true that Such communities by and large, in respect of their own affairs, still want to live and as far as we allow them do live in accordance with their own law. Their betrothal and marriage customs are part of that law. What  Mr Justice  Blackburn held to be true of their land-holding and religion - that they governed themselves by veritable systems of law cognisable as such by our courts - is incontestably true also of their institutions of marriage. Indeed, in the world of expert scholarship, Aboriginal marriage systems have been recognised for well over a century as a classical instance of institutions governed by rules of general application and enforced by moral and jural sanctions. I am against interference from mere doctrine. 
I need hardly point out that in the past a great deal of what Professor Rowley rightly described as 'the destruction of Aboriginal society' was brought about by our domineering and arbitrary interference with customs we did not properly understand, and all too often did not even want to understand. One would hope that our days of proud and invincible ignorance are over. We will have learned nothing if we do not now think twice or thrice before we interfere, unless for reasons of grave and compelling urgency. I do not think we have such reasons. 
I mentioned earlier that the Aboriginal people quite widely are voluntarily adapting their traditional practices to new circumstances. There is a great deal of human and social wisdom amongst them in the ways they are going about it. They recognise that older and younger generations do not see things in the same way and many of them - both old and young - beseech me to let them work out their own adjustments in their own way without third party interference. As far as is humanly possible, that is what I want to do. 
The aspects of Aboriginal marriage arrangements which offend Europeans seem to be polygamy - or to give its correct name, so my experts tell me, polygyny - so called child marriage and what is often called the promise system. Let me say a few words about each, to put them in perspective, because there is a lot of misinformation about them. Polygyny was apparently never universal amongst Aborigines in the sense that every man had more than one wife at a time, or even in the course of a lifetime. Where the matter has been studied carefully it would seem that fewer than one man in two had more than one wife at a time. Some men no doubt had egotistical and sexual reasons for taking several wives, but others acquired them as a social duty. They were expected to give security to the widow of a dead brother or, in some cases, another relative, and other men, especially the older, took an additional wife or wives to support them in their declining years. But, in any case, multiple marriages are now clearly on the way out. The 'problem' is solving itself. This is not simply because the Christian missions, as they are entitled to, expect their adherents to be monogamists, but because there is a distinct shift of sentiment amongst Aborigines themselves, especially the younger ones. Having several wives is no longer as fashionable as, and in modern conditions rather more troublesome than, it used to be; widows need the social insurance of a man's protection less, and are often content to live as widows on the pension they receive and young women increasingly resist having to accept status as co-wives. Most mission authorities and settlement officials now wisely refrain from breaking up polygynous marriages of long standing. 
It may be worth my pointing out a fact that few Europeans realise - that the stability of Aboriginal marriages does not suffer by comparison with ours. Certainly, for us to interfere arbitrarily with old-established polygynous marriages would be intolerably censorious and meddlesome. Insofar as it is a problem it will be dealt with by Aborigines in their own way and in all probability will in time disappear. The main point I desire to make is that most of the circumstances allowing or encouraging polygyny have changed, and that Aborigines widely realise that this is the case. Neither I nor my officers are going to harass them about the matter. 
The betrothal of girls rests on some complex but ancient customs which we would do well to try to understand without prejudice. It certainly runs counter to some of our most cherished ideas, but many people who worry themselves about so-called child marriage do not realise the extent to which this misrepresents the Aboriginal custom, and even insults the Aborigines, who in some ways could teach us a lesson or two about the care of children. The Aboriginal tradition of child care was at least as solicitous as ours; it was less authoritarian; and in practical psychology it was possibly more perceptive. There was no bashed child syndrome amongst them. 
Under the old-fashioned rules of Aboriginal society - and again I stress that they were rules of law in a strict sense - it was allowable practice to bestow girls by betrothal for eventual marriage before they were born, or in infancy, or at any time before they were of marriageable age, or even after that age. This practice was sanctioned by morals as well as by law. It was also possible to bestow a girl as a man's future mother-in-law. This is what the Aborigines describe as the promise system. The promise in fact amounted to a solemn contract publicly known and recognised as such. The contract of eventual marriage was less between the boy and girl concerned than between their family groups. Interestingly enough, though the paternal families were consulted, the arrangement was usually much more between the maternal families of the boy and girl. A promise of this kind, properly entered into and later solemnised, as it usually was, by a formal if brief ceremony, was a very serious and public pledge, and could not be dishonoured with impunity. To do so injured interests wider than those of the principals. 
I fully recognise that the idea of young girls being required to marry men, often many years older, whom they may dislike, offends against our ideas of marriage, the liberty of the person, and women's status. Even so, I feel that we should tread very carefully here. Aboriginal society allowed, and still allows - I stress this point - girls and women who refuse to go through with marriages ordained for them ways of escape. It is simply inaccurate to picture them as men's chattels; it is also needlessly pejorative to talk about bride price; and perhaps I may point out too that only a few people in human history have attached the importance we do to romantic marriage and are so opposed to the idea of arranged marriage. I do not defend the Aboriginal attitudes. All I am doing is to suggest that meddlesome and morally censorious interference by us is not the answer to a tradition which a great many Aborigines, especially in the more traditional areas, still uphold strongly. Incidentally, the experts tell me that the durability of Aboriginal marriages under their system compares very favourably with our own. 
But, as in the other matters I mentioned, the Aboriginal scene is changing in this respect, too. I thought it very interesting and significant that a recent congress of Aborigines in the Northern Territory decided, of their own motion, that promises of long standing would continue to be honoured but that in future young men and women would be free to marry by choice provided they kept the other laws of marriage. This encourages me in the approach that I as the Minister and the officers of my Department wish to take. 
I believe that the Aboriginal people are at least as wise in respect of their own affairs as we are in ours. If we seriously intend to allow them to follow their own rules in their domestic and family affairs, and to adapt their style of life in ways and at speeds of their own choice and not ours - a principle to which the previous Government pledged itself - we must open to them fully the path of their own wisdom. I do not doubt that troublesome particular matters will arise from time to time. If so, I and my Department will discuss them with the Aborigines concerned with the utmost patience and goodwill. One hears a good deal about human rights. I remind the House that one of the most fundamental rights, of which we hear little, is the right to be different. The Aboriginal people, too, are entitled to that. 
That brings me to the recent occurrence in Darwin. I have had inquiries made about the movement of the child Nola Banbiaga from her foster parents' home in Darwin to her parents' home at Maningrida. The inquiries are not complete but I believe Parliament is entitled to know the information so far available. On 23 August I received a telegram from  Mr Athol  Brown, Nola's foster father, advising of the dispatch of a letter to me, and on 27 August I received the letter from  Mr Brown  seeking my support to retain the custody of Nola. I immediately sought advice from my Department and advised  Mr Brown  of this. On 8 September Nola was taken by a departmental social worker, with the foster parents' consent to meet members of her family at the Bagot Reserve. While she was at the Bagot Reserve representatives of the Aboriginal Legal Service are reported to have arranged for her to be flown with her father to Maningrida. Inquiries are proceeding to determine the extent to which the departmental officers were involved in these events, and should those inquiries show any departure from their duty appropriate action will be taken. 
Nola is one of many Aboriginal children who, because there were no essential medical, educational or other facilities available at their parents' normal place of residence, have been taken from their natural parents and reared in missions, orphanages, hospitals, institutions or private foster homes. The grief that this policy has caused the Aboriginal parents is equalled only by the grief of the foster parents who have been called upon later to surrender a child they have reared as their own. The effect of this policy on the child can only be guessed at, but there are outstanding examples of young Aboriginal men and women in our society who have overcome this trauma without loss of their cultural identity. But we should not impose this burden on any more children or parents or foster parents. New procedures must be developed to care for children found in this situation. It would be easy for me to claim that the custody of Nola is a civil matter as indeed it is; but as the Australian Minister for Aboriginal Affairs I accept the responsibility of putting right the wrongs of history and ensuring, by a vigorous policy of developing educational, medical and similar services in remote Aboriginal communities, that the practice of separating mothers from their children ceases. There are perhaps hundreds of children in orphanages and such institutions throughout Australia, as well as those with foster parents, who should be reconciled with their parents. I have asked my Department to initiate a program of reconciliation. 
There are one or two comments I want to make. The Press reports of this occurrence - and I deplore the occurrence - were in large measure irresponsible and they were inaccurate. First of all, some of the leading articles in newspapers for whose views I often have respect even if I disagree with them, carried racist assumptions that the child, in going back to her parents, inevitably was in the wrong place and would be ill-treated. There is no evidence that this is the case. The life that Aborigines lead might well be austere, but to assume that they ill-treat children is quite wrong. It is a racist assumption and it must not be allowed to be perpetuated throughout the community. 
The other thing was the wrong information. This caused me a great deal of concern, as it did everybody in the community. It was said that the girl was going back to marry a middleaged man. Nothing of the sort. It was said that the parents were nomads. They are not. It was said that the girl was put through certain initiation rites. She was not. These reports have had a very damaging effect on Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal relationships throughout the country. They have caused a great deal of concern to me and to many other people, and they have had all sorts of damaging implications, particularly in the Northern Territory. I hope that in future people who are reporting such events at least will take the care to get all the facts right and to base any comment upon assumptions which give consideration to the fundamental equality of the situation. 
This is my own view: First of all, the child's welfare is paramount. There can be no other consideration whatsoever. When this matter came to me suddenly one morning, I was asked to make a decision whether she should go back to her parents or whether she should stay where she was. I said: 'First of all, the child's welfare is paramount, but I cannot possibly be asked to solve that sort of question in this sort of situation'. So I discussed the matter with the director of my Department in the Northern Territory and we decided that the best advice that we could give to the parents and the foster parents was that if they would take legal action and put the matter in the hands of the courts we would ask the courts to expedite the matter - we initiated that - so that judicial judgment could be brought to bear upon it. Custody cases cause a great deal of heartache in this country. Nobody is ever satisfied that the decisions are right. So, my indignation was absolute when I found that some people had intervened in a manner which seemed to constitute a breach of trust with the Brown family. I offer the Brown family my sympathy in the situation in which they find themselves. I found that somebody had pre-empted the situation and the girl had gone back to Maningrida. I suppose Maningrida is one of the nicest spots in the Northern Territory. 
This problem is my inheritance. I have looked through the files. I find that this matter has been on the stocks for four or five years. For 4 years or more the parents have been asking for her back. I can only try to solve the problem. I do not blame anybody for not solving it in the past, except that I believe social workers as a profession should have taken much more effective steps to bring about a reconciliation between the foster parents, the parents and the child, and taken steps to make sure that what occurred in this case does not occur again. My own position is such that I will take every possible step to ensure Nola's welfare in the future. I make it quite clear that the legal position, as far as we can determine, is that the Government has no authority. The absolute authority, unless it can be proved in accordance with the law that- the child" is neglected, is in the hands of the parents. In these situations one has to take all sorts of actions. I took steps to ensure that physically the girl, for the moment, was in a sound situation. There has been some criticism of the steps I took, but I assure the House - I suppose honourable members would hold this view anyhow - that in attempting to solve these problems I do not propose to be imprisoned by the past or by any system. Human rights and the welfare of the people themselves will be mv first concern. 
 in reply - I thank the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  for allowing me time to make some comments. My comments will have to be brief. One of the penalties of being a Minister in a busy government is that one is pushed out of debates. However, it is a field day for me; this is the third time I have spoken today. I will try to be brief in my comments in answer to matters which have been raised principally by honourable members opposite. I deal, first of all, with the question of generosity, money and wisdom. What is wisdom in this field? For the 2 centuries in which we have occupied this continent nearly everything we have done has failed. The last thing I, my colleagues on this side of the House or members of standing committees concerned with Aboriginals would say is that we know what the answers are. The last thing we are trying to do is to bury anybody under a mountain of money. What I have attempted to do in the things which we have set going throughout Australia is to establish a stockpile of opportunity for the future. My colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  asks what we will do with Willowra. Things are not going too badly at Willowra. We might not have bought much profit with the purchase of that station, but we bought an immense rise in morale. We are placing the responsibility, as far as possible, back with the people themselves. We are asking them to develop their programs and we are trying to supply, with whatever wit and wisdom we have at our disposal, the capacity to solve the problem on the spot. 
On the wall of my office there are the names of some 460 places where Aboriginal people live. Some of the places are quite small, housing 20 to 30 people. Some are large and would be termed 'towns' in anybody else's language. Every one of them is unique. Every one of them is different. Every one of them has a problem of its own right across the board. Every one of them looks at Australian residents generally as problems too. The transfer or acceptance of responsibilities from the States is an attempt to create on the ground the people who will be able to take on the task as gathering these threads of wisdom that are about and turning them into realistic social policies. Many questions were raised this afternoon, and perhaps honourable members opposite will forgive me if I leave the answers to some of them until the Estimates debates start. We are adopting one or two principles. I believe, and my colleagues on this side of the House have made it clear, that it is only by consultation with the Aboriginal people and by their wholehearted participation in the operation that we will achieve any kind of success. In some places we are having success. One senses the .morale and notices the different way in which the Aborigines approach things compared with what they did 12 months or even 10 years ago. 
As honourable members have pointed out. I have been associated with Aboriginal advancement for many years. One of the stimulating things is that there are now so many Aboriginal people who can stand on their feet and dish it out. It so happens that at the present moment many of them dish it out to me. I have in my office a filing cabinet which ought to be labelled 'Friends I used to have'. But that is part of the operation. Some of the things we are doing, I suppose, will fail. If they do I will say to myself: 'Why did we do that? Why did we not know that would happen?' That just cannot be done in human affairs. We are still going forward with the objective of creating an Aboriginal voice of its own, integrated with that of the Department, the Ministry and the States. We are not attempting to take over everything that the States do. Our job is to make sure that duties are performed - to make teachers teach and doctors heal and to get councils to make roads down to the reserve. I am attempting to come to agreement with every community and every municipality where Aboriginal people live so that they can get things moving on the ground. 
It is my firm belief - I presume that my friends on the opposite side of the House would feel much the same way - that one of the great deficiencies of modern government, arising perhaps from its complexity and its size, is the isolation of governments from people. One of the products of this legislation will be the ability of the Australian Government to deal directly with the people on the ground as they are. I think this is a fundamental democratic concept. I would say that it is a fundamental democratic socialist concept that people deal directly with the governments to whom they look for assistance or whose laws rule them. This is part of the function. I do not believe that we are attempting to bypass or short-circuit the States. I do not think we can do things better than the States, or vice versa. I believe that it is the Government instrumentality and its attitude on the ground that will matter. All the matters that were raised in this debate, I point out briefly so that the Bill can be passed through this House and then transmitted to the Senate where I hope it will be passed with expedition, are designed towards creating that situation. 
We will not take over all that many people. Only a handful of people are involved  -  15 or 16 in South Australia and New South Wales, perhaps 60 or 70 in Western Australia and various numbers in the other States. This legislation is creating the opportunity for those persons to enter the Australian Public Service with all their rights preserved. The preamble has been written into the legislation to assure people that we accept the responsibility. All I can say is that in creating the stockpile of wisdom which we are trying to create every member of this Parliament may participate. Aboriginal hostels were mentioned earlier.  Senator Bonner  has been appointed to the hostels directorate. I believe that all members of this House can contribute something. They represent people on the ground and they can participate. 
A few weeks ago I visited several towns in the electorates of Moore and Gippsland. I will visit any electorate with anybody, as long as my physical capacity to do so and the transport systems of Australia can stand it. I suggest to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is notably sensitive on some human and social problems - erratic, eccentric and reactionary as he might be on others - that Point Pearce, which I think is in his electorate, might well come under his fatherly guidance. We enter this debate on the understanding that we all are concerned to take the Aboriginal people forward to a place in Australian society in which they feel equal and in which if they wish to be different they may be different in the same way as Scottish, Irish, Jewish and other people may. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  I am afraid, does not do the cause all that much good with his attack on the purchase of the Hil] End property in Brisbane. The property is a very good one. lt will be run as well as anything can be run. I am afraid that the citizens there are straining the friendship by their constant cry that if Aboriginal people live in it their behaviour will be bad. In general, the behaviour of Aboriginal people is much the same as the behaviour of everybody else. In general, I am certain that they can be part of the Australian society, as can anyone else. 
I make this assertion: This Government does not believe that money is everything, but it is a most handy weapon when one faces up to social problems. It does mean 10 houses, a street made, a health centre or specialist assistance. With it, we can say that we will foot the bill. The objective of the Government is to ensure that whatever we may be short of in ordinary wisdom, we will not be short of the resources which this Government can supply to do the job. 1 therefore commend the Bill to the House. I hope that it receives an expeditious passage through the other place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
&lt;3.52)- Thank you, fellow workers. It has been almost worth the 18 years to have received the tributes that I have received here today. It is true that yesterday I relinquished a portfolio which had taken a great deal of time and energy and all the rest that goes with it and I know that on occasions such as this my colleagues opposite who have thanked me and paid tribute to what I had done and who regretted my removal did not do so with their tongues in their cheeks. I appreciate their remarks. I believe that, hard as it is in some ways for a political character such as myself, but easy as it is for one with the socialist spirit such as my own, to regard anything in a bipartisan manner, it was necessary in the field of Aboriginal affairs to realise that this was a question for human beings that had very little to do with politics. I knew that we would clash in some areas of deep social policy such as land rights and so on, but, generally speaking, when it comes to treating people the way people ought to be treated, there is not a great deal of difference in the Australian community between left, right and centre about the immediate needs of the person on the ground. So, I appreciate the compliments that have been paid to me and I am very grateful for them. 
I propose to treat my exercise in handling what were the estimates for my Department and what were my responsibilities in this House by giving a brief summary of what I think we were setting out to do and then saying something about those matters which have been raised by each  speaker  in the debate insofar as they asked a question of some sort. Firstly, I should like to refer to the problem itself. My Aboriginal friends, of course, say: 'It is all right for you. You have 120,000 problems but we have 13 million problems'. That is true enough. One of the problems is that all Australians have to learn to live in a bicultural, multi-racial society. The Aboriginal people in some respects reflect the furthest extension of the plurality of society, perhaps physically and perhaps also by the fact that they can be recognised immediately. In other respects I think that there is a true Australianism in so many of the Aboriginal people which perhaps makes it easy for them to assimilate with the Australian characteristics. 
On a map on the wall of my office are marked 400-odd places where Aboriginal people live. Some have only 20 or 30 Aborigines and some of them have a thousand or more. In some of the big capitals they are submerged in the rest of the community. There are thousands of Aboriginal people. They are there, scattered right across the board, a community of its own, separate from but part of the Australian community. We have to resolve the way in which this problem can be sorted out so that the Aboriginal people oan live in the community in harmony with it, compatible with it, a part of it but for their own purposes in so many ways perhaps separate from it. 
I have said continuously to the Aboriginal people that they can take comfort from the situation of other ethnic groups around the world. In particular I cite the situation in the Middle East of the Jewish people who have been able to keep for themselves a separateness while being a part of other communities for so long. I have been one of those who for many years has eschewed the use of any terminology about this. Our aims in social policy cannot be defined by terms such as assimilation', 'integration' and so on, but I appreciate the remarks of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton). 
There are deficient communities from one end of the continent to the other. What is the machinery to overcome this problem? I believe that unfortunately the Australian governmental machinery, both State and Federal in all probability but certainly the Commonwealth, has not been designed for immediate urgent action anywhere. We are very cautious in the way in which we approach matters. There are so many things to be considered when one is expending public moneys, making the estimates, preparing to inspect them, audit them, call tenders for projects, arrive at a conclusion and get action. This process unfortunately is not good enough where people's needs are immediate. So we set out to find out some of the problems. They were not all that easy to locate. We are setting out, I hope, to establish new kinds of machinery, but that will take some time. 
I raise one matter - I do this because my own personal way of doing things is under consideration in the matter - regarding the remarks of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  last night about advisers, consultants, and so on to Ministers. He said that their appointment was an imposition on the Australian parliamentary system which had sinister overtones, connotations or results. I am as deeply dedicated to the parliamentary institution as is anybody else but I think that the honourable member is over-rating or misunderstanding the situation. It seems to me that to be able to call upon reserves from within the community generally and the support of actions or the investigation of actions, is a necessary part of the democratic governmental process. We have been told repeatedly that the continuous expansion of the Australian Public Service is bad. I do not believe that. I think that in a modern complex society the Public Service will decide the kind of life we lead. 
But take some of the things with which I am faced. We have a department which we hope, in conjunction with the Minister, will do what my colleague the Minister for Works and Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  said it should do, namely, make all the other instrumentalities work. Therefore one does not set up housing services of his own, health services of his own and education services of his own. The separateness of these things in Aboriginal affairs from State to State and in the Commonwealth under the old Department of the Interior worked out badly. Therefore, it is more desirable to be able to call up the resources - intellectual, physical, technical and so on - in the community for the time being. This is what we have been doing and what I have done myself. I shall cite one example that honourable members in this House might know quite well, namely, the appointment of Captain Benson the former honourable member for Batman. Why pick Captain Benson? Not because he is a former member of the House or anything like that, but because he is the best in the business. He is also readily available, so that if one wants someone to look at luggers in Torres Strait Sam Benson can go there tomorrow and one needs to keep him for only 2 or 3 days. 
Let us assume that his kind of expertise is aavilable in the Department and somebody is wanted to examine luggers in Torres Strait. That person would be sent off to Torres Strait. It would take him H days to get there, a day or so there to do some small job and li days to come back. For what was in fact a day's work the best administrator would take 4 or 5 days to do it. I believe that we could establish a much better machinery for calling up this kind of expertise, consultants, advisers - call them what you like - momentary public servants, people serving the public. That is the way in which I have approached the matter. I find the use of such people cheap, but I also find them effective. I have also, as a policy, adopted the tactic of using whatever resources other departments can supply. There is a tremendous amount of skill, technique and professional knowledge inside Australian government departments. But they are not always readily available and Ministers are not always keen on having some of their experts whipped off to the other end of Australia. I have answered that point because this is a technique which we have all had to adopt, faced with new social and professional situations. I think it is a fair answer on behalf of all of us here to the honourable member for Isaacs whose remarks I know were meant to be directed in all earnestness. 
One of the principal, I suppose, revolutions - perhaps that is not the correct word to use - that we have implemented in Aboriginal affairs is constant and continual consultation with the Aboriginal people. This has been referred to by colleagues on both sides of the chamber. It is to get the Aboriginal people into the act. I suppose it is only an extension of our Labor Party philosophy that the community must participate in the decisions that are being made about it. The Aboriginal community has always been on the receiving end. We have done things for them and to them but rarely with them. So we have set up apparatus throughout Australia to consult them. This is one of the reasons why I have been around this continent almost often enough to get giddy, to sit in the dust somewhere and let people talk, to let them come and talk, to sit there perhaps for an hour to have 10 minutes conversation with people who are not accustomed to talking. The second time one goes back to these people things are a bit different, or when they come to Canberra they come to look me up. This makes it difficult for one's staff. I hope that the new Parliament House will have many more facilities in it for consultations with the citizens on the spot. 
The National Advisory Council is in the process of being elected. It is absolutely essential in Aboriginal affairs that the Aboriginal people should speak for themselves and administer themselves wherever they can, become part of the apparatus and are actually injected into it. I suppose that another part of the revolution has been the raising through the departmental system of such people as  Mr Perkins,  and the creation of the consultant and liaison branch comprised of the Aboriginal people or anybody else. We all colleagues opposite will say: These people are not real Aborigines. They are not full bloods'. Some terms about Aborigines were used during the course of the debate. I will not mention them, but on behalf of the Aborigines I say to honourable members: Please do not use derogatory terms in debates about Aboriginal people or anybody else. We all have hearts. We all have feelings and those terms do not do anybody any good. 
I think one that was used was 'part-coloured city slickers' or something like that. I know that the people who use such terms do not really mean them in the derogatory way that they sound, but I know that my friends among the Aboriginal people were deeply hurt when they heard something like that. I merely ask that in these matters we should refer to the Aboriginal people as we would refer to anybody else. 
Aboriginal participation is, I hope, the step we have taken which will produce the best result. None of us can say with any certainty when we venture into social paths that we will produce any result. I am optimistic, and have reason to be after a long time in politics. When an overseas journalist came to me and said:  'Mr Bryant,  nobody else has produced a solution to a non-technological people overwhelmed by a technological society and nobody else has produced a satisfactory race relationship. How do you expect to succeed?' I said: 'I hope to succeed, and I propose that we will succeed but nobody can give the guarantee.' But it is my belief that the new spirit of aspiration and expectation that has been raised amongst the Aboriginal people of Australia by the exercise of the power of this Government and the resources placed at its disposal will go a long way towards achieving that. 
We have the advantage that we live in a society which, although I do not know that it is a tolerant society, is one which will put up with people more easily than will societies in most other parts of the world. I represent a great industrial area where huge numbers of migrants have come to live. There have been few social tensions arising there. We might be difficult and we might ignore our neighbours; but we would not go crook about a man and his wife and family unless they became too unhygienic or kicked up too much of a shindy in the middle of the night. Therefore we live in a more benevolent society in that regard when it comes to getting people to live side by side. 
Several honourable members have asked: What about all this money? Where are these huge sums of money going? It is set out in the estimates in pretty bold figures. I think it was my colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who mentioned the question of the Trust Account, as did some other honourable members. That amount has been raised from some $30m to some $70m. What does it mean? It is the way in which the system operates. About $32m of that amount will go to the State governments. One can only hope that they will perform. It is a sad fact that their performance is not always up to the standard that one wants. Of that amount, $4.2m will go to organisations of various sorts around the country which we will subsidise. The special works projects were mentioned. Lists will be prepared so that people can obtain them and understand where the money has gone or is going to in municipalities. There' will be $40,000 going here, $30,000 there and $100,000 somewhere else. I think that last week I authorised money for 40 different municipalities in Queensland. 
Then there is the Commonwealth's own housing program, basically in the Northern Territory. When the amount of $10m was submitted to me I thought that it was an enormous sum, but when it is spread out over the communities $5,000 here, $17,000 there, $6,000 here and $12,000 there - it does not make an enormous impact upon the situation. Community amenities require the expansion of the program inside the communities. It may well be at Papunya, at Warburton or somewhere in Western Australia, for instance. We will spend $20,000 or $30,000 for the beginning of a program of turning them into the sort of Australian communities they ought to be. The principal project there is to get the people doing the work for themselves. I have said to some of them, and they appreciate it: 'You must not think we will import contractors here while you sit down and draw unemployment benefits'. I think it was my friend the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  who remarked that the Aboriginals did not want to be on unemployment benefits; they wanted to be employed. The response I received to that simple technique was remarkable. 
The Government will expend a couple of million dollars on hostels around the country. I will deal with the Hill End hostel directly for the honourable member for Griffith. There will be special assistance of $1.2m for health programs. Of course, that is not the lot. Adult, pre-school and other educational programs will receive $250,000. So it goes on down the list. We will provide $1.5m for legal aid. I hope that not too much of it is spent on charter aircraft. For transport and communications we will provide $lm because there is much to be done to establish effective communication programs throughout Australia. For community enterprises we will provide $3m and for properties off reserves we will provide $5m. I will deal with the points raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  directly. About $4.5m will be kept in reserve, unallocated as yet. It is fatal to say This is the program for this year. We will spend $0.2m on this and $3. 5m on that' because in the next month or two something will turn up that had not been thought of before and it will need proper attention.  So  this has to be a flexible arrangement. We are applying as much skill as we can to seeing that public funds that are spent on such things as legal aid services are publicly accounted for. I have a strong conviction about this, as honourable members will recall from the state aid debates, as they might be called, over the years. My particular conflict with giving public funds to non-public bodies is the accountability and responsibility to the communities from which the funds flow. 
Let me take up a few of the points raised by honourable members during the debate. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  made a few thoughtful points. I was grateful for the remarks he made about my own administration of the portfolio. Several honourable members raised the matter of consultation with State governments. We have been doing this. It is a mystery to me how Australia ever federated. It was possible to achieve a mystical communion between  President  Nixon and Mao Tse-tung and Chou En-lai in Peking; but let one try some mystical communion with the Minister in Victoria. 
 Strangely enough, it is easier to understand and get along with Queensland than with Victoria. But nobody should take much consolation from that. The Government is consulting with the States. It is my belief that we will have to make agreements with each State about various things and until we do so the Department will be very light on the ground. Until we achieve this relationship it is unwise for us to create big or new departmental structures in most of the States.  I  suppose that with New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia we can come to an agreement and the people who are particularly involved in this area in those States will come to us. It would be a fairly factuous exercise in public administration to create an organisation some three or four months before such agreement was reached. The  'Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned the police and race discrimination. I have had one of those 'sinister characters' - an adviser or consultant - getting around amongst the police forces just to find out the basic reasons for their attitudes. It will be a few weeks before his report is received. We can only carry out experimental attitudes and put people in the field to try to find out what makes people pretty sticky in their personal relationships in this regard. Programs are beginning in all these areas. 
Let me deal now with the vexed question of the Hill End hostel. My colleague from Griffith seemed to regard it as a most mischievous undertaking. It is a very nice piece of real estate. It is a former Baptist theological college. The Government purchased it because it was just what seemed to be needed - a good piece of real estate, good accommodation, the set-up for some of the things we wanted. Thirty or forty people can be accommodated in it. It can be used for instructional purposes. We hope that it will be ready for occupancy in the near future. It is being renovated. At this stage it is expected that the hostel will be occupied by working girls. But none of these decisions are totally hard and fast at the moment. I do not think that these girls will do the citizens of Hill End all that much damage. I only hope that the citizens of Hill End - some of whom appeared to be rational enough when I was there - will appreciate their presence amongst them. I was a little taken aback by some of the things people said when this proposal was announced, and the honourable member for Griffith has to accept some of the responsibility. 
This situation will occur throughout Australia. There is no reason why hostels for Aboriginal people should be any different in the community from hostels for Baptists. One lady said to me: 'You are creating an Aboriginal ghetto'. All I can say to that is: 'If it is not a ghetto for Baptists, it is not a ghetto for Aborigines'. We will be establishing community centres, cultural centres and so on throughout Australia. The honourable member for the Northern Territory- 
 Goodness gracious me! I do not regard it as being inefficient to upset the honourable member. He is so conservative that if the officers of the Department are not upsetting him they should be sacked. 
I hope that it was not because I upset the honourable member. The facts are that the Government purchased the building because it offered all these opportunities. As the months have gone by, each one has been considered. The actual relationships are still to be determined, but at the moment it seems that it probably will be for working girls not long out of school. I am sure that the gentle souls around that area will see that they are properly cared for. 
My colleague from the Northern Territory raised a number of matters. Perhaps they should be handled at some other time. On a number of occasions he has raised the question of Willowra, a station in the northern part of South Australia. We will not allow these properties to run down, nor will we demand immediate economic viability. They are spiritual homes as much as anything else for the people who live on them. I understand the facts are that the cattle population on properties taken oyer by Aborigines is not all that much different from what it used to be. 
A few other matters were raised by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  concerning the allocation of funds. As I pointed out in my explanation of the Aboriginal Trust Account the funds are going in various directions in the encouragement of community enterprises, in the development of housing, in the setting up of employment opportunities and in providing backstops to education, health and other services. We will have further information on the matter prepared so that honourable members can have some more detail and everybody will understand what is likely to happen in his own electorate. 
A good number of other questions were raised by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  It is a bit exasperating that we have to be so time saving in this Parliament at this time, but it is the product of a very busy government. I can assure the honourable member for Gwydir that the programs we are developing for Moree and places such as that will continue and that my colleague,  Senator Cavanagh,  the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, subscribes to the same philosophy as the rest of us and attaches the same sense of importance to humanity, and there will not be any diminution of our effort in tha" regard. My colleague the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  answered the questions about the turtle project The concept is not under attack. It is a question of whether it should be developed as it is or in some other way. 
I think I have just about covered most of the matters that have been raised. The honourable member for Deakin said that he did not have any Aboriginal people in his electorate. When you go looking for them you cannot find them but census statistics show there are 35 Aboriginal people at Box Hill and 61 in Nunawading. 
Well, he is improving. It has taken him a while though. He is a slow learner in some matters political. In finishing I refer to the Victorian situation. I thought I had come to a complete agreement with the Minister for Housing in Victoria that in fact it would be better if the Australian Government perhaps accepted responsibility for Aboriginal housing in Victoria. Responsibility can be of all sorts. We accept the financial responsibility to start with. But as my colleague the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works pointed out, we have to make all the other instrumentalities work. In every State there are housing commissions, banks, housing societies, municipal authorities and all sorts of organisations which can perhaps carry out the responsibilities for you. The Victorian Department of Housing told me that the best way to get the first lot of people into houses was to let the Victorian Department do it. I was told that there were 45 families that needed housing immediately. Believing this to be the quickest way to do it, I said: 'We will supply you with the funds. You do it'. This does not mean that we are shedding the responsibility, but I am finding extraordinary difficulty in arriving at the same meaning of words as  Mr Dickie  of Victoria did, but the last lot of communications might have sorted that out. We accept direct responsibility for the Aboriginal people of Australia. That means financial responsibility. It means that administrations everywhere will have to carry it out. 
Officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have placed themselves at the disposal of the cause. Quite selflessly they have gone around Australia, leaving hearth and home on innumerable occasions. I suppose it will be another five or six months before we have sufficient people on the ground throughout the country. No matter who is governing this country, the time has well passed when we should reconsider the structure whereby we decide the way in which governmental services shall operate. It seems to be that, while being protective of individual public servants, the way in which we arrive at governmental structures is so slow that a government's course can almost have run before it has the forces on the ground to carry out its policies. I hope that when we get round to a reconsideration of the structure of the Public Service and so on, perhaps in the near future or at any stage, honourable members opposite will remember that it is being done for the nation, and therefore I hope that they will get through to their senatorial colleagues so that they will co-operate. I can assure the Parliament that under  Senator Cavanagh  the policies we have developed will proceed with the expedition with which I hope they have been over the past nine or ten months. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, 137,851,000. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is the machinery by which we pass to the States the funds that this Parliament allocates. I propose, with the agreement of the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  that, instead of reading out the second reading speech document that I have here, I will ask that it be incorporated in Hansard and then I will outline what the procedures are as proposed by it. I do so because we had a lengthy debate on this subject in the consideration of the Estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Agairs only yesterday. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! Is leave granted? 
 It is always a pleasure to listen to the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley).  He says it all so we'  I  but what he says never seems to mean everything. Just recall the way he referred to a mindless centralism. We are talking about an operation in which a Schools Commission is to dispose of very large sums of money to innumerable institutions for them to dispose of according to their own considerations and he calls that centralism. If honourable members opposite would only depart from some of the slogans and start to think about what the problems. Let us consider for a moment his charge that the Karmel Committee was not given enough time. That may well be true. However I believe it performed a prodigy in producing its report so soon. However the point is that my colleagues opposite might stop and consider next time they get back to their electorates what this Bill really means for the schools. 
Of the 10,000 schools of Australia and the 8,000 State schools in particular there are hundreds if not thousands that ought not to be allowed to continue a day longer than necessary in their present condition. A great number of them are in electorates such as mine. There is an urgency about this matter which we have been promulgating for the last 17 or 18 years but it still escapes my friends opposite. Over the years the Australian Education Council produced continuous reports about the needs of education. We placed those reports before the Parliament year after year but to no avail. Now we are applying a sense of urgency to an immediate human problem. Most of the children that pass through our schools will pass that way once and if this is not done for them this time their opportunity has gone for good. That, I think, is the urgency involved in this Bill. The establishment of the Schools Commission is the next step. 
What are some of the other things that honourable members opposite say. I am always intrigued at the use of the phrases 'the independent schools' and 'the independent system'. Independent of what? The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  for instance, earlier told us how important it was that the independent schools have public funds. Obviously they are not independent of the public purse. Are they independent of the education system? Of course they are not. They design their education system generally speaking to fit into the same pattern as everybody else and to produce the same type of people to go to the same sort of universities. They are not independent in that respect. They are not independent of anything but public responsibility. We believe that that is one of the most important functions of government. They do not accept the same responsibility as do the State education systems. To find out one only has to get on the telephone and ask whether it would be all right to take 6 children along tomorrow. 
Several years ago the Department of Defence and the Department of the Interior agreed upon the terms upon which servicmen could leave houses in Canberra when posted elsewhere. The terms were that for 2 years they were permitted to own their houses financed with Commissioner for Housing loans, but after 2 years they were allowed to continue to own them with Commissioner for Housing loans provided they gave definite evidence of an intention to return to live in Canberra. The only occasion so far on which people have been asked to renegotiate their loans are those where they have not given satisfactory evidence that they propose to live in Canberra. The attitude I will pursue in relation to this matter is, of course, that we are here to change situations of hardship and not to administer them. I will discuss the matter with the Minister for Defence to see that servicemen are not disadvantaged. But we are certainly not going to permit a system whereby people are able to take a double advantage of any particular benefits that flow in any situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Department of the Capital Territory originally proposed offering leases of 253 blocks for detached housing at auction during August. This sale was suspended at my colleague,  Mr Enderby's  direction while consideration was given to other methods of allocating residential land. 
Another 277 blocks were nominated by the NCDC for sale in September and the Department also has a further 34 sites for lease which have been previously ' leased, but the leases of which have been determined or surrendered. 
In total on 7 September, the Department of the Capital Territory had 253 blocks on hand. This increased to 564 blocks by 30 September. 
The National Capital Development Commission has advised that as at 30 September there were an additional 2,100 blocks reaching the final stage of servicing and or surveying. The Commission has stated that under the previous system of one or two monthly auctions these blocks would have been made available to the Department for sale over the next five or six months. These blocks will become available progressively for disposal under the revised system of land allocation which was announced on 27 September. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The necessary information is being sought from the Departments responsible. When this is received I will make it available to the honourable member. 
There is certainly no intention as is imputed in part (3) of the question. Indeed Tuggeranong Station was a fifty year lease until 30 September 1972 when it was withdrawn for Commonwealth purposes. The Australian Government however has an agreement with  Mr Mccormack  to use the buildings and structures on a rental basis and to agist the land for grazing of stock. 
Of course, it is one of this Government's duties and objectives to iron out all anomalies that exist from the past, and the matter raised by the honourable member appears to be one of these anomalies. 'I will have this matter taken up straight away and if what the honourable member outlined is the case we will see what can be done about it. 
There are 4 Taiwanese fishing vessels which were arrested by the Royal Australian Navy and which are now in the following ports: Two are in Perth, one is in Darwin and one is in Maryborough. These vessels were taken over by the Department of Primary Industry. Early in this year, the Minister for Primary Industry asked me whether the Aboriginal people or the Island people could use them. Each of the vessels is worth between $400,000 and $500,000. So this proposal was given serious consideration. One of the vessels was moved from Darwin to Maryborough. I do not know what stage has been reached there. The Walker's Ltd shipyard at Maryborough examined the vessel with a view to refitting it. I understand that the normal procedure for refitting a vessel is that it is taken to a yard and the refitting procedures are on a cost-plus basis. 
The object is to get one of these ships to sea so that the Island people will be able to use it. This is very valuable piece of equipment. I hope that, with the experience of operating this vessel, we will be able to make use of the other vessels when they are brought up to Australian navigational standards and so on. The real objective is to get the maximum use of these ships for the benefit of the people in the north. As to the cost, I will have to find out what the current situation is. 
No, tenders were not called. Normally, vessels for refitting work of this nature must be taken to a yard, examined thoroughly and then negotiations entered into with the shipyard on the refitting. My understanding is that normally for refitting work of this nature tenders are not called but that the work and its cost must be dealt with on the spot according to the requirements. 
Yes, I am aware of the dispute that has occurred at the Hospital. On Friday of last week I had a conference with officials of the union based in Melbourne and officials based in Western Australia. The problem is that there are some 60 members of the staff who take all the advantages that accrue to the staff because of union activity and union sacrifices and they will not join the union. They do not have to join the union. They are not being forced to join the union. But we have made facilities available to enable union officials to speak to them. The talk of coercion is nonsense. There happens to be a core of people there who refuse to join the union. There is nothing in the award which says that they must join. I have explained to the union that I believe it is the job of the union to persuade them to join and that we would make every facility available to enable the union to have access to the people who are involved in this case. But I must make it quite clear that unionism is fundamental to the way in which we conduct our operations in industrial matters. I believe quite firmly that those people who are part of a work force and who take advantage of all the things that accrue as a result of union activity are morally and ethically bound to join a union. 
Of course their jobs are protected. 
It is true that the roads leading into Canberra are unsatisfactory, particularly the last few miles of them. It is my belief that the road from Yass to Canberra is so different from the main highway and from the road inside the Australian Capital Territory that it will have to be approached as part of the national scheme. I will consult my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, who I think is the tactful negotiator with the State governments on these matters. I have initiated a study of what is necessary to bring the roads leading into Canberra up to the general standard. We hope, of course, that we will be able to negotiate with the people over the border as successfully as we can with people outside Australia. It is one of the unfortunate facts of public life in Australia that it is much more difficult to deal with many of the State governments than it is to deal with foreign powers. 
 I hope I can do justice to my colleague the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in whose place I stand tonight. My colleagues from both sides of the House have been able to accept this legislation with much greater alacrity than they have accepted the projection of the Commonwealth into the field of education over the last 16 or 17 years. This Bill is a step along the road towards overcoming all of those disabilities in education which my colleagues, particularly those on this side of the House, have pointed out tonight. My colleague, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  has just managed to cover most of the points raised by members of the Opposition, but I will summarise some of them. This legislation will cover approximately 125,000 students next year. These students represent one per cent of the Australian population. 
It is approximately a year since the centenary of the establishment of free compulsory and secular education in Victoria in 1872. It is a little surprising that at this time, one century after we accepted the fact that free and compulsory education at the primary school level was the right of every citizen, we still find doubts being expressed about the introduction of free education at the university level. The Labor Party accepts the view that the total program of education of the citizen ought to be free of any test applied through wealth. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  raised several matters which I will do my best to answer. He was worried about whether the secondary education assistance scheme which is to be introduced next year will be of some disadvantage to the holders of current scholarships. No, it will not. We propose to ensure that no existing scholarship holder will 'be disadvantaged in any way whatsoever. I will deal with part time students directly. It is to ensure that no one is disadvantaged that the Bill is flexible, and this is the reason we will rely to such an extent upon regulations. Honourable members opposite can rest assured that the Minister and the members of the Government on this side of the House will keep a close watch on the system to ensure that the principles upon which we have embarked are carried into action. 
The difference between the approach to education of the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  and of honourable members on this side of the House is that we approach academic progress in a non-competitive spirit. While I accept the point that is usually put from the other side about academic excellence and all the rest of it, education is not simply the pursuit of academic excellence. Education is a growth of the intellect and the participation of the human being in the total affairs of society. I for one for a very long while have been propagating the faith of non-competition in the school. In the end what we have to do is produce a system in which a student overcomes the hurdles of his own deficiencies rather than trying to compete with somebody else. Therefore the last step to be taken at the present stage is to open the universities to everybody without those attending having to compete against each other. Of course, there will be many difficulties. Quotas will be necessary because the past has not prepared us for 1974. However, this is one of the challenges to which we will be facing up. We approach this matter on the basis that access to the financial resources of the nation which are provided for education should be basically related to need rather than some competitive system. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, all of this will be supplemented by the secondary allowances legislation which will be introduced shortly and which I hope will be passed through this House with some expedition. 
The honourable member for Wannon and other honourable members opposite raised the question of academic progress in its relationship to scholarships. Of course, that is the way in which the system has been operating up until now. I do not see any alternative than to apply some criterion such as academic progress to people who are in receipt of some benefit from the nation. It is necessary to do this under the present scheme; it will be necessary to do this in the future. The standard requirement will probably be that people will have to be able to proceed to the next year of study. But I for one will do my best to ensure that the whole program is administered with liberality and, on occasions, with more compassion than toughness. 
The question of the review tribunals was raised. I agree with the view expressed by the honourable member for Chisholm that this is a parliamentary system and in the end the responsibility must lie with the Minister. But it is necessary to establish tribunals which can handle the situation with expedition and also, I hope, with liberality and with some compassion. But it is their job to sort out the people with scarce resources and to ensure that people are treated with justice and equity. I agree with the demand that these tribunals operate with expedition. There is probably nothing more exasperating and perhaps more heartwrenching to the student than to have to wait for months to know whether he will be able to embark upon the year's course. This is one of the reasons why we probably will be establishing a good number of these tribunals, and we will be using every pressure possible to see that the matters that come before the tribunals are handled with expedition. 
Let me deal for just a moment with the question of abolition of fees. This matter has been raised from all manner of quarters, and sometimes it has been raised by people associated with my own brand of politics. It has been said that the abolition of fees is of no great significance, that the student is able to get assistance from some other quarter, and that therefore fees ought to be retained just to ensure that scarce resources are not placed at the disposal of the wrong people. I represent an area in which many of the families have raised their level of aspiration for their student children to as high as university level. With their general level of income, there is no possibility for them to sustain a child at a university. The abolition of the fees, which now run at $400, $500, and $600 a year, will make a substantial contribution to their opportunity to allow their children to attend a university. Also it will give us the chance of picking up everyone who has the possibility of attending university. 
I think this applies equally to part time students. I am an old part time student from away back myself. I was a part time student during the times when we had a reconstruction training scheme which picked up thousands of us and took us through university and such like. So I know exactly what it means not having to face up to pay fees. To most part timers the abolition of the fees and the creation of further facilities will be much more important than saving the small amount which would result from the abolition of union fees and such like. But there is no reason why in the future we should not examine this situation in order to see that the last part of the fee system is abolished. This is the beginning of the whole operation. 
The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  raised the question of technical education, and he was supported in his remarks by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  We have established the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education. That Committee will be examining the whole system in this area. We intend to ensure that the points raised by the honourable member for Gwydir and amplified by my colleague from Barton are overtaken in the near future. The question of curricula was raised also. We propose to establish a curricula development centre. Although basically curricula are the responsibility of the States, we accept the final responsibility. One of the great challenges in the education system is to ensure that those things that we lay down as policy in this place are actually carried into effect by the State authorities at the ground level. I am one of those who are concerned that in fact it will be very difficult to ensure that this happens. It may not be that there is any malevolence on the part of State governments, although some State governments manage to disguise their acceptance of these policies very adequately. But the facts are that State systems in the past have proved inadequate in these fields. We have to find a new way of co-operating between the Australian Government and the State governments in these matters. We will probably have to look for assistance from our colleagues opposite to try to convert their colleagues in the State parliaments into adopting a much more co-operative attitude. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  raised the question of isolated children and the appropriate benefits. I think he is mistaken in the assumption that isolated children will be at a greater disadvantage than they are at present. In the first instance, isolated children's benefits include an amount of $350 free of means test, an amount of $350 subject to a means test and an amount of $304 for special hardship cases. That makes a total of $1,004. But we have been looking over the operations of this year and this matter is now under review by a committee consisting of both State and Federal representatives. But isolated children are not necessarily excluded from receiving secondary scholarships and in some cases neither are children from low income families. So in fact this is a part of a system that has had a long haul in getting here. But I believe it is a part of a step along the road towards creating for students an atmosphere where if they are rich they do not have to depend on the charity of their parents and if they are poor they do not have to depend on the charity of the States. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 I want to say only this: There has been  4i  hours debate so far, and there is 4i hours left. In the orderly management of the place, it is the best contribution you could get. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clauses 2 to 28  -  by leave - taken together. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A recent amendment of the Repatriation Act permits regulations to be made requiring determining authorities constituted under the Act to give reasons for their decisions on claims and appeals. Regulations to that end are yet to be made. 
As explained in the Second Reading Speech on the Repatriation Bill (No. 3) on 11 September, it is necessary to introduce the giving of reasons for decision gradually, so that determining authorities will have time to adjust to the new requirements. Several of those authorities are now assessing the extent of administrative and other changes that will be necessary, and none of the authorities will begin recording decisions and notifying claimants and appellants until the full implications of the change are known. 
See (2) above. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: &lt;1) Yes. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to question No. 318 appeared in Hansard of 28 August 1973 on page500. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At 2 December 1972, two pastoral leases had been approved for Aboriginal pastoral companies by the Minister for the Interior in the McMahon Government. The Lands Board had recommended the granting of two other pastoral leases to Aboriginals, and was reconsidering another two applications. 
Aboriginal Land Rights (Question No. 7S9) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  &lt;il) The Government will await the final report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission before taking action to provide further land for the Gurindji at Daguragu .(Wattie Creek). Meanwhile a study has been commissioned to examine what area of land would be required to allow the group to establish the cattle enterprise -which they wish to develop. Assistance is being provided to allow the group to continue developmental work at Daguragu on the basis of the small area surrendered to provide for a special purpose lease for the Murramulla Gurindji association. 
The question of what tribal groups will participate in the further development of the area will be subject to the outcome of the Government's consideration of the final report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. As announced on 7 December 1972 action in relation to applications for exploration licences over areas in Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory has been suspended pending the implementation of government policy of granting land rights to Aboriginals. 
Since 2 December 1972, one Aboriginal community has applied for an exploration licence over reserved land and eight applications have been received from non-Aboriginals; one application by a non-Aboriginal has since been withdrawn. 
Applicants for exploration licences in the Northern Territory are not required to state their racial origin. So far as is known, however, no applications for exploration licences over areas outside reserves have been received from Aboriginals since 2 December .1972. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
Funds are being provided to communities to permit them to purchase land. 
The following properties have been purchased by Aboriginal communities since December 1972: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The policy of the Australian Labor Party as approved at the 29th Conference at Launceston in 1971 included the statement that 'Aboriginal land rights shall carry with them full rights to minerals in those lands'. 
The relevant section of the policy of the Australian Labor Party as amended at the 1973 Conference states: 
All Aborigines jointly to share the benefit from the development of natural resources, including minerals, on Aboriginal lands. 
and(4) The Government will determine what action should be taken in relation to land rights, and in relation to minerals in Aboriginal lands, when the final report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission has been received. 
No. 
No. The Council for Aboriginal Affairs has not to date offered advice or comment on the policy platform. 
Aborigines Residing in Urban Sydney (Question No. 896) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The reply to question No. 552 (Hansard, 28 August 1973, page 501) indicated that, at the census of June 1971, 5,257 persons identifying as Aboriginals were enumerated in the Sydney metropolitan area. 
The March 1973 report by W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd to the Minister for Youth and Community Services in New South Wales on the 'Problems and Needs of the Aboriginals of Sydney', gives an estimated Aboriginal population of about 9,000 in the Sydney metropolitan area. This figure was based on surveys in the course of which a total of 3,863 Aboriginal persons were enumerated. Estimates were made that an additional 5,235 Aboriginal persons were resident in the area, but these persons were not actually contacted in the survey. 
It can be assumed that the population would have increased significantly between June 1971 and July-September 1972 when the survey was conducted. It is also probable that a number of persons of Aboriginal descent did not identify as such at the 1971 census and that others were for various reasons not enumerated in the census. The census figure given in reply to the previous question did not include persons who identified as Torres Strait Islanders of whom they were 524 enumerated in the Sydney metropolitan area. It appears that the figures in the survey report do include Islanders. As indicated, the figure given in the survey report is based to a significant degree on estimates. While these were educated estimates, made on the basis of the best information available to the survey team, it may be that the figure of 9,000 is an over-estimate. 
The Minister for . Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are Aboriginal Legal Aid Services established in each State and the Northern Territory, to provide legal advice and representation for Aboriginals. 
No. 
With the exception of the New South Wales Service, the Services have only been established this year and I am not prepared to initiate a general inquiry into their activities. I am prepared, however, to consider the need to investigate specific matters if the honourable member wishes to provide me with details. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
and (3) See answer to (1) above. 
The actual right or authority to export such products as turtle meat or anything else, I understand, flows from a decision by the Minister for Customs. So far as I know, nothing has been done on that account, but I will check on the matter. As to the export of any of these products, as the honourable member will be aware, the Government has serious doubts about such things as the export of kangaroos. The turtle project was a totally different proposition and, of course, was launched under the previous Government. As for the inquiry by the-- 
Do not pick on the turtles. It was the previous Government which started the project. The turtles are the innocent victims of my predecessors. The other point in the question concerned the inquiry into the operations of the turtle project. Several months ago I referred the matter to the AuditorGeneral to examine the way in which the project was being financed, accounts were being kept and all other aspects of it. So far I have not received his report, although I understand that its presentation is pending. When it is received, it will be the property of my colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, in another place. What is done about it will be a matter for his decision. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
Expenditure by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on Aboriginal welfare for the period 2 December 1972 to 31 August 1973 was as follows: 
I referred the matter to the Department of the Capital Territory. Consideration has been given to what needs to be constructed in order to overcome the disabilities that flow from the disposal of garbage and such material in the Australian Capital Territory. The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, too, has been looking at the situation. I think it is one of the things in which we should set an example for the rest of Australia, but I have to negotiate with a number of my colleagues on this matter. Some of the problems in the Capital Territory are rather confused in such areas as smoke. For instance, I understand that the chimney at the hospital is the responsibility of my colleague the Minister for Health but the smoke from it is my fault. So I am taking steps to have this difficulty overcome. Within the next week or so I should have some definite answer as to what we propose to do to overcome the disabilities around the tip area. 
There was one thing which came ringing through the speech of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  that State rights transcend human rights. The only thing that matters to members of the Opposition is that power shall be distributed to their friends. We do not have much concern for the protocols and precedents of the constitutional situation here; we are concerned with the rights of people. One of the other astonishing things was his very great admiration for the Queensland hospital system under which, I understand from what he said, some people can actually receive hospital treatment free. From what I have heard from the other honourable members opposite, this will mean that the hospitals will be flooded with Queenslanders and the hospitals will not be able to cope with the situation. I should have thought that in coming here to help the nation the honourable member would have been anxious that the principles behind that scheme - or those that shone out from his speech - would be extended to the benefit of the rest of the continent. 
Now I want to speak briefly on behalf of my colleague the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  who I hope will be back on duty next week. Those things which were raised from both sides of the chamber in referring to the Repatriation Department's estimates will be given serious consideration. The honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  had something to say about eligibility for cancer treatment. My Party campaigned for a long while on the question of eligibility for cancer treatment. I know that people in the medical profession may say, just because we cannot say what causes cancer, that there is no obligation to accept cancer as being war caused. I suppose that as a grim sort of logic one can accept that. But a long while ago we started campaigning for this eligibility when we were further back and much closer to the war. It is a belief on this side of the chamber and, I would expect, on the other side of the chamber and in the community generally that, in a situation where a serviceman is beset with one of the most grievous of illnesses, there is little room for logic; what we want is compassion and humanity. One of the first things we did on being elected to office, after campaigning for it for years, was to extend eligibility for treatment for cancer to those who had served in a theatre of war. 
The honourable member for Indi challenged that proposal. He said that it was illogical and that we should either not give it at all or we should give it to all ex-servicemen. Perhaps that is so, but our proposal is in line with the general principles upon which many of these benefits are extended; that is, they are given to people who have served in a theatre of war. This applies to the Service pension and also to tuberculosis benefits. The honourable member for Indi raised the question of what is an actual theatre of war. Perhaps it is time that we gave serious thought to the extension of these benefits right across the board to all those who had service in the forces and decided that the lines that were drawn on the map back in 1942 and 1943 were not necessarily valid. 1 shall ensure that that matter is taken up by the appropriate parts of the Government in an examination of this matter. It is also relevant to the questions raised by my honourable friend from Swan  (Mr Bennett)  who, I think, referred to a person who had served in the Merchant Navy and one who had served with the Americans. My own belief is that it is a question of service; it is not a question of where one was. It is not even a question of the quality of service as represented by rank or distinctions, but the fact that one has served. It is our objective continuously to extend repatriation benefits so that all doubts are removed. I would guess that in that objective we would have the support of honourable members from both sides of the chamber. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  raised several questions which we shall have examined. Firstly, I think that he was probably being a little unkind about the repatriation system in suggesting that rehabilitation benefits were not available and that the benefits of modern medicine were not available to the repatriation beneficiary. There is a research section of the Department which continuously examines the ways in which members receiving benefits shall be able to get better treatment. In reply to his remarks I would just pass the comment about compensation - that is of course what it is all about - that perhaps now, after almost 60 years since the foundation of the repatriation system, it is time that we started to look at compensation as having some value other than that simply of monetary return. For most people these days probably satisfactory medical treatment and services of that sort are more important than small pensions. A question was raised about the administration of the system. The repatriation system has been under continuous scrutiny since its inception. On the front page of the Repatriation Act it will be seen that there have been about 60 amendments to the Act over the years in an attempt to find a satisfactory system of administration and satisfactory rates of pension. 
The question has also been raised of what sort of pensions ought to be paid and what is meant by adjusting pensions proportionately. We were asked what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  meant when he said this in his policy speech. He mentioned that the basic compensation payments under the Repatriation Act should be given a fixed relationship to the Commonwealth minimum wage so that the special rates for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen are equal to the minimum wage, the general 100 per cent rate is equal to 50 per cent of that wage, and other pensions, rates and allowances are adjusted accordingly. In determining what proportion these should be it was considered that an increase of 25 per cent was appropriate. This was in line with the proposed increase of the special rate from $48 a week, when the Government took office, to the current minimum wage of $60.10 a week. I assure honourable members on both sides of the chamber that these matters will be examined thoroughly. I can assure honourable members that all the ideas that have been thrown into the ring on this occasion will be given much more serious consideration than has been the case in the past when this chamber has been the battleground for many ideas about repatriation but not too many initiatives have been taken by the previous Government in this regard. 
Pursuant to Section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930-1963, I present a statement of moneys received and expended during the year ended 30 June 1973 in the administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory. 
 In opposing the motion I just want to carry the arguments put forward by the Opposition to their logical extension. In the first place honourable members opposite are saying that unless somebody from the Opposition calls for a division on a constitutional amendment the vote cannot be counted. 
I have been here long enough and I have watched this kind of operation often enough to know what the Opposition is attempting to do. The facts are that, a proposal for an alteration to the Constitution having been put and the Opposition not having called for a division, honourable members opposite are therefore claming that we cannot be counted. If one takes that to its logical extreme one will say that as only the people who are opposed to the matter can call for a division, unless somebody opposing the motion calls for it there cannot be one. Let us take that to its limit. Honourable members opposite are saying that if members of this House were unanimous on a question they could not be counted because no one would be entitled to call for a division and therefore the  Speaker  would not be entitled to count them. That is arrant nonsense. That is the point honourable members opposite have put tonight. The  Speaker  is in command of the situation. There have been occasions in the past when tellers would not come forward from the opposite side, and the divisions were counted. There are ample precedents in this Parliament for that. It is the Speaker's duty to ensure that the numbers are counted in accordance with the constitutional requirement. There are Standing Orders and there is common sense. Common sense is to count them and record them. That has been done. Therefore, the  Speaker  is in order, and the dissent motion ought to be cast out. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr Enderby did say that 'A preliminary examination of housing finances disclosed that rental operations had been carried on at a loss . . .' 
It is clear that some rents are inadequate to meet costs as there has been no adjustment since 1970 despite substantial cost increases. Arrangements are in hand for accurate financial statements to be prepared and these will be published when available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The question of the cost of a funeral is a matter of private arrangement between the person providing the service and his client. However, the knowledge that a funeral benefit is payable in respect of the deceased person could inflate that cost thus defeating the purpose of the benefit. 
This seems to be a matter on which consideration by the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices would be more appropriate than a Ministerial inquiry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Until recently there has been no difficulty in obtaining supplies of adhesive gum sets for patients in Western Australia. These sets are purchased by the Department from a local agent who obtains supplies from the Australian distributor in New South Wales. 
I understand that the recent shortages are being caused by industrial disputes in New South Wales. Supplies for Western Australia have consequently been held up for approximately three weeks. 
Alternative sources of supply are available either from stocks held by the Department in other States or from other interstate contractors and can be airfreighted to Western Australia at short notice. Some stocks of adhesive gum sets are now held by the Department in Western Australia to meet immediate demands. 
If I were not normally a charitable socialist fellow I would, of course, think that my colleagues opposite were simply trying to have 2-bob each way, as the saying goes; in other words, that they would not give votes to the people of the Territories if it came to a single straight-forward vote on the issue in this place. In fact, if the Government had brought down 2 referendum Bills they would not have supported them either. But I will be kind enough today to say that perhaps they are on our side on the question of counting every Australian as being equal in this case, especially when they are not going to stand up and be counted themselves. 
This afternoon we are taking a step to integrate the people of the 2 Territories - the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory - into the Australian electorate, at least for the counting of their numbers in referendums. There can be no argument against that proposition. It is strange that we have taken so long to get around to it. I am only voicing, on behalf of the people of the Australian Capital Territory, their wish to participate in these matters. Over the last 5 or 6 weeks I have attempted, as Minister for the Capital Territory, to explain exactly why, on so many issues, the people of the Australian Capital Territory do not need to have a say. 
But one could not deny their right to be counted as a part of the Australian numbers system. Therefore this is a pretty important step. 
I hope that my colleagues opposite will not take the step of interfering with the free will of the people of Australia on some argument that the majority view of half of the States is not enough. I cannot understand it myself. I have listened to the comments of my colleagues opposite. If they were to carry their argument to its logical conclusion they would have to say that we must have a majority in every State. I heard them speak as though their hearts bleed for the Tasmanians. If in this way we were going to take away the right from one fragment of the people of Australia, surely that fragment is just as important as any other. Therefore we are back to the laws of the Medes and the Persians - the law written years ago must not be changed. Honourable members opposite ought to be moving to amend the Constitution to provide that it can be changed only by a majority of the States. Why should the Tasmanians be inflicted with the will of the other 6 million voters in Australia? Their argument is, of course, nonsense. Anything that is written in which makes it difficult to change a rule is against the general procedures of the time and, I think, a bad general principle. 
What are some of the things about which my colleagues opposite argue? Firstly, I say - I am sure that this is in the spirit of the national way of looking at it - that we are moving to a greater direct responsible attitude by the Commonwealth towards both individuals and institutions, but there is only one way in which we can do that, that is, by taking the various steps that we have initiated over the last few weeks so that the Government can deal directly with individuals and with collections of individuals gathered, as they may be, in municipalities and so on. There has been a change in the way in which the Australian Government has been associated with the government of this country. Until recently - the procedures started during the term of office of the previous Government - it was, generally speaking, the abstractions with which we dealt here at a Commonwealth level. That was certainly the case until the social services referendum of 1946. But we are now accepting direct responsibility for individuals as such. The Government must be clothed with the authority and it must have the machinery to do so. 
I cannot understand the weepings, wailings and gnashings of teeth by honourable members opposite about centralism and all the rest of it. I think that only shows how much they are living in the past. For instance, the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  had to say something about timing. He said that we are now in the position where a Constitutional Convention is under way and it is bad timing to step in now. I have listened to my friends opposite for 17 years. Before I became a member of this Parliament I suffered under them for 40-odd years. For most of my life I have been ruled by people such as they. It is never time. They would all be revolutionaries as long as the revolution is tomorrow week and not today. 
That is right. The people of Australia said it was time and the people of the electorate of Wills said emphatically, as they have been saying for years, that it was time. In politics one does what one has to do today because one knows perfectly well from one's experience that tomorrow one will be a member of the former Government if one is not careful. 
Honourable members opposite have had more recent experience than I of being members of a former government. I have no doubt that they will have a long period of time in which to learn what it is like because the citizens of Australia will become aware of the pettifoggery honourable members opposite have introduced into one of the most considerable areas of Australian activity, that is, Australia's own constitutional exercises. How on earth honourable members opposite can justify the opposition they have expressed to some of the reasonable propositions the Government has put forward in this respect in the last few weeks, I do not know. Frankly, now is the time to launch into a constitutional change. It may well be that some of the propositions put forward may not be accepted. 
It is my view that the referendum system ought to be used more emphatically and more often and that the people, if we can establish the system, ought to be consulted more regularly about matters of great moment. I would like to see it used much more effectively at local government level. We are, in fact, talcing a major democratic step in placing these ballot papers before the citizens of Australia and asking them to make judgment upon the questions. In some areas honourable members may well have doubts as to whether they would vote for the propositions put forward. I am emphatically in favour of the proposals that have been put forward in the last few weeks. Plenty of people who think about politics in the same way as I do have had doubts about some of them. But I can think of no reason whatsoever why such propositions should not be put forward. So we must proceed to do so now. 
It has been a long, slow haul since the 1890s. After listening to the remarks of my colleagues opposite, I cannot understand how we ever federated. Just imagine the arguments they would have put up 80 years ago. Just imagine the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  stepping out of the ivory towers of Toorak in 1893, as he does now. He would have said: 'Look, you cannot do that. You will be interfering with the sacred rights of us Victorians if you make us join with those people from north of the Murray'. It is one of the miracles of Australian public life, considering the fact that there are still people like that here, that 80 years ago we were able to have Constitutional Conventions and to enhance the tremendous document that is the government arrangements of Australia, as a result of the vote of the people of Australia. I just do not know why so many of them have gone down hill so far in the last few years. When one hears what they have to say one must admit that what happened is one of the astonishing exercises in Australian politics. 
Let us examine some of the other things that were asserted by honourable members on the other side of the House, particularly by the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party. They are a notable bunch of democrats. One has only to consider the way in which they have rigged every electoral boundary in Australia and how they have prevented people from voting in Legislative Council elections throughout Australia to see how they would be worried about such matters. He said that this was a direct and overt expression of the Australian Labor Party's thirst for power, or words to that effect. Those are magnificent words. Of course, they are all part of a cliche to try to stampede the people into voting no. Then he talked about the power of the States. I wonder what he meant by the word 'power'. One of the great exercises in which he and his colleagues indulge is the enshrining of the 
States of Australia as some sort of holy writ. Let us examine them and see what they are like. Let us examine, for instance, the recent return to office in New South Wales of the Liberal-Country Party Coalition. 
It was achieved without the majority of the people voting for it. If one were able to enshrine the arguments of other honourable members opposite he would have to say that that is not a true vote. Fifty-one per cent of the people of New South Wales have not said 'Let us have Askin. We will have to have other elections until we find out'. Perhaps, on their views, we should proceed until we get an absolute majority voting for somebody. But, of course, they are not going to do that. The number of times the Liberal and Country Parties of Australia have achieved an absolute majority of the votes is minimal indeed. Of course, what honourable members opposite have established is that they are more concerned with power than with people. They are continuously enshrining the State governments and even the municipal councils as having greater heart, feeling and sensitivity about people than this Commonwealth Government. The Australian government has made some great errors in the past, but in general it is based upon adult suffrage, no matter how much tinkering goes on from honourable members opposite. 
But just consider the records of the State governments and municipal councils when it comes to the arbitrary and capricious exercise of their power over people. Their bulldozers will knock streets of houses down, their governments will hang and flog, and they will rig electoral boundaries and gerrymander the whole system. Honourable members opposite cannot make any case for preserving States' rights or anything else. The operation here today is one of the continuous steps we will have to take to bring the Australian Constitution into this century. As I said at the beginning of my speech, one can only wonder at the enormous persuasive capacity of our predecessors 80 years ago who managed to convince the Australian people - I suppose there were people like honourable members opposite representing them then - to federate into one nation. This legislation represents more of the long, hard steps we must take to bring the Constitution up to date. By their argument about the majority of the States, honourable members opposite are simply enshrining dotted lines on the map as, again, some form of holy writ. To honourable members opposite, things that were drawn on the map over a century ago by the boffins of Whitehall represent more than national sentiment. So, I hope the House will vote unanimously for these procedures and that honourable members will all get out and start to work among the people of Australia to accept a national attitude towards the Australian Constitution. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and  (2)  I am advised by the Minister for Services and Property that surveys are being carried out on Tuggeranong Station, but inquiries from survey Party leaders reveal no knowledge of damage to livestock or other property on the station. I understand that no complaints have been made to the Survey Branch of the Department of Services and Property by  Mr McCormack. 
See Hansard,  23.10.73,  page  2573. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The schedule below contains a list of the  10  street intersections in Canberra which had the highest number of traffic accidents in  1972.  Statistics for  1973  will be computed after  31.12.73. 
Most of these intersections have been in existence for many years. The table provides the dates when the present traffic control facilities at each intersection were completed. The number of accidents at each intersection is given for the years  1969, 1970, 1971  and  1972.  Detailed traffic accident records are not available for earlier years. (3), (4) and (5) During the last eighteen months there have been no complaints about the intersections listed and no major reconstruction or installation of traffic lights has taken place at these intersections since December 1972. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The answer to question No. 68 appeared in Hansard of 7 November 1973 on pages 2961-2965. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to question No. 787 appeared in Hansard of 7 November 1973 on pages 2966-2967. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to question No. 788 appeared in Hansard of 7 November 1973 on page 2967. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to question No. 789 appeared in Hansard of 7 November 1973 on page 2967. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to question No. 790 appeared in Hansard of 7 November 1973 on page 2967. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to question No. 807 appeared in Hansard of 7 November 1973 on page 2968. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to question No. 1000 appeared in Hansard of 7 November 1973 on page 2969. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to question No. 1001 appeared in Hansard of 7 November 1973 on page 2969. 
It will be the day when we do something which gets the endorsement of the entire nation. However, with respect to Aboriginal people, it is true that throughout the community resentment is expressed when any group receives advantages which perhaps have been denied that group for many years. It is one of the unfortunate areas of public opinion that the public sees the Aboriginal people as receiving something to which they are not entitled when they receive something which places them on a par with the rest of the community. 
I will cite one example. It is true that Aboriginal children attending secondary school receive, without means test, an allowance from this Government. But it is true also that we do this without means test for isolated children throughout Australia, regardless of the means of their parents. So, in fact, the idea that the Aboriginal people are receiving advantages of this sort which are different from those available to the rest of the community is not true. The community is inclined to look at anything we do for the Aboriginal people and ask why they are getting it, without doing some arithmetic about their own situation. In the electorate which I represent there are people living in housing commission houses worth $16,000, $17,000 and $18,000 for which they pay $6, $7, $8, $9 or $10 aged persons means tested rent. There are very few Aboriginal people in Australia receiving that kind of capital backing for their domestic affairs. I think what we have to do, and I agree with the honourable member, is produce the arithmetic behind it all to demonstrate that in fact these advantages are not to the disadvantage of the rest of the community. 
It is also against our general policy to apply means tests in these areas. There are very few Aboriginal people who are not entitled to and need the assistance they are given. But the question of whether people who claim to be Aboriginal are in fact so is a very difficult question. I just do not know how one can define this question of race satisfactorily. The Government would be very reluctant to start to look into people's antecedents when they make claims about it. But the whole situation is under constant scrutiny, and we can only take every possible step to see that the people who need assistance get it but that we do not let resentments based upon wrong presumptions in the community slow down our program. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Questions 964 and 1057. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) A firm of chartered accountants and not the Auditor-General was appointed by the directors as auditor, for the purposes of the Australian Capital Territory Companies Ordinance 1962-1973, of Applied Ecology Pty and Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd. Consequently it is not the Auditor-General's responsibility to report on the conduct of these companies or to inspect and audit their accounts and records. 
The Auditor-General's responsibilities are limited under the Audit Act to ensuring that payments made to the companies from the Public Account have been approved by the competent authority. A similar situation exists with regard to his responsibilities under the Aboriginal Enterprises Assistance Act in respect of payments made to the companies from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. 
I might add that the Audit Act makes no provision for Ministers to request reports from the AuditorGeneral on particular matters. In accordance with that Act the Auditor-General includes in his Report to the Parliament such information as he thinks desirable in relation to those examinations and inspections carried out by him in pursuance of the provisions of the Audit Act or any other Act. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I support the initiatives currently being undertaken by the Public Service Board designed to increase the number of Aboriginals employed in the Australian Public Service and will be following with interest the progress of these proposals. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
&amp; (3) Professor Strehlow's letter of resignation made no reference to  Dr Coombs,  the Council for Aboriginal Affairs, or the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
(a) Yes. 
Professor Strehlow was appointed as a foundation member of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies in 1964. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity 
Supply Act 1962-1966, I present the tenth annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. I hope that everybody will read the report; the Authority is a socialist enterprise. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
 in reply- I thank honourable members opposite for their remarks, those who were critical and those who were not critical. This will not be a lengthy dissertation on the subject as the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is getting a bit toey at this time of the year. But I will take a few minutes to explain the situation as we found it on taking office and the direction in which we hope we are heading. First of all I wish to comment upon the remarks of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson).  It is true that there is a good deal of concern around Australia that we might be too lavish in our expenditure. I know that the honourable member does not feel like that. But it is true that the community on the whole is likely to look at the situation and say, 'What are you spending all that money on them for?', without paying much regard to the resources that are behind the average citizen in the Australian community, whether he is the citizen who has students at secondary school, the citizen who travels in an airline or the citizen who drives on the roads. Every one of us has very substantial community resources backing him. It is true that the community resources backing the Aboriginal people as individuals or communities throughout most of Australia are minimal indeed. I do not have time to go into that this afternoon but I hope to be able in the next month or two - before the House resumes - to prepare a situation study on this very subject. 
The honourable member for Mcpherson mentioned the tension that occurred between myself, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and the Queensland Government. Actually what I did have was a difference of opinion with the Premier of Queensland. As I understand it, I am not unique in that respect. In fact I got along fairly well in my personal negotiations with the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs and the head of his Department, as long as we did not get around to what one might call general principles. I found it quite easy to deal with them in relation to individual projects. In fact, they were a bit easier to deal with in some areas than my State colleagues in Victoria. There was in fact a sharp difference of opinion between myself and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  on his interpretation of our policy on the Torres Straits. I still hold the view that the point he was putting at that time was very disadvantageous to Australia. However, that is for another debate. 
This Bill seeks to make grants to the States for the purpose of Aboriginal advancement. Many of the State instrumentalities are gradually being phased out and their staffs are passing into the Australian Government system. But that does not mean that every instrumentality in Australia - Australian governmental, State municipal or private- does not have a role to fulfil. As we see it we have the task of implementing policy matters and taking them through to fruition and of stimulating other people, policing the policy and keeping it under scrutiny. In this respect I want to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  about the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. I conceived this Committee at the beginning of my regime as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I asked myself: How will I be able to get the facts and the feelings of the Aboriginal people themselves? The logical thing to do was to convene some gathering which would be representative of them, if it were possible to do so. I convened the first gathering at the beginning of the year so that we could discuss the matter. I gave them the task of deciding on the system. They appointed their own steering committee, which divided Australia into 41 districts. They set up the whole apparatus of enrolling the Aboriginal people. They set up, in conjunction with the Commonwealth Electoral Office and other authorities, the machinery for carrying out the election. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory said that the election was carried out with undue haste. Actually most of us involved in it were regretful that it seemed to take so long, although one has only to look at the map and consider the geographical situation to appreciate what an enormous task it was. But the major proportion of the work - the administrative exercise - was arranged by the Aboriginal people themselves. Aboriginal members of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and casual employees were involved in enrolling people. At one stage over 2S0 people were involved in this exercise. Somewhere between 38,000 and 40,000 Aboriginal people in Australia enrolled. Nothing like that figure voted. There were 192 -candidates. I take up the point made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory that those people are not necessarily representative. That is true enough. There are large areas of Australia in which the simple electoral system will not produce a person representative of the Aboriginal people. The next step is to find the apparatus by which we can do that. There have been many attacks upon this Committee. I presume that one can expect attacks in any operation of this nature. There have always been advisory bodies of various sorts. These 41 people are to be the eyes and the ears of the Minister. It will be their job to be on the ground, finding out what the Aboriginal people need and reporting continuously on their situation. After long deliberation it was decided that they should receive a salary so that in fact they would be working full-time and would be free of other duties. 
We recognise that this is a fairly adventurous undertaking and that, with the Committee not being inside the apparatus of the Public Service, there are certain disciplinary matters that cannot prevail. But we believe that this is the way it must go. At least there will be 41 Aboriginal people on the ground, working for their people as their direct representatives. Every effort will be made to give them full support and to guarantee that they have the capacity to carry out their duties. None of us in this place have any way by which we can give any guarantees about how representative duties will be carried out. But the Government regards this as a very important operation and I hope that as time goes on we will be able to report continuously to the Parliament on its operations. As the body will meet in this city, we make take the opportunity to have a major meeting between the members of this Parliament and the Aboriginal people. The people elected will be Aboriginals from across the board socially. There will be conservative people and radical people. I hope that there are a number of women amongst them. There certainly will be some people who are basically tribal. 
I always go wherever I can. Honourable members on the other side of the House asked several questions which I should like to answer. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  raised the question of the supervision of expenditure and asked for more information. There are 18 pages of simple statements in regard to the organisations in the States to which the money has gone and the areas to which it has gone. I suppose that we could prepare a number of details on each of these instances, but I will refer to just two or three of them now. 
Firstly, in relation to the matter of supervision, my friend the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  referred to the question of States grants. That is simple enough; it is the States' duty although it is our responsibility. In the case of non-government organisations, supervision is difficult; but we have instituted procedures by which there can be an internal audit which will provide some supervision without a big brother approach. It is a difficult task, but all the allocations were made in good faith and were based upon a pretty close scrutiny of the situation. Everything that came to me - in the end, I suppose, my signature was on a good number of those things - was scrutinised pretty closely OUt of my own experience of public affairs, out of my very close regard for money and what one ought to be able to do with it and also, I expect, out of a long experience in Aboriginal affairs and of many of the people whom I knew. I can say only that in relation to supervision of expenditure. 
The honourable member for Herbert raised the matter of the Glenairy-Sunnyside properties which adjoin the Cummeragunga properties which were acquired years ago and on which we established a co-operative undertaking some 8 years or 10 years ago. This project is one of those that are prospering. It comprises several very fine properties which, added together, will give the project a great deal of viability. I know that when I visited the project some months ago, I took some pride in the fact that I could look at those rolling pastures and the sleek cattle as one of those who had been responsible for the project initially, before it became a government supported enterprise. 
The honourable member for Herbert also referred to the purchase of property for an Aboriginal club. He raised the necessity for community centres. From the figure the honourable member quoted, I think he probably was referring to the establishment in Sydney in which basically a club facility is being created which will include an administrative centre for the Aboriginal organisations there. The question of the caravans at Redlynch near Cairns also was raised. One of the members of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Reg  Saunders, visited Redlynch and saw on an acre or so of ground the normal miserable shanties. He conceived the idea of replacing those with caravans, with the idea that eventually the people would be rehoused in a proper way. There was no doubt in my mind, when I visited Redlynch, that this project was a complete revolution and that it was a simple and most direct way of housing the people there. Of course, we will not leave the caravans there forever. This is one of those spots where probably there are more people wanting to live on the piece of real estate than is feasible. So, right across the board, this is the way things are being done. 
The honourable member mentioned places such as Ernabella and Yanderarra. Again, these are places where there are long established Aboriginal communities which I hope now are receiving adequate support. Take for example the Yanderarra station, as it now is, south of Port Hedland. The Western Australian Government handed over that property to the Aboriginal community, which was formerly a part of  Mr McLeod's  group, and when I was their earlier in the year they had collected something like $24,000 or $30,000 in income from the cattle project. The question of the legal service was raised. The legal service has been established right across Australia. Legal services are expensive, but all the money which has been allocated for this purpose has not been spent - not by a long shot. The honourable member for Herbert raised the question of the Aboriginal situation in Tasmania. It is a fact that there is quite a community of Aboriginals in Tasmania and, like all Aboriginal people in Australia, they are likely to be victims of the law, even in places where the police are sympathetic. They are most helpless before the courts. We feel that the legal service is one of the major enterprises we have established. 
There are just one or two other questions which I wanted to answer. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  mentioned that the Government was providing to the Aborigines an amount of  $  1,000 a head. This is true enough; but, if one takes a simple demonstration of what it means, one can see that the allocations are not unduly lavish. For instance, Palm Island has 1,600 people. We have allotted $375,000 for the water supply and $200,000 for sewerage. That represents a sum of about $3,500 a head for the normal facilities of that Island. Of course, in large areas many people do not receive anything like $1,000 a head, whilst many are capitalised at more than the figure of $1,000. 
During the course of my ministry I avoided, as much as I could, any idea of recrimination against my predecessors. We all have to inherit things from the past and I feel that this Government inherited some very substantial obstacles. In the past few months there has been a good deal of consideration and criticism of the turtle farming project in the Torres Strait, and this has been true enough. My colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar, initiated this as a research project. My own view is that it expanded too rapidly. 
The former Minister,  Mr Howson,  at one stage said on television that he had kept the project under strict control and that only $30,000 had been spent during the previous Government's time in office. In fact, in 1970-71, $27,730 was spent; in 1971-72, $117,000 was spent; and, in the 1972-73 Budget, $250,000 was provided for and that amount was handed over shortly after I became the Minister. So, in fact, something like $394,000 was budgeted for in relation to this project during the previous Government's regime. So, we all must accept responsibility for the project. The previous Government had the responsibility for initiating it and my responsibility was to try to make it work. I am certain that the steps we have taken will do that. It will not be easy, but it was an adventurous project and the fact that errors have been made is something that we will have to overcome. 
There are other matters from the past to which I could refer but which I will leave for the sake of peace and quiet. I aim grateful for the remarks that honourable members on both sides have made. I know that there are sharp differences of opinion on what should and should not be done; but, generally speaking, at least in Aboriginal affairs, we have arrived basically at a bipartisan policy. If we can continue that, perhaps we will remove this blot from the Australian scene. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommendation appropriation announced. 
I have not had the particular statement brought to my notice but it is one of the sad facts of Australian life that people do magnify the benefits that are being paid to Aborigines beyond all belief. The facts are that they receive the same benefits as the rest of the people in Australia and this has come about only after a long struggle in which, of course, honourable members on the other side participated to see that they received benefits. There are still some parts of Australia where for various reasons Aborigines do not receive the full benefits available to the rest of the community and there are some advantages, such as the secondary school allowances, which are payable to Aboriginal children and only to selected groups of non-Aboriginal children. But basically the Aboriginal people of Australia have a fair way to go yet before they receive the same services as do the rest of the community, particularly where they live in isolated places. As I have said before, I suppose it is our duty to produce for the average citizen some statistical base upon which people can do arithmetic relating to this matter but I hope that all honourable members will take part in refuting the view that the Aboriginal people of Australia are living on a handout system. They are not. They are receiving basically what they are entitled to receive as Australians and in many parts of Australia it is difficult to ensure that they receive that. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
16 January 1973. 
Yes. 
See answer to (2). 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The 'Yung Yuan' No. 21 has been sailed to Maryborough. 
That of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, with the approval of the Department of Transport. 
Captain S. Benson, Pilot Sadler,  Mr N.  Quoin,  Mr N.  Blights,  Mr T.  David,  Mr H.  Garner,  Mr S.  Benfield,  Mr P.  Savige,  Mr G.  Toby,  Mr S.  Horea,  Mr S.  Rattler,  Mr T.  Loban,  Mr G.  Nenidie. 
The Australian Government through funds allocated to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Captain Benson was at the time Marine Consultant to the Minister, and was in receipt of a retainer of $100 per month plus $35 per day. The crew members were paid $200 each. The pilot's fees were $1,780. 
The vessel left Darwin at 5.45 p.m. on 23 July and arrived at Maryborough on 4 August. 
Defence Forces: Assistance in Fire Prevention  (Question No. 1262) 
The Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 

 Mr and Mrs King have made representations to me and, as a result of investigations made by my Department, I wrote to the then Minister for Youth and Community Welfare in New South Wales, the Honourable J. L. Waddy, seeking his assistance in this matter. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Since November . 1971, the Aboriginal population resident at Kildurk has varied between 19 and 40 depending on the availability of work on nearby stations. Up to ten language groups have been identified in recent censuses carried out by my Department. My Department has arranged a meeting of Aboriginals having association with Kildurk to take place from 19 to 22 November, in order to complete arrangements for participation in the project. 
To take advantage of the property being on the market, the Mialuni Pastoral Company Pty Ltd was incorporated and a grant of $829,000 was provided on the understanding that the funding arrangements would be adjusted on the basis of $233,755 loan and $595,245 grant. This loan and grant composition was determined on the basis of the station's capacity to service a debt over a notional 25 years repayment term at interest rates of1½ per cent per annum for the first $20,000 and 5 per cent per annum for the balance ($213,755). 
The moneys were advanced to the Australian Agricultural Consulting and Management Company Pty Ltd as trustees for the Mialuni Pastoral Company Pty Ltd. The consultant firm acted for the Department in the purchase of the property and has subsequently been engaged to provide management services to the project. When the composition of the MialuniPastoral Company Pty Ltd is finalised, the Company will take control of the funds in association with the consultants. 
There is an Aboriginal community of some 160 people of Walbiri language group resident on Willowra Station. The numbers of Aboriginals participating in the venture as share holders and as employees is a matter for the Company. The level of employment will vary according to the seasonal demands of the cattle enterprises and, conceivably, as a result of changes in Company policy in relation to the type of operation to be adopted. 
Willowra Station was purchased on a 'walkinwalkout' basis for $350,795. Additional funds of $168,705 have been provided to enable the implementation of a recommended development program, making total funds provided $519,500. These funds have been allocated by way of $223,500 grant and $296,000 loan, the loan figure being determined on the basis of project's estimated capacity to service loan funds over a notional 25 years repayment term, at interest rates of1½ per cent per annum for the first $20,000 and 5 per cent per annum for the balance ($276,000). 
$325,000 was advanced to an Alice Springs firm of solicitors acting for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Aboriginal community in the purchase of Willowra. The balance has been provided direct to the Willowra Pastoral Company Pty Ltd. The company's bank account will be operated by Aboriginal signatories, in conjunction with a cattle adviser appointed by the Australian Agricultural Consulting and Management Company Pty Ltd. 
Department of the Treasury: Interdepartmental Committees  (Question No. 1065) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
My predecessor subsequently wrote to the Victorian Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Dickie)  requesting that the Victorian Government maintain administrative responsibility for Aboriginal housing. 
Discussions with a number of States is continuing and I hope that it will be possible to conclude these in time to ensure that the Australian Government can assume responsibility for Aboriginal affairs in a number of States by1 December. 
Arrangements for the Australian Government to assume State responsibilities for the policy planning and co-ordination of Aboriginal programs provide for the staff at present employed by the relevant State authorities to transfer to the Australian Public Service if they wish. To facilitate this, the Public Service Board has approved an appropriate organisation for the State offices of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and this organisation is expected to be substantially filled with officers transferring from the State Public Services and additional officers now being recruited. My Department expects to be sufficiently staffed and equipped to assume responsibility for Aboriginal affairs as transfers are accepted in various States. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Council for Aboriginal Affairs was not, as stated in the Question, established to advise on Aboriginal opinion. Its functions were outlined by the late  Mr Holt  in his statement to the House of Representatives on 2 November 1967. 
At the request of successive Ministers and of the former Office of Aboriginal Affairs the Council assisted in the process of consultation. However, with the establishment of the interim National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, the Council has largely withdrawn from the field of consultations. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer  to the  honourable member's question: &lt;l) Yes. 
Reports from the Aboriginal Legal Service in Redfern suggest that this may be the case. 
All but one of those charged with drunkenness forfeited the bail of SI. The only drunkenness charge defended was that against  Mr Gary  Williams. The charge against him was dismissed in Court on 22 November. One of the persons charged claimed to be a teetotaller. 
and (5) I have received representations from Aboriginals in the area who allege that on several occasions wholesale arrests of Aboriginals have occurred. Because I am concerned about allegations, which appear to have some foundation, of police discrimination against Aboriginals in Redfern, I discussed these reports with  Mr Maddison,  the New South Wales Minister for Justice, on 9 November.  Mr Maddison  has undertaken to write to Aboriginal organisations in Sydney inviting them to a monthly conference with one of his officers. 
Western Australian Industrial Commission: Preference Clauses in Awards  (Question No. 1318)  Mr Bennett  asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to Western Australian industrial law, adopting preference to unionists clauses in State awards, which was introduced by previous State Liberal Governments. 
If so, will the Minister investigate these clauses with a view to adopting the principles involved as employment criteria for staff at Repatriation hospitals when first employed. 
Will this action overcome industrial confrontations over union membership. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are two committees established to screen applications for financial assistance to Aboriginals and Aboriginal communities. The first was established by the honourable W. C. Wentworth as MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs in 1969. It provides the Minister with advice on applications for assistance from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. The Advisory Committee consists of  Dr H.  C. Coombs (committee  chairman), Mr R.  S. Elliott (General Manager, Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia) and  Mr J.  H. Garrett  (Deputy Secretary, Department of Treasury).  The establishment of the second committee, the Grants Review Committee was announced by me on 7 November 1973. It provides me with advice on disbursement of grants for Aboriginal community purposes from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. It is an internal departmental committee and, as such, it would not be appropriate for Treasury to be represented on it. As the function of the Auditor-General's Office in this instance is one of review and examination of expenditure, it would not be appropriate for that office to be represented on either of the above committees. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Willowra Station was valued at $320,400 by the Valuer General prior to purchase. 
Kildurk Station was valued for the Australian Government by a firm of pastoral consultants prior to purchase. The consultants' valuation of the property was $919,000. The purchase of these properties was funded by the Australian Government with grants and loan assistance from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
See answer to (1). 
This list has always been available to the Minister and will continue to be so available. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
I have informed the Pallotine Mission that I have not approved its application for a grant to enable it to extend its existing youth hostel. I have also informed the Mission of the reasons for ihis decision which are, basically, that 
a survey of hostel accommodation for young Aboriginals in Perth conducted by the Western Australian Director of Community Welfare has shown that there is sufficient Aboriginal hostel accommodation either currently available or already planned in Perth for the present need and 
the interests of the children and the communities in which they live will be best served if the Australian Government directs its funds towards improving and extending schools and educational facilities in 'remote' towns, and establishing hostels in these areas where necessary. This will result in fewer Aboriginal children having to leave home to attend school, and those who must still live away from home will at least be within easier reach of their families. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs hasprovided  the  following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No, but matters of Aboriginal customary law may be relevant in particular cases in which the Aboriginal Legal Services provide assistance. 
Book Prices in Australia  (Question No.  1343) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) No statistics are available, either on the number of Aboriginals from Yirrkala who drink occasionally or regularly, or on the numbers of these who might be judged to be 'problem drinkers'. It is believed that about one in four of adult males drink liquor but not all of these could be considered 'problem drinkers'. The majority of Aboriginals who drink are young men. 
The situation is under constant review by the regional staff of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, but any effective solution to such community problems as may be associated with alcohol must originate within the community. I am informed that the Yirrkala community has appointed people from within the community who have the responsibility of implementing community rules in relation to alcohol. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
Yes. 
The hotel at Nhulunbuy is properly licensed and serves the community at Nhulunbuy of approximately 5,000 people as well as the Aboriginal community at Yirrkala some 14 miles away. Its continued operation is at present a matter for the hotel management and the Northern Territory Licensing Court. 
The Yirrkala community is being given advice and assistance in working out plans for its future. Several grants have recently been approved to assist groups at Yirrkala in establishing satellite communities in their traditional lands where they wish to do so. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Glenairy and Sunnyside project was supported by way of grant from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account to a community enterprise, Cummeragunga Pty Ltd which then purchased the property. The level of the grant was determined on the basis of a feasibility study and valuation carried out by a leading private firm of management consultants. The consultants' valuation was $125,000. No Australian Government valuation was obtained. 
As the Queensland Valuer General had already carried out a valuation of the Baptist Theological College, Hill End, Brisbane before the property was purchased by Aboriginal Hostels Ltd, it was not considered necessary to obtain an Australian Government valuation. The Queensland Valuer General's valuation was $217,000. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The text of the cress announcement which I authorised is as follows: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  announced today that the Permanent Head of his Department,  Mr Barrie  Dexter, had established within the Department a Grants Review Committee. The Committee was composed of all Second Division Officers in the Head Office in Canberra and had the task of examining all proposals for grants from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account before draft recommendations to the Minister were placed before the Secretary of the Department. 

 Senator Cavanagh said that it was expected that through this Committee it would be possible to ensure that the interests of all Head Office Divisions and Branches were taken into account and consistency maintained in relation to recommendations for grants from the Trust Account.  Senator Cavanagh  added that he was still considering the establishment of an all-party Parliamentary Committee to assist him in considering recommendations for grants from the Trust Account, but it was unlikely that any such Committee could be established before the next Session of Parliament. 
The statement related principally to the estab lishment of a committee of departmental officers. It referred also to consideration being given tothe establishment of an all-party Parliamentary, Committee, as foreshadowed by me in my statement in the Senate on 25 October 1973. When and if such a Parliamentary Committee is established, I will ensure that its establishment is announced in both houses of Parliament. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
It is expected that the Perth market will take approximately 20 per cent of the melon production in 1973/74 and that the majority of the remainder will go to Sydney and Melbourne with a small proportion to Adelaide. 
and (c) The project manager and the consultant for the project is A.A.C.M.- B.R.M. This firm comprises the Western Australian Division of Australian Agricultural Consulting and Management Co. Pty Ltd operating in conjunction with Bird Rural Management Pty Ltd. 
Consultants employed by these two groups have been operating in South Australia and Western Australia as general agricultural, pastoral and farm management consultants for the past 12 to 13 years. The project  is  the specific responsibility of  Mr G.  M. Giles of A.A.C.M. - B.R.M.  Mr Giles  has a degree in Agricultural Science and a Post Graduate Diploma in Farm Management. 
Specific technical assistance as required is provided by the staff of the Horticultural Division of the Western Australian Department of Agriculture. 
and (e) The Nangganwili Community Incorporated, representing the Wiluna Aboriginal community, will hold the shares in the operating company which will conduct the melon (cantelope) and citrus orchard venture. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
to (4) My predecessor, the honourable Gordon Bryant, approved negotiations for the purchase of Mount Minnie Station, but, before negotiations could be completed, the vendors of the property withdrew the property from sale. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of the Capital Territory is aware of reports of loss of livestock being experienced by rural landholders in the A.C.T. Over the years the Department's) rangers have co-operated with landholders and reported such losses and incidents to the A.C.T. Police who are responsible for taking action against thieves and vandals. 
The Attorney-General has advised that the A.C.T. Police have patrolled the rural areas regularly for many years. The Police so engaged have been selected for their interest in stock and rural problems and their capacity to investigate offences in rural areas. The patrols carried out by day and night as necessity indicates are supplemented by experienced detectives from the Criminal Investigation Division. There is liaison between the A.C.T. Police and the New South Wales Police stationed in areas immediately outside the Australian Capital Territory. There is a continuing exchange of information in respect to thefts of stock, indiscriminate shooting and kindred offences. 
These arrangements will continue. 
So far as the damage alleged to be caused by workmen on the Tuggeranong project is concerned, the Minister for Services and Property advises that the rights of rural landholders are respected. The Survey Branch of the Department of Services and Property, in co-operation with the Department of the Capital Territory, follows long standing procedures for entry by survey parties upon freehold or leasehold properties. Arrangements for access are made through the Department of the Capital Territory after the landholder has been informed of the impending survey. Personal contact is normally made with the lessee or owner at the commencement of the survey to give further details of proposed movements, type of marks being placed and other relevant matters. 
Survey parties are asked to ensure that minimum inconvenience is caused to landholders and at all times to respect the property - stock, fences, crops,  gates, pastures etc. The rule on gates is to leave them as found. 
In addition my colleague, the Minister of Urban and Regional Development has assured me that when the National Capital Development Commission, or its agents wishes to inspect any land, which is either occupied on agistment or is held under lease, prior request for permission to enter is made to the Land Administration Branch, Department of the Capital Territory. Such requests clearly identify the land to be entered, and the date, duration and reason for the required entry is stated. An officer of the Department of the Capital Territory accompanies the inspection party to make the initial introduction to the landholder. 
When the National Capital Development Commission, or its agents, wishes to carry out trial holes, soil tests or backhoe trenching on reserves, or land which is) either occupied on agistment or which may still be held under lease, prior request to enter and carry out such work is made in writing and permission obtained. These requests, as for site inspections, identify the land to be entered and state the date and duration for the required entry. 
Australian Council for the Arts: Literature Board  (Question No. 1436) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The project for redeveloping Wreck Bay is currently being discussed by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of the Capital Territory. 
I will advise the honourable member as soon as the plans for the project are finalised. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wishes to know the composition and function of any particular 
Interdepartmental Committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further Question Without Notice on this subject on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answers to Question Nos. 964 and 1057 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As I stated in the Senate on  23  October the Council for Aboriginal Affairs has not had any meetings of a formal nature which involved the keeping of minutes since March  1973.  It has, however, continued to meet informally as the situation demanded and has prepared a number of papers and submissions for the Minister and Parliamentary Committees. I am informed that much of its work since its inception in  1967  has been of an informal nature, either by way of meetings or, when these were not possible, by correspondence. 
and  (3)  Dr Coombs  has not, as is suggested in the question, been 'taking decisions'. The Council is a purely advisory body and as I stated in the Senate on 23  October it has at no time had power to spend money. During the period from March to my own appointment as Minister and thereafter,  Dr Coombs,  as  Chairman  of the Council, proffered advice to the Minister and to the Secretary of the Department. On particular issues referred to him by the Prime Minister, he also provided advice either as  Chairman  of the Council or as consultant to the Prime Minister. When he advised the Prime Minister as  Chairman  of the Council, he also informed the then Minister of the nature of that advice. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (l)-(5) The vessel Yung Yuan is at Maryborough awaiting a decision as to her future use. 
No. 
See answer to  (6). 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. To cover equipment costs and operational expenses in 1973/74. 
$15,700 was approved, of which $9,800 has been paid to the Club. (3 Yes. 
The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable Gordon M. Bryant. 
(6) and (7) None of the defendents was convicted on charges of stealing. Michael Joseph Hogan (non-Aboriginal) was convicted on charges of false pretences, Trevor Lee (non-Aboriginal) on charges of being directly knowingly concerned in false pretences and William Clancy Booth (Aboriginal) of being indirectly knowingly concerned in false pretences. The defence counsel is reported to have said that 'the crime had been made easy for them all along the line in the way the Government had sent the cheque and the way the bank cashed it.' The cheque was sent te the secretary of the Club at the Club premises in Brisbane. It was taken from there by Trevor Lee, acting as caretaker of the Club, before the secretary could collect it. Non-receipt of the cheque was reported immediately by the Club treasurer, and payment of the cheque was stopped by officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs before the cheque was negotiated by the bank. The Australian Government therefore suffered no financial loss or wastage of money from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account as a result of the cheque being negotiated. 
Qantas Airways Ltd: Operations in Fiji  (Question No.  1327) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Three Ministers were allocated flats on a priority basis this year at regular rental levels which were less than $20 per week. None have been allocated to Ministerial staff on a priority basis this year; but it is possible that some Ministerial staff may occupy Government flats through the normal waiting list. 
Ministers are charged the same rentals as other tenants. The existing rent formula includes a subsidy to the extent of 20 per cent of the capital cost of the buildings. 
The Member will be in receipt of my letter to all Members of the Parliament asking for suggestions and ideas on accommodation. 
There is no policy to do so at present. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The answer to part (1) of Question 1000 indicated that the Aboriginal Legal Aid Services were established to provide legal advice and representation for Aboriginals. The detailed arrangements under which the individual Aboriginal Legal Aid Services in the States and the Northern Territory operate were discussed and agreed upon at a conference in Canberra on 9 April 1973. These are as follows: 
Each Service will be responsible for the provision of the facility, in its State or Territory but may make arrangements with Services in other places to avoid problems arising from geographical boundaries. 
Each Service is to have flexibility in its development, to meet the needs of Aboriginals who stand in need of legal assistance. The facilities are to include, as funds permit, arrangements with legal practitioners in private practice for representing applicants in individual cases, with legal practitioners on a retainer basis where the usual arrangements for individual cases cannot readily be made, the direct employment of legal practitioners, field workers, social workers and administrative staff. In the latter three cases preference will be given to Aboriginals or to those persons who show an affinity with Aboriginals. Research assistance into the special legal problems of Aboriginals and the provision of publicity and relevant educational activities directed to Aboriginals and persons or groups who deal with Aboriginals is also envisaged. 
'Aboriginal' means a person who stands in need of legal assistance and who is a member or descendant of the Aboriginal race. It includes Torres Strait Islanders and, where it is in the interests of justice in the circumstances of a particular case, includes a person who lives in a domestic relationship with an Aboriginal. 
Legal assistance to Aboriginals is to be available for: 
repesentation in courts and tribunals throughout Australia where the Aboriginal has grounds for such representation; 
advice on matters in which the Aboriginal has or is likely to have a direct interest, whether personally or as a member of a group; 
assistance in non-contentious matters where there is likely to be of direct benefit to the Aboriginal. 
Restrictions - 
Legal assistance, other than to ascertain if the Aboriginal has reasonable prospects, of success, shall not be available in respect of proceedings by way of appeal if in the view of the Service no good purpose would be served by prosecuting or taking part in the appeal; 
actions to be taken on behalf of an Aboriginal community or a substantial Aboriginal group will be considered on an individual basis by the Australian Government following an approach by a Service. 
The affairs of an Aboriginal in relation to the Service shall be kept confidential. 
Each Service shall keep its accounts in a form or forms approved by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs so as to show: 
sums received from the Australian Government and from other sources for the operation of the Service; 
the cost of legal expenses in operating the Service; 
the other costs of administration of the Service; 
Each Service shall have its books and records audited by a qualified auditor. 
The financial year of each Service shall run from 1 January to 3 1 December. 
An annual report of its operation shall be supplied by each Service as soon as possible after the end of the financial year to the National Co-Ordinating Committee for Aboriginal Legal Services, for transmission to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
Fees payable to legal practitioners in private practice will be subject to a reduction of 20 per cent of normal solicitor and client costs. Reasonable disbursements will be paid in full. 
In all matters an Aboriginal who is reasonably able to make some contribution towards the expense of his legal assistance may be required to do so. 
Legal assistance may be cancelled where it appears that the Aboriginal is no longer in need of assistance or that further expense on his matter is no longer justified. 
Applications for assistance shall be made in such form or manner as the Service may accept in the circumstances of the Aboriginal and his case. 
Payment of claims for legal costs without prior application may be made to legal practitioners for amounts not exceeding $50.00 in a summary matter or $100.00 in a Superior Court matter where it appears that it was not practicable to make application before the event or where the expense of making such an application did not at the time appear to be justified. 
Each Service may reimburse existing facilities for the provision of Legal Aid to Aborigines at the rate of the cost to that facility of assisting the Aboriginal in a particular matter, plus a amount equal to the estimated cost of administration by the facility of that matter not exceeding 5 per cent of the legal account. 
Each Service may delegate to persons on terms its powers of approving applications for assistance or claims made without prior application and of requests for expenses of an unusual or unduly expensive nature in a matter. 
There shall be a National Co-Ordinating Committee for Aboriginal Legal Services with duties and membership to be determined. Its duties will include: 
making recommendations on budgeted claims to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for grants from the Australian Government; 
acting as a liaising body to assist each Service with inter-State arrangements and to work to a national level of Legal Assistance to Aborigines; 
determining in co-operation with the Services, guide lines and priorities for the scope and availability of Legal Services as funds permit. 
No. 
Section 10 of the Social Welfare Ordinance provides that it is the duty of the Director of Social Welfare, inter alia, to provide such assistance as in his opinion may be necessary or appropriate to promote the physical well-being of persons who, in his opinion, are socially or economically in need of assistance, and to exercise general care in matters affecting their welfare. In pursuance of these duties, the Director made arrangements for  Mr and 'Mrs Brown  to foster the child. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated cost of litter collection in the A.C.T. for the year 1973-74 is $290,000 made up as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The major unleased areas of Government land (excluding roads, hill reserves, playing fields and suburban parks in the City area) are: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information required is set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tentative Territorial Account for the Australian Capital Territory for the financial year 1971- 72 included payroll tax for the first time. 
As the power to levy payroll tax was transferred from the Commonwealth to the States on 1 October 1971 the amount included in the Tentative Territorial Account was intended to disclose the revenue collections for the period 1 October 1971 to 30 June 1972. 
The amount was, in fact, understated by $455,569 being payroll tax for this period paid in New South Wales on behalf of Australian Capital Territory taxpayers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The sources of cost details and the procedure followed in determining the value of assets, were as follows: 
sources of cost details: 
the valuation of assets and capital works in existence at 30/6/64 by  Mr L.  M. Graham,* 
annual and monthly returns of completed works submitted to this Department by N.C.D.C., 
annual statements of expenditure in the Australian Capital Territory prepared by Department of Works, 
appropriation records of expenditure on new works by Department of the Interior; 
procedure followed: 
projects completed before 1/7/64  -  costs were extracted from the report prepared by the consultant and further depreciated over the period 1/7/64 to 30/6/69 in accordance with the rates of depreciation suggested by the consultant, 
projects completed after 1/7/64  -  the. cost of the projects was made up of the basic contract cost, administrative oncosts, fees and interest on work-in-progress up to the date of completion of the project and then depreciated over the depreciation periods suggested by the consultant 
* Consultant engineer engaged for specific purpose of valuing municipal assets. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw his attention to a comprehensive statement made by my predecessor on 27 September 1973 on land and housing in the Australian Capital Territory. The conditions detailed in that statement relating to the granting of residential leases still apply and can be summarised as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commissioner for Housing loans  are  available  to  applicants who are able to pass a needs  test  subject to the following qualifications: 
Applicants must be married,  engaged to be  married or  in  the case  of  single individuals obliged to provide accommodation  for dependants. 
Loans  are  not available  to  applicants  who are not  employed  in the A.C.T. 
Generally applicants have been required to contribute at least 10 per cent of the cost of the project from their own funds and demonstrate their ability to repay the loan. The required contribution is under review. 
A  person  who owns a house or whose spouse owns a  house  is ineligible. 
Persons who have received previous financial assistance or whose spouses have received previous financial . assistance from Government funds for housing in the A.C.T. are ineligible. This would include persons who had received in the - A.C.T. a Commissioner for Housing loan, a loan from Government funds advanced to co-operative building societies, a War Service (now Defence Services) Homes loan or who had purchased a Government house on terms. 
Under the needs test applied up to December 1973 loans would not generally be approved in cases where: 
Applicants are eligible for Defence Services Homes loans, 
The proposed purchase price of the property or of the cost of the land plus the proposed cost of erecting a dwelling exceeds $30,000; or 
Assets held by applicants are substantial. 
However factors such as income, size of family and financial commitments are taken into account. 
The availability of loans is in all cases subject to funds being available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A loan was approved for purchase of a secondhand house costing $31,500 on 12 October 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The form of the Municipal Accounts for Canberra and the question of their audit is the subject of current correspondence with the Treasurer. 
I have proposed that the form of the accounts should be formally approved by the Treasurer and that the accounts be subject to audit. It is not intended that the audit will cover past years' accounts. 
Regarding the Territorial Account the published documents explain that the account was prepared principally to assist the current inquiry by the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the A.C.T. and to allow informed public debate on the question of state-type costs and revenues. It is not intended that the Territorial Account be audited. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eight proposals have been received from charitable institutions, churches and other bodies which wish to take part in the scheme wherein sites will be made available in Canberra free of charge for the purpose of building homes for the aged. 
The names of the organisations are: The Presbyterian Church; The Society of St Vincent de Paul; The Masonic Homes for the Aged; The Goodwin Homes; The Methodist Church; The Hibernian Society; The Rotary Club of Canberra-Woden; and The Southern Cross Homes Incorporated. 
Sites have been selected for the first four as follows: The Presbyterian Church - Block 1 Section 23 Braddon; The Society of St Vincent de Paul - Block 30 Section 9 Hughes; The Masonic Homes for the Aged - Block 75 Section 14 Pearce; and The Goodwin Homes - Section 7 Farrer. 
Negotiations are still proceeding relating to the grant of leases for these sites and sites for the other bodies are expected to be selected shortly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question: is as follows: 
1,380. 
$11,643. 
The profit on sale during 1971-72 is not readily available but when it is, I will pass it to the honourable member. 
I will have to get the honourable member to repeat his question. (Opposition members interjecting). 
If honourable members opposite had paid their own colleague the courtesy of being quiet while he asked the question I could have listened to it. Would he please repeat the question? 
I heard yesterday, I think following question time in another place, of the suggestions or allegations - whatever they were - that the gun was loaded. I have had no discussions with anybody either of the courts or the police on the matter. They do not come within my jurisdiction. I do not propose to hold any discussions of that kind. I believe that the machinery which exists and which has been put in motion is quite adequate to handle the situation. 
No. 
No. The report to the report may well be wrong and I think it would be most appropriate for the Public Accounts Committee to examine it. Firstly, Ministers do not have money to spend. Secondly, the normal procedures are that propositions are put to Ministers and they agree or disagree with them. They are then submitted to the Department and the normal procedures of implementing decisions are carried out there. As far as I can recall, that was the procedure followed in regard to any decision I made during the course of my responsibility as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The short answer to the first question is no. 
One of the great disabilities of being a Minister in this Government is that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  will not let you speak. But I will pass a few remarks in this instance. First of all, I think it is important for us to regularise the way in which we meet and the way in which wc close. My own view remains as it always was - that 11 p.m. is much too late and we ought to knock off each day at 10 p.m. In this instance I support my colleague the Leader of the House in the march towards regularising the way in which we meet and the relationships between us. I sympathise completely with the comments by my friend the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  about debating time and so on in this Parliament. Shortly we hope to bring forward the report of the Standing Orders Committee and it will initiate a thorough examination of the way we go about our business. It seems to me on the arithmetic that it is almost impossible for us to carry out the 2 projects that are important to Parliament; that is, letting the voice of the representatives be heard and an examination of the legislation take place. We may well have to reconsider the way in which we meet in committee and so on. This is simply a step towards getting things regularised so that we knock off at a reasonable time and so that we know that the adjournment debate will be held at a regular time. I also think it might be well worth while to examine the question of whether we should reduce the speaking time for each participant in the adjournment debate to perhaps a short period of four or five minutes. I support the Leader of the House. 
 I move: 
That a Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs be appointed to inquire into and report on matters referred to it by resolution of the House, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or by motion of the committee within the following terms: 
to consult with Aboriginal and Island people on policies and programs for their advancement; 
to examine the present situation of Aboriginal and Island people, recommend policies for improvements; and 
evaluate the effect of policies and pr /ams on Aboriginal and Island people. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their cooperation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of nine members, five to be nominated by the Prime Minister, three to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the Sneaker. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That five members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitutes a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess or adjournment. 
That the committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and have power, with the approval of the  Speaker,  to appoint persons with specialist knowledge for the purposes of the committee. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the minutes of evidence and records of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs appointed in the first session of the twenty-eighth Parliament. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the committee shall be empowered to confer with a similar committee of the Senate. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
This motion seeks simply to revive or reestablish the Committee which operated in the last session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  was courteous enough to advise me that he would raise this terribly tangled problem of parking around Parliament House. It is true that people have been receiving parking tickets. The situation is that the ordinances are, of course, my responsibility. Howeverr, the actual parking control is in the hands of officers of this Parliament, who in other words act as agents for the Department of the Capital Territory in that regard. I am going to do several things. I am going to check to see whether I will be inside my rights under the relevant ordinance to have an amnesty on those people who have received parking tickets. I am going to see if it is possible to do something about the Camp Hill site. Specifically, I will see whether it is possible to put lighting on it because it seems to me that for the time being we are certainly going to need extra parking space. 
One of the problems about the illegality of parking on Camp Hill of course is the vexed ordinance - the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance, or a title to that effect - which we tried to repeal last year but which the senatorial colleagues of honourable members of the Opposition prevented us from doing. However, I am sure that we can provide a parking place on that site. We will have to resolve this matter at a conference between the various authorities in this Parliament which handle the parking. The procedures concerning parking have been complicated because the House of Representatives handles parking on the House of Representatives side of Parliament House, the Senate handles parking on the Senate side and the Joint House Department handles parking in the front of the building. I will get them together to see whether we can achieve some rationale. I hope that by a proper approach to the various organs in this place we might be able to do something about public transport or the suggestion about using Commonwealth cars. There is no doubt that as a result of the eccentric hours which we work and the demands which we make on people it needs a special exertion on our part to make life here and transport to and from this place comfortable. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
(a) No. 
The precise lines of demarcation between the two services have not yet been established. This matter was however discussed at the Conference of Aboriginal Legal Services held in Canberra on 3-4 December 1973 which was attended by representatives of the Aboriginal Legal Services and by officers of the Attorney-General's Department and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The Australian Legal Aid Office will provide assistance to all persons in need including Aboriginals. Individual Aboriginals will have the choice of approaching either the Australian Legal Aid Office or the Aboriginal Legal Service for assistance. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The companies referred to are Applied Ecology Pty Ltd, Aboriginal and Islander Products Pty Ltd and Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd. Theshareholdings are - 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The definition of Aboriginal used in the enrolment of voters and nomination of candidates is that adopted by the Australian Government, namely: a person of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander descent who identifies as an Aboriginal or Islander and is accepted as such by the community with which he is associated. 
and (4) A committee of disputed returns, comprising three Aboriginals, was elected by a meeting of the interim National Aboriginal Consultative Committee in May 1973 and - dispute over the qualifications of a nominated candidate would have been considered by that committee. It was resolved at the meeting of the interim National Aboriginal Consultative Committee in May 1973 that the decision of the committee of disputed returns should be final. 
and (6) The following table shows the numbers enrolled for the elections and ti c number who voted in each State and the Northern Territory: 
Of course, it is true that under the present management Canberra has become very attractive to schools to visit. At the present moment the transport section of my Department charters buses at $5 an hour and 35c a mile. They cost about $50 for hire for a 6-hour day. I think that the private operators charge about $100 a day. I will discuss the matter with my colleague the Minister for Education to see whether we can make the buses available free. We have the power to do so under the Ordinance which, I think, was initiated by my colleague, the present Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply. As we supply free buses for the children of Canberra it may well be appropriate to do the same in this case. 
As to air fares, I will discuss that matter with that well known benefactor of the travelling public, the Minister for Transport, to see whether it is possible for the airlines to do something about equalising fares throughout Australia. I imagine that it would be enormously difficult to do so, as the airlines have to operate on a commercial basis. I sympathise with the need to be able to supply the people of Western Australia with the same opportunity to visit this capital as the people from the eastern States have. If it is possible to make some sort of equitable arrangement I am sure that my colleague the Minister for Transport will help us to organise it. 
I have had this matter brought to my notice and have discussed it with the Minister for Health. Unfortunately, the ordinances pertaining to this Territory are years behind, but of course still are miles in front of the political philosophies of the previous Government. We are working on a whole range of ordinances. I would regard this one as urgent and I will ask the Attorney-General to expedite its consideration after discussions with the Minister for Health. 
PRICE OF CRUDE Oil- 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The sum of $140,500 has been approved as a grant to the Papunya Housing Association to be used to meet initial costs in establishing the Association, purchasing plant and equipment and building  4  houses. 
Designs for the first 4 houses have been prepared by the Association's consultant architect in consultation with the community. The houses will be brick, with 3 bedrooms. The Association hopes to build a substantial number of houses and their design and construction may be varied. 
No contracts have been let. The intention in funding Aboriginal housing societies is to ensure that there is maximum involvement of local Aboriginal labour and maximum use of locally-produced building materials. Under the scheme, houses are not erected by contractors, though it may be necessary to sub-contract electrical and plumbing work. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
(2) and (3) My predecessor announced on  4  September 1973 an intention to set up a study group to inquire into relations between Aboriginals and the police. He appointed  Mr L.  Shilton as consultant to investigate allegations of police discrimination and to make recommendations about relationships between Aboriginals and the police, but no study group was set up.  Mr Shilton  has completed his engagement and has submitted short papers on his observations and findings to my Department, but no report to Government is being prepared. 
No. I have had discussions with the New South Wales Minister for Justice about relationships between Aboriginals and the police in Sydney and arrangements are being made for regular meetings between his Department and a representative group of Sydney Aboriginals. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prices and Commercial Practices Branch of the Department of the Capital Territory undertakes consumer protection activities. 
Legislation which comes within the administration of that Branch is: 
* Consumer Affairs Ordinance 1973 
* Includes provisions relating to - 
Consumer Affairs Council 
Consumer Affairs Bureau 
As the representative of primary industry in the Australian Capital Territory I want to make several points to the honourable member about the question he asked. First of all he has my assurance, and he can assure the rest of the poultry industry, that we will not permit the Australian Capital Territory to become a beach-head from which some operators will be able to destroy the rationalisation of the Australian poultry industry. It is » very hard-won agreement - agrément even. 
At meetings of the Australian Agricultural Council my colleagues from the States seem to regard the Australian Capital Territory as alien territory except when they want something. So I have assured them also that they will get no absolute agreement from me about the matter until they start to treat the Australian Capital Territory with a little more equality. However, we are producing legislation to ensure that quotas can be established by law. It is true that the present quota of  85,000  hens pertains. I have given my guarantee that that quota will prevail until we have arrived at a better agreement with the States. But about  140,000  to  150,000  birds are necessary to meet the requirements of the Australian Capital Territory. (Honourable members interjecting.) 
I think that my colleagues overrate their capacities in other fields. The situation is that the Australian Capital Territory is accepting the principle of rationalisation of the poultry industry. The Australian Capital Territory will not be used as a place from which some great operators can assault the rest of the Australian industry. 
But I am not going to allow to continue a situation in which the industry in the Australian Capital Territory does not have parity with the rest of Australia. If the honourable gentleman who interjects asks me a question about margarine I will give him the sort of answers which he probably deserves. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The net increase in positions created within the Department of the Capital Territory and Authorities for which I am responsible is , 69 positions. 
Of these 69 positions 44 were in the Third Division and 25 were in the Fourth Division. 
91 permanent positions were created and 22 temporary positions were abolished giving a net increase of 69 positions. There were no exempt positions created. 
The annual salary estimate to meet the net increase is $688,000. 
Minister for Immigration:Statement Made In Manchester  (Question No. 115) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Investigations into air quality in Canberra are being carried out mainly in relation to emissions by motor vehicles. These investigations are being conducted by  Dr N.  Daly of the School of Chemistry at the Australian National University. 
The purpose of the investigations is to identify the development of points where pollutants may become dangerous and to predict the occurrence of photo-chemical smog. 
, (4) and (5) After the investigations have been completed later this year I will arrange for the report to be tabled. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no separate lists for houses and family flats. 
Houses and family flats 5,693. 
Bachelor flats 89. 
The average delay in providing those on the waiting lists with accommodation is: 
38 months for a house. 
26 months for a family flat. 
83 months for a one-bedroom flat. 
47 months for a bed-sitting room flat. 
Delays as at 31 December 1972 were as follows: 
36 months for a house. 
24 months for a family flat. 
76 months for a one-bedroom flat (d)50 months for a bed-sitting room flat. 
Delays as at 31 December 1971 were as follows: 
35 months for a house. 
12 months for a family flat. 
79 months for a one-bedroom flat. 
57 months for a bed-sitting room flat. 
Australian Capital Territory: Establishment ofHousing Authority  (Question No. 383) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3)  Mr Enderby,  when he was Minister for the Capital Territory, answered a similar question (No. 800, Hansard No. 15, 1973 pages 1119-1120) asked by the honourable member and advised that the issue of an independent housing authority seems to be related to the Self-Government Inquiry being carried out by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. It is not proposed to make a decision on this matter until the Committee's recommendations are made and examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
9,601 dwellings. 
(a) 7,409 Houses; (b) 1,041 Family Flats and; (c) 1,151 Bachelor Flats. 
1971, 1,1166; 1972, 860 and 1973, 1,673. 
7,339. 
There is no waiting list. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The names of the persons appointed to the Agents Board are: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. The Prime Minister's Policy Speech said: We will establish once and for all Aborigines' rights to land and insist that whatever the law of George III says, a tribe and a race with an identity of centuriesmillenia - is as much entitled to own land as even a proprietary company. 
No. 
The Report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission is expected shortly. 
Yes; the number of applications affected is 45. 
The Government will make a decision on the recommendations of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission as soon as possible after the Commission's final report is completed. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
See reply to Question No. 1338 which appeared in Hansard 13 December 1973. 
Questions relating to the particulars of legal aid services available to other persons throughout Australia should be referred to my colleague, the Attorney-General. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The position remains as set out in my reply to question 1341, that is, that the question of the establishment of an all-Party Parliamentary Committee to assist me in considering recommendations for grants from the Trust Account is still under consideration. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have discussed with the New Zealand Prime Minister and the Minister for Maori Affairs the possibility of a co-operative exchange of officers of the 
New Zealand Department of Maori Affairs and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. While there is agreement to the principle of an exchange of officers, detailed arrangements have yet to be finalised. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs is aware of proposals for a Black Australian studies course at Monash University. 
During 1973 the Centre for Research into Aboriginal Affairs, at Monash University, held preliminary discussions with officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on a proposed Black Australian studies course at first year level within the Department of Anthropology and Sociology, Arts Faculty. It is now proposed that such a course be provided as a pilot scheme on a non-credit basis between May and September 1974. An application for financial assistance has recently been received by the Department and is being examined. 
Aborigines: Employment in Private Industry  (Question No. 141) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) My predecessor in keeping with his undertaking referred to in his reply to question 275, initiated some discussions between the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and certain industrialists on methods of improving employment opportunities in industry for Aboriginals; these discussions are continuing and proposals arising from them have yet to be finalised, and involve matters of business confidentiality. Officers of my Department also gave evidence recently to the Committee of Inquiry into Labour 
Market Training, relating to the need for industry leaders to take a positive role in increasing employment opportunities for Aboriginals. 
Yes. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Following reports of an outbreak of gastroenteritis amongst the children on the Island, my predecessor requested a medical team from the University of New South Wales to go to the Island. The terms of reference for their investigation were to estimate the severity of the outbreak, determine its immediate causes, and relate these to the socio, economic conditions on the Island. 
Officers of my Department have examined the team's report and have held discussions with the Queensland Department of Health. That Department indicated that certain of the recommendations in the team's report have already been implemented and the remainder are under active consideration. 
The report will be made available to anyone who wishes to see it. 
Employment off Aborigines  (Question No. 247) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Grants totalling $802,800 were made in September 1973 to Queensland Shires and municipalities on an interim basis. Final allocations to a number of these local government authorities in Queensland have yet to be made. Numbers of Aboriginals 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 

 Dr Bustard is not an officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and has not been an employee of Applied Ecology Ltd since 29 November 1973. In submitting  Ms resignation  as a director of Applied Ecology Ltd, in a letter dated 4 March 1974,  Dr Bustard  gave his address as Alyth, Scotland. 
The reasons for the inclusion of Edinburgh in the travel undertaken by  Dr Bustard  is one of the matters referred to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs by the Auditor-General whichmy Department has undertaken to examine, and Ibelieve will be the subject of enquiry by the Public Accounts Committee. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. The position formerly held by  Mr Giese  was Assistant Administrator, Welfare (Level 2). The Director position is at .  Level  3. 
(a) Yes. 
Yes. 
No.  Mr Giese  occupies the position of Specialist Adviser (Level 2) to the Permanent Head on northern Australian matters. 
See answer to (3). 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In a statement on 6 April 1973 the Prime Minister said that: 
The basic object of my Government's policy is to restore to the Aboriginal people of Australia their lost power of self determination in economic, social and political affairs.' 
He referred to the Government's intention to introduce legislation to enable Aboriginal groups and communities to incorporate for the conduct of their affairs and stated that the Government envisaged 'these incorporated societies, set up for purposes chosen by their Aboriginal members, determining their own decision-making processes, choosing their own leaders and executives in ways they will themselves decide as the primary instruments of Aboriginal authority at the local and community level'. He referred also to the intention to establish an elected consultative body with which the Government will confer on matters affecting Aboriginals. 
(a) There is no proposal to transfer the Torres Strait Islands, or any single island, from the sovereignty of Australia, with or without the consent of the Islanders. The Prime Minister stated on 17 January 1973 that the Australian Government would be most reluctant to be a party to any settlement of the border issue which was not accepted by the Islanders in the respects which affected them. 
I am not aware of any wish to secede from Australia among the inhabitants of any reserve nor am I aware of any expectation that this might be possible. Government policies have not been phrased in terms which would suggest that secession was a possibility contemplated by the Government. 
The Government will continue to give effect to its policies of encouraging and assisting Aboriginal groups and organisations in the metropolitan areas and groups and communities in the Central Australian and other reserves to develop their own programs and to manage their own affairs. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My attention has been drawn to the case of Ezzard Glen Flowers, a 15-year-old Aborigine from Katanning, who appeared undefended before a Western Australian court on 13 charges including theft of a utility with violence and theft of 50 cents. I am informed that the maximum penalty under Western Australian law for any of the offences is 14 years.  Mr Flowers  received full legal counsel from a solicitor as soon as the Western Australian Aboriginal Legal Service learned of his situation. 
Yes. I am in agreement with the resolution passed at the Aboriginal Legal Service Conference held on 3 and 4 December 1973, which requested that the Attorney-General approach appropriate State and Territorial authorities requesting that an officer of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service be present throughout the entire interview during which any statement might be made by an Aborigine which could be used in evidence against him. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Superintendent of the Pallotine Centre advised my Department that he started construction of additional facilities at Rossmoyne on 9 May 1973 in order that it could be completed before the new school year in 1974. I am not aware of progress in the construction, nor of the Mission'.; arrangements for taking students for 1974. 
and (4) I am not aware of what sources of finance may be available to the Pallotines to complete the project. 
No. I see no reason to change my decision not to provide a grant to the Pallotine Mission, details of which were given in my answer to Parliamentary Question No. 1174. 
Honourable members from the other side told us earlier that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  had been chosen unanimously as candidate for the Speakership of this House. Our friend, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has just spilled the beans: The honourable member for Angas was not chosen unanimously. We have heard a fine series of orations this morning from our friends opposite. I was not surpirsed at the tone of them because I understand that the honourable member for Angas is a noted breeder of bulls. 
We are here this morning to choose the man - or perhaps the woman - to preside over this House. Our friends opposite have chosen to place before us the bright product of an authoritarian system and I simply rise this morning to remind my colleagues of the parliamentary record of the honourable member for Angas. While he was  Deputy  Whip of the Government parties he used the guillotine and applied the gag more than anybody else in history could have done. I suggest that honourable members do as I have done and just take at random one series of the Hansard record for 1972, the last period in which the honourable member for Angas held that high and exalted office. My copy of Hansard fell open at page 2833 of 18 May, where it states: 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
A flick through the pages will reveal the record of the honourable member for Angas for everybody to see. Honourable members can try it for themselves. They will see how the debate stops and is followed by lists of members voting. Let me quote from page 3005 of 24 May 1972. This was not just a weekly aberration; those who were here in 1972 will remember that it was almost an hourly aberration. This particular action was a sin of great magnitude. The Hansard record states: 

 - 'Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
The right honourable 
Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has been running for so long in handicap events in which the handicapper has been on his side that he cannot face up to a championship field. I refer to the results of the election. In the moments I have to reply it is not much use my trying to teach arithmetic to people who do not add up to anything anyhow. The facts are simple. If one does not stand for equality of electorates one does not stand for anything in parliamentary democracy. I am not surprised that Country Party members want smaller numbers in their electorates. I am quite surprised that they can represent anyone at all. I represent an industrial area of Australia which has tremendous ethnic differences in its population. These add up to the same sort of difficulties experienced by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  I can quite understand the honourable member representing sandhills. That is about his limit. 
 Mr Acting Speaker-- 
Again, certainly. When you are speaking to slow learners you want to indulge in constant repetition. I have been speaking to honourable members opposite for close on 19 years now on this very thing. If there has been any factor which has been a disgrace to Australian politics ever since the beginning of representative government it has been the constant rigging of ballots through the system of electoral redistributions. Honourable members opposite talk consistently about how we ought to introduce honest ballots into the trade union movement, where now they are mostly to be found anyhow. If a trade union leader rigs or fixes a ballot so that his opponents cannot vote or burns the ballot papers so that they cannot be counted he is put in gaol. But if you do the same thing in parliamentary elections they will make you a Liberal Premier and give you a knighthood. This has been a great disgrace to Australian political institutions. 
The simple factor to be considered in parliaments is the representation of people. I can agree and sometimes disagree on this question as to whether electorates should be counted on the basis of population or electors. But the constant factor of the Australian Parliament is that we are representatives and we vote here in accordance with our representation. Any tinkering with the numbers that we represent makes a fundamental difference to the composition of the government. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  spoke so proudly about the last redistribution in Victoria. But if we take the country electorates right around the fringe of Victoria - the electorates of Wannon, Wimmera, Mallee, Murray, Indi, Gippsland- 
They have needed good representatives and they will get them eventually, perhaps. The number of voters in those five or six electorates added up to the same number of voters as those enrolled in 4±, or thereabouts, inner Labor electorates of Melbourne. You would have to do that only a couple of times in Australia, once in New South Wales and once in Victoria, and you would change the composition of this Government. Therefore it is essential that the principle of equality of representation through the ballot box be implemented through this legislation. 
Several statements ought to be answered. Firstly, of the question as to whether a redistribution every Parliament would be a bad thing or a difficult thing was raised. I understand that in New South Wales there is a redistribution during every Parliament. I understand that the New South Wales Government is able to carry out this redistribution. We certainly would be able to carry it out, and I have no doubt that under proper instruction even the people opposite would be able to do it. The facts are that our statistical system, the information that we have and all the facilities at our disposal would make it possible to redistribute electorates to within 100 or so of one another as often as we wished. If honourable members opposite knew anything about the statistical system and the way in which a census is taken and records are kept they would realise that that is the case. I believe that it is essential for the continuation and respect of parliamentary democracy that the electorates in this Parliament be as close to equal in terms of electors as possible. I support that principle. I have supported it ever since I came here. 
My colleague the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  first introduced this Bill on 13 March last year and even the slowest learners opposite who have just arrived in this Parliament ought to have heard about it. I hope that the Parliament will pass this legislation with some expedition. I hope that the Senate will see the light and that, based upon the principle of equal votes for each State that it espouses, it will pass the legislation. If it does not, of course we can hold a joint meeting of both Houses at which we would have an absolute majority and we would then be able to pass the legislation and get on and ensure proper parliamentary elections and decent democratic procedures in this Parliament at least. 
I discussed the matter of the pipeline and Canberra's access to it with the Minister for Minerals and Energy a week or so ago. He is quite agreeable to the proposition which the honourable member puts forward. The construction of a spur line will be part of the program. I understand that it will be a couple of years before the pipeline nears the stage where we would be able to link into it, but I could not give an undertaking as to the actual time involved. However, I will say this: Private enterprise has failed signally in the past in keeping up a supply of this sort of fuel to the Australian Capital Territory. Whenever there is a crisis anywhere, either in the trade unions or in the industry, in relation to the supply of fuel we are the first victims of it. Therefore the time has come when the Government must give serious consideration to ensuring the public supplies of gas, petrol and other forms of fuel support. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Seven. 
D. M. Kerkin, J. Goldstein, J. Dash, H. N. Symington, E. McGuire, E. Hunter, R. J. Draheim. 
D. M. Kerkin, promoted Social Worker, Class 2, 30.8.73; J. Goldstein, promoted Social Worker, Class 2, 8.11.73; J. Dash, promoted Social worker, Class 2, 30.8.73; H. N. Symington, promoted Social Worker, Class 2, 30.8.73. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1) and (2)- 
General - The Prices Regulation Ordinance 1949- 1973 (as amended) came into force on 10 May 1973. 
Bread - on 5 June 1973 I declared bread to be  a  'declared good'. The Controller of Prices has fixed the maximum retail price of certain types of bread. 
Petrol - on 30 July 1973 I declared Motor Spirit to be  a  'declared good'. The Controller of Prices has fixed the maximum wholesale and retail prices of premium motor spirit and standard motor spirit. 
Beer- On 30 July 1973 I declared beer  a  'declared good'. The Controller  of  Prices fixed the maximum price of beer in a public bar-room. 
Medical Services- On 10 August 1973 I declared Medical Services to be a 'declared service'. The Controller of Prices fixed the maximum fees which may be charged for certain medical consultations. 
Real Estate Agents- On 4 September 1973 1 declared real estate agents services to be 'declared services'. No Prices Order has been issued by the Controller in respect to these services. 
Caravan Parks - On 30 April the Minister declared Caravan Parks a 'declared service'. The Controller is currently investigating the financial affairs of the A.C.T. caravan parks. 
Items which have not been 'declared' but which are currently under examination by the Controller  are: 
Sand and Gravel 
Fencing 
Undertaker's services 
Grocery items 
Retail margins on Transistorised Radios 
Meat 
Child Minding Centres 
(a) The average percentage increase in the purchase price of houses sold to tenants during 1973 was approximately 49 per cent. 
Rents of Government houses and flats were not adjusted during 1973. 
The average percentage increase in the cost of telephone services is a matter for my colleague the PostmasterGeneral. 
The average percentage increase in transport charges is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The places of residence of employees of Marrickville Margarine are not known and are their own private affair. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This is not a matter on which I have any information. 
see (1). 
(a) No. (b) No. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have 2 minutes in which to deal with the remarks of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  Firstly, I state that  Senator Brown  can handle the matter raised by the honourable member for Gippsland for himself. But Aborigines throughout Australia received voting rights at different times. For instance, they received voting rights in Queensland only in recent years. So that point can be argued. The question of housing for Aboriginal people in Victoria has been bedevilled by the incapacity of the Victorian department concerned to come to the party with facts and figures. I think that the 'best thing I can do in this matter is to have something prepared by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  setting out the procedures that are adopted, the number of nouses to be built and the reasons why those operations that we embarked upon or attempted to embark upon in the honourable member's area were not carried out. If honourable members refer to Hansard of 11 October 1973, they will notice the difference between the number of houses embarked upon by the various States and that the ration for which Victoria asked was minimal indeed. One of the great difficulties in Victoria was dealing with the rather intransigeant Government down there. 
I will deal with the turtles at a later time. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  launched the project. The previous Government put about $400,000 into it. It took us 10 or 12 months to salvage the whole situation after their rather eccentric approach to these matters. 
Mouse adjourned at 11 p.m. 
Do I detect a note of surprise in the voice of the honourable member for Corio? Does he really expect the newspaper proprietors to act as they write? Surely he realises by now that it is all right for them to deliver directions and corrections to people such as ourselves but no such moral values ought to be applied to them when they work on their own behalf. In fact, he has understated the situation. I understand that the advertising rates of the 'Canberra Times' have now increased from $319 to $560 for a halfpage - a 75 per cent increase. The rate for a full page advertisment has increased from $638 to $1,102 - a 75 per cent increase and the rate for classified advertisements has increased from 43c a line to 65c a line. It is quite true that putting on their other hat of being the moral directors of the Australian community, the proprietors have produced a couple of very interesting leading articles. One is headed, 'Setting an Example'. It states in part: 
It is to be hoped that members of the Opposition will decide at least to defer consideration of the increase until after the conference - 
That is the Moore conference - . . . will depend critically on the willingness of the union rank and file to accede to restraint of their wage claims . . . 
Another line is not bad either. It states: 
It offers the least painful solution to inflation: voluntary wage restraint. 
Another article appeared in the 'Canberra Times' on Saturday, 27 July, when the newspaper proprietors took up the pen again. The first sentence is classic. 
It is the 'Canberra Times* and it uses words short enough for you to follow. The article states: 
The Senate, perhaps unwittingly- 
I hope this is not a breach of privilege- . . . has opened the most momentous phase of the anti-inflation struggle in Australia, the phase of wage restraint . . . 
But a beginning had to be made somewhere and the least the rest of Australia can do is to amplify the momentum thus given to the do-it-yourself fight against inflation . . . 
The Senate's example is proof that there is no need yet to despair completely of human nature- 
That is, except for the Press. It is true that the 'Canberra Times' published those articles. No inquiries have been conducted into the rates of advertising as far as I know. The Canberra 'News' did close last week. I will refer the matter both to my prices authority to see whether he can examine the rates and to the Attorney-General to see whether there is any breach of the various statutes which control unfair competition. That is the situation. I think it is a fair commentary upon the general run of Australian business that at the moment the newspaper proprietors want everyone else to practise restraint while they multiply their profits. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In yesterday's Hansard I notice that both the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  - I heard one of them - referred to the turtle farming project on the Torres Strait Islands as if it were the responsibility of this Government, as if it were established on the initiative of this Government, and as if in fact I was responsible for it. I think the facts are clear enough. The project was started in a small way when the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Went worth)  was responsible for it. Under the previous Government I think about $400,000 was allocated to the project, including, I think, $250,000 in the right honourable gentleman's own Budget. When the Labor Party took office the project was beyond rational redemption but by the appointment of directors who took it under control and the responsibility- 
The point I want to make - I think it should be clear even to honourable members opposite - is that the whole project was launched on a large scale on the initiative of the present Opposition. This Government rescued the operation. It was not responsible for it. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies established a Sites of Significance Committee early in 1973 and the Committee met in April and October 1973 and in February 1974 to discuss the allocation of funds provided for the program of identification of important sites. Twenty new positions have been provided as a result of grants made to the various 
State and Territory authorities responsible for the protection of such sites: five in Western Australia, four each in New South Wales and the Northern Territory, three in South Australia, two in Queensland and one each in Victoria and Tasmania. Most of the positions (fifteen) are for site recorders, and others include a conservationist (Western Australia) to work on the causes of deterioration of rock art, and salvage archaeologists in Western Australia and New South Wales. In addition to the location and documentation of sites, programs for the training of Aboriginal workers have been developed. 
Some 1,600 sites in Western Australia, the Northern Territory, South Australia and New South Wales have been identified in this initial period. 
The protection of sites is primarily the responsibility of the State and Territory authorities which administer the relevant legislation. Once sites have been located and documented, action is taken to give the sites the benefit of the appropriate forms of legal protection available in the legislation. Special grants have been made to support scientific studies of conservation problems in Western Australia, which will be relevant in other areas and grants have been made for protective work on some particular sites. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs has provided grants to local Aboriginal bodies in the Northern Territory and elsewhere for the protection of sites by such means as fencing where this is considered necessary and desirable. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The only area where there are large-scale fishing and transport facilities is in Queensland. In Western Australia, pilot studies are being carried out at One Arm Point towards the possible provision of fishing facilities. In the Northern Territory there are now proposals being investigated for the provision or upgrading of fishing facilities at Bathurst, Galiwinku, Port Keats and Maningrida. In Queensland two vessels have been provided for general fishing purposes, the facility to which I presume the honourable member refers. These are ex-pearling vessels purchased by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the Thursday Island Co-operative. (2), (3) and (4) Responsibility for the two vessels based at Thursday Island lies with the Thursday Island Co-operative which employs six to eight Islanders on a  co-operative  profit-sharing basis. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The Crocodile Farm at Kalumburu will continue to operate as a research project. The turtle farms at One Arm Point were closed because of staffing and management problems. 
and (3) Such projects are under constant review by Applied Ecology Proprietary Limited and the Department. 
Commission of Inquiry into Transport Charges to and from Tasmania  (Question No. 403) 
The  Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
and (2) Members of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs visited Hooker Creek in March at my request as an initial step in examining ways of increasing effective Aboriginal involvement in the affairs of the community, especially the provision and management of community services, economic enterprises and social control. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Up to $110 per week gross income. 
Yes. 
No. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
One utility truck has been converted for assessment. 
There is one battery operated motor cycle at the Canberra Botanic Gardens and one light truck is on order for assessment. 
Dial-a-Bus: Australian Capital Territory  (Question No. 582) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is hoped that dial-a-bus trial can be carried out in Canberra in 1974-75 but a final decision will rest on the availability of funds and staff. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report on the Territory of Norfolk Island for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
It is well governed. I will see the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly). 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Capital Development Commission has indicated planning agreement to a site which the Department of the Capital Territory will make available for Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Limited in the Crace industrial area. A lease of the site will be offered to the Company. 
It is the present policy of the Company to modernise and expand its production sufficiently to retain its traditional share of the local market for clay bricks. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As a result of the National Aboriginal Sports Foundation meeting in Perth on 17 December 1973, recommendations totalling some $85,000 were placed before me early in January for my consideration and approval. It was not possible to consider these recommendations within the 1973/74 funds allocation of the National Aboriginal Sports Foundation, but I asked the Foundation to identify the priority items within the recommendations up to the level of the remaining funds ($20,000), and approved the amended recommendations on 10 April 1974. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and' (2) The Department of Aboriginal Affairs has not purchased land for 'public purposes and for the use and benefit of Aborigines'. Land required for the establishment of Aboriginal economic enterprise or community projects outside Aboriginal reserves is purchased by the Aboriginal group concerned, with funds made available by the Australian Government. 
and (4) No. Grants provided for the purchase of land are provided to legal entities suitably incorporated as representative of the Aboriginal communities concerned. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Ten. 
No invitations were issued. Departmental rearrangements arising from the implementation of the Administration Arrangement Order of 20 December 1972 were in the hands of the Public Service Board. Under these arrangements, the Welfare and Social Services Branch (comprising nine officers) of the Government and Social Affairs Division of the former Department of the Interior was the only branch of that department to become part of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
The Department has sought since its inception to obtain the services of persons with appropriate experience and qualifications. 
No. 
 The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(1)- 
3 
6 
(2)- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: '(1) There are two waiting lists for Government housing - one which was closed on 28 September 1973 and one opened subsequently. 
Admission to the new list is limited to A.C.T. employed families whose breadwinner's gross income does not exceed $121 per week or where there are more than two dependent children $121 per week with an additional allowance of $2 per week for each dependent child in excess of two. 
Houses are still being allocated to persons on the waiting list which was closed on 28 September 1973. 
It is also a condition of eligibility for allocation of a Government house in all cases that the applicant does not hold a residential lease in the A.C.T. or own a house in Queanbeyan. Allocations are not made except in special circumstances to persons who have had previous Government housing assistance in the A.C.T. 
In certain cases of distress or priority need, houses are allocated on a priority basis. 
For tenants in occupation of Government houses as of 7 July 1972, a minimum deposit of 5 per cent of the total value of the property and a Government loan for the balance of the purchase price. If a house was allocated on a priority basis the tenant is not eligible to purchase until the expiration period equivalent to the waiting time for a three bedroom house. 
Persons who were on the Government housing waiting list on 7 July 1972 are currently entitled, when allocated houses, to purchase with a minimum deposit of 10 per cent and mortgage up to 512,000 maximum. The availability of the mortgage is subject to a needs test. 
The interest rate is 7i per cent with a rebate of 1 per cent for payment of instalments by the due date. The maximum term of mortgages is 45 years. Valuation is at current market value. 
Tenants who purchase Government houses, if wishing to sell within five years of purchase, are required under Section 28 A of the City Area Leases Ordinance to give first offer to the Crown. 
Loans up to a maximum amount of $12,000 are made available by the Commissioner for Housing for purchase of existing houses or erection of new houses, repayable over a maximum period of 32 years with interest at 7i per cent with a .rebate of 1 per cent for prompt payment. 
Housing costing more than $35,000 including land are not financed under the scheme unless .there are exceptional circumstances. The Commissioner for Housing loan is not available to applicants who have sufficient means to finance their own homes or who are eligible to receive Defence Service Homes loans. 
No two bedroom houses are being erected. The current average cost of three and four 'bedroom houses is: 

 - Mr Acting Chairman, in your memoirs you will at least be able to record that you presided over the most manifest reason for the abolition of the Senate that you will ever see. The honourable senator from Tasmania, they tell me, was - (Opposition supporters interjecting) - 
-I will speak loud enough to be heard, no matter what the rabble opposite does. I understand that the honourable senator from Tasmania was No. 2 on the Liberal Party ticket at the last election. He is the second prize. What must the first prize have been like? He said that he has been here for 25 years. During that time he has helped to contribute to the continuous disruption of the Australian political system. During those 25 years he voted for the Communist Party Dissolution Bill, which was one of the great disgraces of this Parliament. He supported conscription over the many years during which it was inflicted on Australia. What a miserable 25-year record. Tonight the people of Australia must be confounded as they consider the day long histrionics of the people opposite. We are endeavouring to place the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory properly into the electoral map of Australia. The polysyllabic platitudes of the honourable senator from Tasmania, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and my friend, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  have been exciting to listen to, but what nonsense they talk. The honourable senator from Tasmania talks about unrest and anarchy outside. What better argument for that than what the people have been able to see here today. 
In fact, of course, we are discussing a Bill which is to be enacted and brought into effect by this Joint Sitting today. The Bill is simple and direct. I have a copy with me and in case honourable senators and members have forgotten I will tell them what it is all about. Its purpose is to give to the Australian Capital Territory Senate representation of 2 senators and to the Northern Territory Senate representation of 2 senators. All day long the noise of battle has rolled from the people opposite who have said: 'This is going to ruin the Senate '. In fact, written into the Act itself is the very protection of the way in which the Senate is constructed. The Bill provides for proportional representation in such a way that it will be very unlikely that there is not representation from both the Labor and the non-Labor parties. It is written into the Constitution that the Senate is part of the Australian Parliament, and this produces the protective system. I am surprised that nobody opposite has pointed out that fact. Therefore, most of the arguments advanced by the people opposite that this proposal will cripple the Senate because it will produce a lopsided Senate have no grounds in fact. The thought of a lopsided Senate makes the mind boggle. This proposal will produce no substantial difference in the political structure of the Senate. That is important. Yet today, in the country which Lord Bryce, I think it was, in 1911 said was the most democratic in the world, we have listened to the representatives of the Liberal Party and the Country Party denouncing the proposal as a parliamentary plot. I find it difficult to understand how honourable members opposite, many of them with fine records as citizens and parliamentarians, have been able to confound their logic with the arguments which they have advanced. 
I listened to  Senator Greenwood  from Victoria. He referred to all sorts of terrible things that would flow. He said that this proposal was manifest corruption. He mentioned my previous Ministry. I will let history deal with that matter. I have not time to waste on it tonight. He reminded me of all the campaigns in history and of all the occasions on which people have opposed every attempt to change any social situation- from putting the Plimsoll line on ships to the 40-hour week, to giving people the vote at 21, to giving women the vote at all and to the roads of ruin of which politics are always so full. 
There were several other instances which I would like to refute. I think the honourable member for Kooyong referred to islands in the Australian scene- Norfolk, Cocos, etc.  His  was a melodramatic misuse of analogy. How on earth could he relate the population on Norfolk and Cocos to this situation? It follows in no way whatsoever. Therefore, I believe that this Parliament has done itself a disservice by the arguments which have been continuously advanced this day. I disagree completely with the honourable member for Moreton that this is the most historic alteration to the Constitution. Probably the most historic change in the Constitution was that which occurred when the High Court ruled that there could be uniform taxation. Possibly, as an electoral question, the change to the electoral system in the 1948-49 period, which introduced proportional voting at Senate elections, was a much more substantial change than anything else, because it created the situation in which there is practically equal representation in the Senate. It is unfortunate that those opposite confused their role as members of the Senate with their role as members of political parties, because that is not the way they talked today. The honourable member for Moreton talked about the Senate's historic role. How does he see its historic role? It is to rubber stamp anti-Labor legislation and to frustrate Labor governments. We are here tonight to remind the people of Australia about that. 
One other obsession that honourable members opposite have is that institutions are much more important than people. They refer to the States. What are the States? They are geographical aberrations, in most cases, drawn on the map over a century ago. Yet they are supposed to have some substantial value which is greater than that which belongs to any person. Fancy considering that the humble people of the Territories be represented in this institution, particularly in the Senate. So they are obsessed with the Senate and with bicameralism. Honourable members opposite say that this proposal will mean that the people of the Territories will be over represented. I say to  Senator Wright  from 
Tasmania that at the first Federal election 38,000 electors were enrolled in Tasmania. They elected 6 senators and 5 members of the House of Representatives. That has nothing to do with the question, either. Nobody has suggested at any stage that the Senate represents people equally. It is a geographical representation system. 
What are the issues? Firstly, are all Australians equal? Are they equal before the law? We try to make them so. Are Australians equal in their representation in this place? They are not, while the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are not represented in the Senate. 
What is representation about? Earlier today we debated the question of how electoral boundaries should be drawn. Representation in this Parliament covers a multitude of functions. First of all, there is the sheer arithmetic of it. Arithmetic has little place in relation to the Senate when we consider Tasmania vis-a-vis New South Wales. Representation has little relation to space, but it has a lot to do with people. It has something to do with equity. But more importantly in the parliamentary sense, it has to do with the voice of the people in the way they speak and in the way they are heard. That is the issue here this evening. 
These are the realities of the Senate: Because it is elected equally from the States, it is almost bound to be equally divided after an election. Therefore, if people are excluded from representation in the Senate they are excluded from the proper deliberations of this Parliament. The only way that political power can be exercised by people is by their being a part of the political institutions. The only way that the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory can exercise their rights and their duties as free and equal Australians citizens is for them to be represented wherever there are representative institutions, including the Senate. The matter is not just one of voting. All of us here know that in the politics of confrontation we do come to vote one side against the other. But people exercise influence in these institutions often times not because they represent 5,000 electors, 50,000 electors or a million electors, as my friend the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  does, but because they have a voice and a personality and they stand for something. 
There is no way that the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory can have a proper place in Australian politics unless they are represented equally in the Senate. Participation is the very essence of the democratic contract. I intend to speak on the situation in the Australian Capital Territory rather than the situation in the Northern Territory which has been handled adequately by my friend the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  The honourable members for Canberra  (Mr Enderby)  and Fraser  (Mr Fry)  have represented adequately the situation in the Australian Capital Territory. But let me say something about it and for it as a non-voter in the Australian Capital Territory but as one who has been deeply involved in it ever since I was elected to this place 19 years ago. Canberra is deeply involved in the national interest. We cannot think of Canberra and the national capital unless we think also of the nation. The fact of the matter is that the interest of the local people is fundamental. One of the questions we face- I put it to the Parliament now- is to create an electoral, parliamentary or governmental system for the Australian Capital Territory. The interest of the national Parliament is absolute. I can see no way in which this Parliament will surrender its right to make the laws or to be part of the law making apparatus for the A.C.T. It is only just and proper that in the due process the people of this Territory should be properly represented in both parts of the Parliament. 
Tonight we are talking about some very important things. We are considering the Australian continent. It is one continent and one people. Since the very beginning of representative and responsible government, governments have aimed at delivering to all Australians, no matter in which part of the continent they live, the same quality of service and the same quality of government. One hundred and two years ago the various States embarked upon an education system to deliver to the furthest pan of Australia the same quality of education as they would deliver to anybody who lived in the city. They said that they would do the same with health services. Now it comes to political rights. It is late in the day, but the decisions we will make this evening will deliver equal political rights to all citizens in Australia, no matter where they live. 
The history of electoral advance has been one of struggle, of reason against unreason. It has been a struggle on behalf of people against prejudice and bigotry. It has been an attempt to change institutions which would not change themselves. I remind honourable members and senators of the Bill. The Bill is a significant document. It does change an attitude. It does not change the Constitution. The important factor is that it does not change the basis of the representation. We may well take the honourable member for Moreton at his word and have 5, 15 or 50 senators from each Territory, but so long as they are elected on the system advocated and proposed in the Bill it will not make a jot of difference to the balance in the Senate. 
I remind honourable members and honourable senators of the run-up to this operation, the efforts to frustrate it and the long haul to get here this afternoon and this evening. No matter how much obstruction occurs from now on, at least on this occasion we will have made a great achievement- we will have written into legislation matters which, one hopes, the people opposite will never be able to unwrite. 
On behalf of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs I present for the information of honourable members the report entitled 'Program for Yuendumu and Hooker Creek' prepared by the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
108. 
Fourth Division: 13 x CA 1; 3 x CA 2; 2 x CA 4; 4 Technical Officers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
5,055. 
The main reasons for the removal of names from the list were that applicants had- 
ceased to be employed in the A.C.T.; 
failed to notify change of address; 
purchased a house privately; or 
requested transfer to the land list. 
Apart from 834 cancellations due to transfers to the land list, statistics on the breakdown of cancellation by reason are not kept.  'Advance Australia Fair'  (Question No. 746) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) &amp; (3) Suggestions and advice are normally provided to applicants in the course of investigations of their applications for loans from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. Reasons for rejection are not normally given when applications for loans are rejected. People whose applications have been rejected are usually advised by means of a standard letter 
At the time the question was asked, the number of personnel within the Economic Development Branch was 25, as follows: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1) One officer received training in Financial Management during 1973-74. 
Director, Class 10, Third Division, Establishments and Finance. 
At the time the officer concerned had a responsibility for the Finance Section of the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The National Capital Development Commission advises the Department of the Capital Territory some months before a block is serviced that it is expected to be serviced and available for lease in a particular month. 
This enables the Department to complete its administrative procedures before servicing of the site and the final land survey is finalised. 
The result is that the Department is usually waiting on the Commission and the Department of Services and Property (which carries out the field survey) to complete their tasks. As soon as advice is received that this work is complete, the site is referred to either the Waiting List Pool or the Builder's Pool for immediate allocation to individuals and builders respectively. 
A pool of blocks is maintained in both of these areas so that a reasonable selection is available from which those eligible to take up a lease can make a choice. 
Australian Capital Territory: 'Spec' Builders (Question No. 487) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I replied to a statement made by a private builder which criticised the present arrangement under which freelance builders obtain a quota of residential leases on which to build homes for sale at controlled reasonable prices. I did not say that 'spec' builders were victimising home purchasers in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I appreciate the role project builders play in the Canberra scene and have publicly acknowledged this. 
The report published in the Courier misinterpreted and gave undue prominence to my personal concern that people should be able to procure custom built homes cheaply and that their choice is tending to be limited to a selection from project design homes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) and (b) One auction only of leases for residential housing was held after 1 July 1973 after which the present allocation arrangement was introduced. The average price of all residential leases sold at that auction was $10,560 and for group blocks alone $15,101. 
The average price of leases allocated under the new scheme up to 30 June 1974 to both individuals and freelance builders is $5,583. Under this scheme there is no separate provision for group allocations 
(c) and (d) Leases of sites for flats and town houses permit some flexibility in the number of units to be built on each site. The average price per block does not provide a useful means of comparison. However the average price paid per residential unit for such leases was $6,56 1 at the one auction held after 1 July 1973 and $4,407 for all leases allocated from that time up to 30 June 1 974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) Since October 1973 leases have been granted to freelance builders and to people registered on a waiting list at prices equal to the rating value of the lease as at I January 1973 less 30 per cent. Those people eligible to register on the waiting list have been voluntary transferees from the old rental housing waiting list, persons who had never previously held an interest in land and, more recently, those who live and work in the Australian Capital Territory and have not held title to land in the Australian Capital Territory during the past five years. A deposit of $ 100 is required from people registering on the list. 
Applicants reaching the top of the waiting list are offered a choice of land on hand. After making a selection they are given one month in which to confirm the availability of building finance before they are required to pay for and take up the lease. 
Freelance builders have each been given a quota of leases based on their building performance in the Australian Capital Territory over the past three years or proof of their capacity to complete homes within the specified period. They can nominate the time when they wish to take their allocation and are given as wide a choice as possible having regard to the number of serviced blocks on hand. 
Builders are given three months in which to have building plans approved and to pay for and take up the leases. When a house has been completed the builder is not permitted to transfer the lease without obtaining approval of his selling price. This is aimed at ensuring as far as possible that the lease is passed on to the end purchaser at a price no greater than was paid for it by the builder. 
Control over the price at which leases may be transferred is maintained for a period of five years in respect of leases granted both to individuals and to builders. 
1 ) (c) and (d) Since October 1973 the practice has been to invite tenders for leases of sites for residential flats and town houses. A reserve price is fixed in the same manner as for ordinary residential leases, that is, the rating value as at 1 January 1973 less 30 per cent. A lease is offered to the applicant who offers the highest amount providing this is not less than the nominated reserve price. 
Home-seekers interested in medium density type housing have been invited to form or join co-operatives which, upon registration, can be eligible to seek the grant of a lease of a site for flats or town houses. Leases are available to these cooperatives upon payment of the reserve price calculated in the manner explained above. 
Prior to October 1973 standard residential sites were offered at public auction in restricted, unrestricted and group categories with reserve price calculated to return overall the cost of providing serviced land, but weighted to reflect the rating values placed on individual sites. 
Sites for residential flats and town houses were also offered at public auction with reserve prices fixed at 75 per cent of the assessed current market value. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A recent estimate indicated that the Australian Capital Territory population increased by about 2300 in the first quarter of 1 974, a growth rate of 7. 1 2 per cent. 
The National Capital Development Commission expects that the growth rate will continue more or less at the same level for the balance of 1 974. 
and (3) The National Capital Development Commission has advised that land servicing programmes are calculated on a financial year basis rather than a calendar year basis and that firm figures are not available. The best available estimate indicates that a total of around 4450 sites for residential units will be made available for lease in 1974, made up' as follows: 
About 20 sites for residential flats which will provide for between 1 200 and 1800 residential units. 
About 430 sites for town houses which will provide about 800 residential units. 
About 4000 sites for detached housing. 
The National Capital Development Commission completed 429 dwelling units in the six months ended 30 June 1974 and expects to achieve a further turn-off of about 750 units during the remainder of 1 974. 
The 1 1 79 Government owned dwelling units would be expected to accommodate about 4700 people. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Auctions of residential leases were suspended by my predecessor in August 1 973. One auction was held between 1 July 1973 and the date auctions were suspended. Two hundred and forty one leases for detached housing were offered at that sale, 98 in the 'restricted A' category, 44 in 'restricted B' and 99 in 'groups'. 
Between October 1973 and 30 June 1974, 1685 of the people registered for land under the new arrangements have been offered residential leases. Of these 1160 have since been granted a lease or are in the process of taking up a lease, the remainder have declined to take up the offer. A further 1 189 leases have been either sold or offered to freelance builders through a quota arrangement. 
Under the National Capital Development Commission's land development programme for 1973-74, the following numbers of sites were available for lease: 
1 75 town house sites on which about 33 1 town house units can be built. 
3372 sites for detached housing. 
13 sites for residential flats on which about 462 residential units can be built. 
There is no record of an answer given on 3 1 August 1973. However, if the honourable member is referring to an answer given to question No. 247 on 11 September 1973, then there has been a decrease in the numbers of sites expected to be available. 
Leases sold during 1973-74 provide for expected population in 1974-75. The National Capital Development Commission has advised that it expects that the land made available together with land provided for Government owned rental housing is sufficient to provide for the estimated population increase in the current financial year. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is an inter-departmental committee which examines matters related to Australian Capital Territory housing. 
and (3) No. The committee has drafted a report but it has not been finalised. 
The committee is expected to offer advice to the Minister on aspects of housing. 
5 ) Each matter will be looked at on its merits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The apportioning of costs as between municipal and territorial revenues will depend on the ultimate functions of the Legislative Assembly. 
It will not be possible to estimate the costs of the Legislative Assembly until the powers that it will exercise become clear. The Government has reiterated that it would not determine the powers of the Legislative Assembly in advance of the Government's consideration of the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on selfgovernment and related financial matters. 
I will await the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on self-government and related financial matters before considering the need for such action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Approval has been given to a scheme of development subject to certain conditions. As far as I am aware the company has not yet reached a decision in the matter. 
The project is in accordance with a decision made by the previous Government to permit but not actively encourage redevelopment in Kingston. It would provide additional accommodation but this could equally well be provided on other sites recently offered for lease for medium density housing in which limited or no interest has been shown by private developers. 
Policies are continually under review. Under present arrangements leases for all forms of residential development are available at very reasonable prices. 
No. 
The Government has no current plans to acquire residential land in Kingston or other parts of Canberra purely for redevelopment purposes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government has under consideration the question of child care services and facilities on a national basis. The honourable member will be aware of various reports, which the Government is considering. These reports and recommendations will doubtless have implications for the Australian Capital Territory. 
Officers of the Department of the Capital Territory are in regular communication with the relevant authorities in the field of child care and with the various local community organisations. At present, I do not see a need to establish a consultative committee but I will keep the possibility open. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Capital Development Commission's current plans envisage Government houses constituting approximately 30 per cent of the total Tuggeranong development. 
Private housing construction provides a wide range of housing types. The National Capital Development Commission advises that a variety of designs will be used for Government housing. In addition sites will be available for lease for a variety of medium density housing developments including cluster and courtyard houses, town houses and residential flats. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 20 August 1974, 2,080 objections to valuations have been received. These will be handled as quickly as possible having regard to staff limitations. 
The current practice is to revalue each 3 years. It is intended this practice will be continued and the next revaluation will then be to levels prevailing at 1 January 1976. It is expected the values will then be introduced for the rating year commencing 1 July 1977. 
Increases in annual rate charges do not necessarily automatically result from increased unimproved values. The level of rates payable each year is determined by the amount of revenue required to meet the estimated cost of municipal services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. In fact the Norfolk Island Council at its recent meeting resolved that it disassociates itself from the recent publicity in the Australian and local press concerning a visit to Norfolk Island by a United Nations delegation. In so resolving Council emphasised that it has not considered such action and that no poll was conducted to ascertain the views of all Councillors concerning a proposed visit of such a delegation to Norfolk Island. 
and (4) The honourable member will be aware that some sections of the Norfolk Island community reacted angrily to the closure of tax haven loopholes predicted by the previous Government and implemented by this Government. 
Some persons on the Island resent Government pressure to introduce statutory land planning, a concept which had the support of the previous Government, and resent the Government's interest in encouraging effective controls over the siting, design and construction of buildings. Some people fear the spectres of taxes as future possibilities. 
The Government is aware that Norfolk Island has problems which require special attention. Experts have been engaged to advise on matters such as long-term population controls, land and land use, introduction of guaranteed land tides and the development and control of ground water resources. The Kingston ruins are being restored at great expense, with great tourist potential Education and hospital needs are being reassessed. 
The honourable member will be aware that in 1960 the Norfolk Island Council Ordinance was amended to provide considerable local administrative control. The Norfolk Island Council declined to accept these responsibilities and the amendment was repealed in 1963. The present newlyelected Council hopes for some transfer of powers and I have already invited discussion on this. 
Norfolk Island faces many of the investment problems of modern communities needing money to upgrade education, health, municipal facilities and social services. 
As the honourable member knows the Island pays no income tax, has no sound system of municipal charging and has limited sources of revenue. The Island's permanent and transient population is increasing and the challenge is to find ways through these problems. The answers will not be found in acrimony; the problems cannot be ignored. I can assure the honourable member that the objectives of Government are fully in step with the aspirations of progressive nations. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3 ) The method of distribution of natural gas in the Australian Capital Territory and the areas to be served have not yet been determined. 
The costs of reticulation would normally be recovered in the tariff. Who should bear the cost of conversion of existing appliances has not yet been determined. 
The heating capacity of appliances converted from the use of LPG to the use of natural gas would generally be unchanged even though the heat output of a given volume of LPG is greater than the same volume of natural gas. Adjustment of appliances at conversion would compensate for the difference in gas characteristics so as to give approximately the same heat output. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
One. 
Phyllis Ann Somers. 
Director (Class 10), Policy Development Section, Policy Development and Review Branch, Policy Division. 
The duties of this position are- to undertake systematic analysis and investigation into and formulate policies regarding major policy issues and areas of policy initiatives. To prepare high level submissions and advice. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) A total of about SO men will be employed. 
Details of the equipment purchased by the communities participating in the programs are: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) With reference to the answers to my questions Nos 1225 of 6 November 1973 and 1339 of 15 November 1973 which stated that Kildurk Station was valued by private consultants at $919,000 and that Glenairy/Sunnyside was similarly valued at $125,000, will the Minister obtain, and provide the House with, the Valuer-General 's valuation of these properties at the time of their purchase. 
Are these transactions being reviewed by the AuditorGeneral. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. I am satisfied that while Government valuations were not made, satisfactory valuations were obtained from private consultants. 
The Auditor-General's Report of March 1974 on the Department of Abonginal Affairs referred at pages 8/9 and 38/39 to the purchase of Kildurk Station; the properties referred to at paragraph 1 (c) of Appendix A to the Report were Glenairy and Sunnyside. It is evident therefore that these transactions have been reviewed by the AuditorGeneral. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I have received no formal communication from the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee conveying the text of the resolution referred to. I am, however, satisfied that there are many unsatisfactory aspects to relationships between police and Aboriginals throughout Australia and believe there could be merit in having a thorough investigation of these matters undertaken. I will await receipt of the full text of the resolution before determining whether I should recommend to the Government the establishment of a Royal Commission to investigate Aboriginal/Police relationships, or whether some other form of inquiry might be appropriate. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
l ) The National Aboriginal Consultative Committee has not forwarded to me details of the resolution referred to. I am aware that there have sometimes been unsatisfactory aspects in the arrangements made for fostering Aboriginal children. I will await receipt of the full text of the resolution before considering what action might be taken on this proposal. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable members' question: 
I am aware of the situation at Indulkana and recently discussed it with the South Australian Minister for Community Welfare in the context of the application of the principle behind the recommmendations of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission to South Australia. My Department is also examining action which might be taken to increase the land available to the community at Indulkana. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1)to (5) 
The question has little relevance to the operations of the Department of the Capital Territory and authorities under my control. 
The nature of the work of these organisations does not require the preparation of specific research and development programs. 
Project officers are engaged from time to time to concentrate on special projects with which the Department and authorities are concerned and some officers of the Department allocate a portion of their time to particular projects. However, there are no Research Officers as such within their organisations. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I ) The members of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee are: 
The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has been weeping copiously here for the last 20 minutes. He is the apostle of gloom and the promulgator of continuing strings of cliches that have been lifted from some Liberal or Country Party written dossier produced at its headquarters. At heart he probably thinks, if he has read and understood it, that it is really a first class Budget. My colleague the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  questioned why he could not acknowledge in his diatribe of woe that there are things in the Budget that benefit the people whom he is supposed to represent. 
Let us take some of the words he used. He used such terms as 'the worst', 'the most ill-conceived ' -he used those words quite often- 'the most inappropriate', 'produced no facts or figures to support any comparison with the past'. It might do honourable members opposite well to browse through the copious outpourings of our predecessors in office including the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  and his predecessors, who used a continuing string of cliches about inflation and growth as excuses for its not being appropriate to carry out social programs. 
They preach consistently about the need for restraint. But they will not front up and say what area of our social program we ought to restrain. Nor does the constant baying from the Country Party corner indicate any understanding of what is happening even in the areas it represents. What is the position in the sugar industry? What is the position in the wool industry or what would it be if we had not taken steps to protect the wool industry? Honourable members opposite for years have perpetuated and continued the idiocy of the open auction system for wool with no reserve price. What about wheat? I am not too sure what the position is with peanuts but I have no doubt they are doing quite well too. (Opposition members interjecting)- 

 - Mr Speaker, I do not think you ought to inhibit the mooings from the barnyard. Let us examine some of the things the honourable member for Fisher said. Let us just take the area of education. 
I am glad that the honourable member has turned up. There is a possibility that after all these years, slow learners as honourable members in that corner are, they might well garner some knowledge. Let us examine some of the things the honourable member for Fisher, said. I rather liked the contradiction when he said: 'I am not all that fond of the increase in interest rates'. I think, as he does, that it is a threat, but it is not a threat to savings. Surely some profit flows to savings. He did not even admit those things that are apparent to anybody who reads the financial pages of the newspapers. He said that all initiative and enterprise are being denuded of profits. He did not quite use the words in that eloquent manner, but that is what I think he meant. One has only to look at the pages of the 'Australian Financial Review' to see who is reaping the profits. All the Opposition's friends and supporters are making magnificent profits. Occasionally its principal friends, the speculators, the land boomers and developers and that sort find themselves in trouble. 
But let us go back to the question of education. I forget the word he used- it was 'diabolical' or something to that effect- but he criticised the reduction of the taxation deduction for the support of children at school. He completely ignored, as my colleague the Minister for Education said, the subvention that we have put into the education system through the isolated children's scheme. He mentioned the self educated person, presumably the person at a tertiary institution. While honourable members opposite were in government such people had to pay extravagant fees. The honourable member overlooked the fact that there are taxation deductions for the maintenance of children, anyhow. He perpetuated the archaic Queensland nonsense in relation to school uniforms, which were abandoned long ago in the advanced electorate of Wills. 
There was something archaic about his approach to education. He spoke of the terrible fate of the young children of Australia who would be forced to leave a private school and to attend a state school! Why, they might mix with people like us- like my friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  one of the finest flowers of the Western Australian State education system, or myself, one of the fine products of the Victorian education system. The honourable member's catalogue of gloom was totally irrelevant to everything that this Budget had to say. 
We face the question of preparation of Budgets for this nation in a totally different way from our friends opposite. In our predecessors' exercise in philosophy and objectives, as set out in the speech of the present Leader of the Opposition in 1872- no, in 1972 -we find this passage: 
Finally, we have also been determined -  they showed great courage-  to find room for measures having merit on broader grounds of social welfare and equity. 
At the end of his 5 or 6 paragraphs about the fate of the nation he could find a little corner for the social objectives of what used to be one of the world's most socially advanced nations. We do not look at Budgets as economic instruments so much as social instruments. It is essential in a modern society that we use the economic instruments to advance social causes. In the 19 years that I have been in this House- I have listened to innumerable conversations and conversaziones on Budgets; I have listened to some 18, 19 or 20 Budget Speeches and semi-Budget Speeches- all the Budgets of our predecessors had the same theme. There were constant threats to the economy which meant that previous governments could not do the things that they would have liked to do. We said: 'The objective of society is the social advancement of the citizen and we will adjust the economic measures to fit. ' It is quite obvious from the past, from the experience of everyone else in the world, that none of the tinkering with taxation or other measures of this nature will solve the problems of inflation. 
I should like to say briefly in response to my colleague from Fisher that, while it is true that we are not able to control the price structure, it is nevertheless true- not to the Opposition's credit- that it vigorously opposed the prices referendum last year, which at least would have given us some of the machinery, not necessarily totally effective machinery, to handle the situation. I wonder how members of the Opposition are prepared to step out into the public in the face of what they said less than 12 months ago. They were the economic vandals of Australia with the campaign they mounted about the referendums. Yet they have the hide in this place consistently to talk about our failure to solve the question of inflation. In some areas inflation is destroying people's hopes perhaps. I underline the word 'perhaps '. 
The honourable member mentioned his television set. Perhaps he has not missed much of his television set during the 6 months it has been out of operation in Queensland. What would have been the advantage of looking at Queensland's Premier on the television screen? As a matter of fact, television sets are cheaper relative to average weekly earnings than they were 10 years ago, as indeed is the motor car. Some 12, 15 or 20 years ago it cost the average person going into the field to teach- I shall cite my own former profession- a year's salary to buy the cheapest motor car on the market. These days it can be bought for about 8 or 9 months salary. If one takes many of the capital costs in the community -refrigerators, television sets and motor carsthat is the case. I represent one of the great producing areas of Australia. 
Honourable members opposite say 'Oh'. They think that the only persons who produce anything in Australia are the persons who own the farms on which some underpaid employees do the job while they come to this place and make ridiculous speeches. In fact, the long chain of production not only includes the honourable members- some of whom actually own land and might even be productive in their use of it- but also the people who gather the produce, those who arrange for its sale, those who transport it to the market and those who process it from the factories in electorates and places such as I represent. The fact is that 90 per cent of the citizens in my electorate are better off financially than they were 2 years ago or than they ever were. It is true- and I say this with some sadness- that they are some of the people affected by changes in the economic structure of the textile industry. But it is also true that large numbers of them- they say so; they admit ithave more cash in their pockets than ever before. Large numbers of people in business will tell you that the average working person is managing to keep in front of inflation. 
I will suggest that the right honourable gentleman visit the area; I will take him around. It is true, as I have said, that there has been a serious diminution of opportunity in the textile industry. But many of the other factories are increasing their production. Average weekly earnings have got up to somewhere between $5,000 and $6,000 a year and generally throughout Australia the figure is higher still. Anyone of them will tell you that he paid cash for his refrigerator in the last few months which was something that he could never do before and something that his father never thought he would be able to do. 
Where a great deal of what had been said about inflation is analytical it is reasonable. But where it is simply gloom chasing it is a piece of social, political and economic vandalism which tries to stimulate insecurity in the community. We are here this evening continuing the campaign to ensure that the people of Australia have a rising quality of life and that their standard of living rises continously as the wealth of the nation increases. I believe that in large measure the apostles of gloom opposite are totally irrelevant to the situation. 
What are some of the programs that the Government has put forward? Let us consider the education program. I suppose I can claim the credit, such as there is for it, for being one of those who converted the attitude of this Parliament on education from one of nonconstitutionality into a total acceptance of our national responsibility in education. We started the campaign some 18 years ago. I can recall the distinguished predecessor of honourable members opposite, the Right Honourable  Sir Robert  Menzies, telling us that the Commonwealth had no constitutional authority in the field of education. We were still new to the game and eventually, I suppose, we would understand. What is the situation now? In 1971-72 honourable members opposite put forward a Budget which put $346m into the education system. This year the figure is $ 1,534m. Honourable members opposite will say, of course: 'Yes, but the dollar is not what it used to be'. True enough- it never was. But for the first time in Australian history, I should think, the education budget of this Parliament is greater than the defence budget. This is a symbol of the priorities of our social and national programs. This is a symbol of our progress in international affairs where we have made the people opposite look totally irrelevant and archaic within a few weeks of our return to office. 
Let us take some other areas. We have moved from a figure of $8m for Aboriginal education a couple of years ago to $33m in this Budget. There has been no greater area of neglect both by the Australian Government and the State governments in the past than in the field of migrant children's education. I represent a very large migrant population. The schools in my electorate have been tortured by the influx of migrant children for whom no provision could be made. We have raised assistance in this field from $3m 2 years ago to $20m in this Budget. One of the great social achievements in my view was the abolition of university fees. It is fair enough to admit that in the same context as the abolition of the means test many people in a Party such as ours felt that the abolition of university fees was not the highest priority of the Government. But I for one, representing the people that I do, and remembering my own past and the difficulties of approaching a university, believed that the abolition of university fees was a fundamental step towards education and social equality. I know a number of working class families for whom the load was lifted by this Government's action because no matter how good their children were many of them would not have obtained scholarships. So the university doors have been opened to every Australian. There has been support for students at the senior secondary level. Also there has been support for isolated children. These programs, together with the great support given to the State education systems, represent a social and educational revolution of the first magnitude. 
So we have embarked upon a totally new set of social objectives. Therefore I have no fear of stepping anywhere in any public arena not only to support the Budget but also to promulgate the advantages that will flow from it to the Australian community. It is time we accepted the fact that this is one of the wealthiest countries in the world and there is no excuse whatsoever for some of the disadvantages that have been visited upon so many people in this country. The situation of the Aboriginal children was a disgrace. The situation of migrant children as well as Australian born children in schools in the industrial electorates of Australia was a disgrace. The greatest continuing disgrace has been our inability to get State governments to act. It is true that the Premier of Queensland is Australia's principal figure of political fun. People think that he is perhaps the worst premier in Australia. However, on behalf of those unlucky players from south of the Murray I think that the Honourable Richard Hamer beats him hands down. He and his government are the greatest experts in the obstruction of national social enterprises that one will find anywhere in Australia. In education, health and other areas, they have done everything they could do to prevent our education policies being carried into action in the school grounds. As I said earlier, I represent one of the areas where schools are disadvantaged and where the only thing that can be done is a dramatic attack on the building program under which we would pull the schools down and start again. Everyone in Australia who looks at a television set saw the Brunswick Girls School which highlighted these difficulties. 
So this evening we are here to make sure that this House passes what is Australia's first adventurous Budget for many years in which social programs have been given, a much higher priority than the economic materialism of our people opposite. So we press on. I have just a moment to read something which has been read twice before. We have inherited an Australia run down, with a nonsensical foreign policy, with materialists at the helm who have neglected everything in Australia that was worthwhile. The following comment is made at page 334 of the report on the National Estate: 
The Australian Government has inherited a National Estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. 
Turn to page 334 of the report and see the most eloquent indictment of the failures of the previous Government. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) The population of Papunya at 3 January 1 974 was as follows- 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See table. 
-It is true enough that the workers in the Australian Capital Territory in non-government employment have lagged behind in a number of areas- annual leave, workers compensation and long service leave. We are dealing with all of them. We are up to the long service leave question, which has been discussed with the Trades and Labour Council. It has given us its comments on the matter. We are now preparing the draft instructions to the AttorneyGeneral to have legislation brought forward. When that is brought forward the newly elected Legislative Assembly will be able to examine it along with the Trades and Labour Council, and I hope that before the end of the year we will be able to overcome this discrimination against these workers. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Insitute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964-1974 1 present the report of the Council of the Institute for the year ended 30 June 1974 together with the Institute's financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) A firm program has not yet been established for the construction of a permanent Occasional Care Centre, but a site for such a Centre has been identified by the National Capital Development Commission at the intersection of Moore and Rudd Streets, Canberra City. 
It is not practicable for the existing Occasional Care Centre to continue until the construction of the permanent centre. Construction work on the A.C.T. Health Services Building is scheduled to commence immediately after completion of the temporary occasional care facilities which will be established early in 1 975. 
Occasional Care Centres at Woden (Phillip) and Belconnen are included in the National Capital Development Commission 1974-75 Works Program. Other centres are being planned for new areas. 
As has been the practice in the past interested community groups will be involved in the siting and planning of new Occasional Care Centres. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 15 October be varied by next considering the proposed expenditures for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of the Capital Territory. . The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Is the suggestion of the Minister agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $69,809,000. 
Department of the Capital Territory 
Proposed expenditure, $30,639,000. 
I intend to make a brief reply to some of the questions that have been raised this evening. I would like to thank the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  for his kind remarks about my administration and efforts in relation to Aboriginal affairs. Those of us who have had a part to play in the task that has been placed upon this Parliament to ameliorate the lot of the Australian Aboriginal people will know that it is an enormously difficult task, compounded not so much by the Aboriginal people themselves but by a couple of hundred years of search or no search on the part of governments, of the great difficulties of the continental scope of the question and the sheer fact that in relationships between people of different cultures, different races and so on humanity has not really found an answer in many parts of the world. 
I will take a few moments now to answer some of the questions that have been raised about the Australian Capital Territory, in particular, in regard to housing. Firstly, let me make it clear that the Government believes that the house, as the home, is the fundamental social unit and that any suggestion that we are attempting to inhibit home ownership in the A.C.T. or anywhere else is just plain nonsense. The figures are clear enough. In Canberra over the last few years the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and the present Government have been selling Australian Government houses to their tenants on varying terms. Usually they are about the most liberal terms that can be obtained for home ownership anywhere in Australia. In 1973-74 some 931 houses were sold. In 1972-73-5 months of that period was administered by the honourable member for Gwydir and the other 7 months of it was administered by my colleague, the present Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)-  1,293 homes were sold. In the year previous to that 1,380 homes were sold. 
The point about that, of course, is if we are to retain a stock of rental housing and rental flats in Canberra we cannot sell houses quicker than we can build them. Therefore, the opportunities that were offered a couple of years ago and that we continued until the middle of last year meant that we were reaching the stage where the stock of Government housing accommodation was becoming rapidly depleted. It is our belief- I believe that it was the belief of our predecessorsthat the Australian Government must keep a stock of houses for rental in Canberra. At the present moment that runs at somewhere about 8,000 houses. Last year we received 810 houses from the National Capital Development Commission. The system is this: The National Capital Development Commission is the constructing authority for Canberra. It produces the houses in accordance with programs that have been laid down and the finance that has been made available. It then hands them over to the Department of the Capital Territory. So we have become the administrator of one of Australia 's largest housing projects. But if we started selling 1,000 houses when we have received only 800 it would not be many years before we would have depleted our stock of rental housing. At the present moment we are looking at a formula of sale which will place the stock of housing continuously in front. We have not decided yet as to exactly what the figure ought to be, whether we should sell 80 per cent of the number of houses we have or some lesser proportion. 
Then we come to the question of the sale price. One of the afflictions of the Australian social system is the difficulty in controlling the cost of land and the selling price of housing. Despite the fact that we own the land in Canberra and despite the fact that we have been the major housing construction authority, we are in no better position really to control the actual cost or price of built houses than we are anywhere else unless we implement some system of housing price control, which we are finding difficult to implement at the present moment. So that it might be said that there are in fact 3 costs associated with a house. There is the amount it costs to build the house. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  quoted some figures in relation to some houses built 47 and 37 years ago. I think the ones built 47 years ago may well have cost about £1,200 or £l,300-say $2,500-and the ones built a few years later not all that much different in price. That is what they cost then. At that time it probably cost $400 or $500 to develop the land on which they stood. It now costs $3,000 to develop a block. Then there is the actual cost of putting a house there today. If the house were removed by a bulldozer and another house were put back on the block, I estimate that it would probably cost $17,000 or $18,000 for the same type of house. Then there is the other price- the market price. My friends opposite are addicted to the market place. I am not. 
I think that it is an infliction upon the social system in this regard. In other words, the seller gets the price he can get no matter what the cost in social terms to the buyer. That, of course, is what is happening to housing throughout the country. We have not been any more successful in producing enough houses for Canberra than has anyone else anywhere in Australia. The people who come to Canberra because of the general desirability of Canberra are increasing the pressure on the city. It is a much more desirable and comfortable city in which to five than most others. The people who have standing houses to sell have managed to get a good price for them. The price has risen enormously in, I suppose, the last four or five years. It should not be said that the price has risen only in the last 12 or 15 months. In the last four or five years the price has practically doubled. So a house that probably cost $8,000 to build seven or eight years ago and that was sold for perhaps $17,000 or $18,000 5 years ago, would now bring in the market place perhaps $32,000 or $33,000. There has been some gratification in that in the last few months that price has tended to level out and, in fact, fall. 
I thought I had made the point about the demand side of the equation, that we had not in fact caught up with it any more than anybody else had. But some of the responsibility for that lies in the past. As I pointed out earlier, the actual house probably could be bulldozed and replaced for perhaps $17,000 or $18,000. The position in which we find ourselves, and which bothers me a great deal, is the conflict of principles and opportunity, and the chance for speculation or profiteering. I do not believe that the Government should exploit or profiteer at the expense of the citizen; nor do I believe that the citizen ought to be able to exploit or profiteer at the expense of the community- in this sense the Government. 
So far one has not been able to find a formula which satisfactorily solves the problem of selling a house to a tenant at anything less than the present market value because, if one sells a tenant a house at anything less that the present market value, one hands him a profit on the plate. I will quote an instance. The system has been to sell a house to a tenant with a 5-year covenant on resale. But if, for example, there is some desperate urgency- a person is leaving the city and must sell the house- this is administered with reasonable compassion and understandingthe Government will permit him to sell it himself or will buy it back from him. One such person came to me the other day. He had paid something like, I think, $14,000 or $15,000 only  3lA  years before for the house and he had to leave the city. Somebody had offered Mm about $40,000. We exercised our right to repurchase it and we paid him the amount of our valuation, which is a reasonable valuation- $27,000. 1 am shocked at that The person is gratified at it. He has achieved- I suppose it is happening all the time in other ways- a profit of $12,000 or $13,000 at the public expense. 
-That is the point I am about to come to. On the other hand, of course, the house on which we spent $8,000 on building four or five years ago and which we offered to people at $14,000 three or four years ago, is now in the vicinity of $22,000 or $23,000 and that shocks me too. My suggestion is, and this is what we are examining in order to find a satisfactory formula for the future, that we ought to sell it to the tenant at replacement value. That value is what it would cost to put that house there now with a covenant over it for the life of the house enabling us to purchase it back at the replacement value in the future. So people would have the advantage of the value of their equity in it which will rise in accordance with the inflationary cost of housing but will not be able to speculate or profiteer. I have no doubt that this is a difficult formula to work out. But this is the only solution that I can see to the problem. 
On the other hand, of course, we can reduce the deposit ratio and let people have the houses without having to find anything else. That is what we have decided to do. People will buy a house on 5 per cent deposit and we will supply the mortgage for the other 95 per cent. Last year we lent more money than ever before to finance homes. We lent all that we had available. The amount we lent, which was made up of money from the Budget and money that was ploughed back into the system came to around the $24m mark. Some criticism has been uttered about the announcement made in the last few days in regard to interest rates. Nobody is more concerned about the system of interest rates and the cost of money for housing than this Government. In this instance we have decided that the principles that will apply shall be that interest rates for people in the low income bracket shall be low. The rate will vary from about 5 per cent for people earning 85 per cent of average weekly earnings to the Commonwealth Bank rate for those earning more than 95 per cent. This Government is dedicated to the proposition that it should reduce interest rates but it is an enormously complicated system as everyone would know. 
At least in the last few days some citizens of Canberra have been greatly advantaged. Some honourable members might say: 'Well, who can afford to pay the deposit, who can afford to raise the money and so on? ' Eight or nine people a day in this city apply for land. We do not include the wife's income when assessing applications. We try to make the system as liberal as possible. Therefore while we have not managed to close the gap in land or housing we are gaining ground. I would think that this year we will turn off more land at a better price than can be found at any other place in Australia. It will probably be in the order of some 4,000 more blocks of land. When we became the Government land in Canberra was being auctioned. The average price being obtained for a block of land 2 years ago was rising to $10,000. Now a person can almost get a block of land on demand. All a person has to do is to submit his name and within a few weeks he can pick a block of land from about 30 blocks. The price of land ranges from $2,500 and $3,000 to $12,000 and $13,000. The average price being paid for a block of land in Canberra is about $5,500. Therefore, despite the disadvantages at present, we have managed to create for many people in this city advantages that they cannot get anywhere else. 
We will resume the debate on these estimates on Tuesday. At that time there may well be other matters which honourable members might wish to raise on this question as well as on the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I hope that there will be adequate time to debate them. Any member of this House is quite welcome to take advantage of all the facilities that we have at our disposal to have explained to him what is going on in this city which is remarkably well administered as everyone admits. The city is a demonstration that successive governments have been able to achieve a quality of life, a standard of community development and an environment that is not available in many other parts of this continent. The Government is pretty satisfied with the way things are developing here, but there are many other things that we have to do. One of the great difficulties was the failure 4 or 5 years ago to put adequate funds into the development of housing and land so that we would now be able to meet demands. I will conclude my remarks by just reminding people of the deficiencies of our predecessors. 
-First of all I would like to begin to answer the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  What on earth was he talking about- waste, denigration of the policy? Every word he uttered implied that everything that has been done was wasteful, pointless and destructive. What nonsense. Let us take some of the aspects of his speech. First of all, housing. There are about 25,000 to 30,000 Aboriginal families in this country. Over a period of a century and a half or more a handful have been adequately housed. The previous Government began a program. We have accelerated it. There are now hundreds of Aboriginal families in homes who were denied them in the past. People need homes. They not only need houses but also they need homes. I am talking about the thousands of people in about 400 communities in Australia in which Aboriginal people can be found. Some of them live on the edge of country towns. Some of them live in the heart of suburbs such as Redfern and Fitzroy. Thousands of them live in a community of which they are the total membership. In many cases the conditions under which they live are a disgrace to the nation. Every one of them offers a social challenge, a physical challenge, an administrative challenge and a financial one. We are the last people to say that we have achieved success in all those areas. But there is no doubt in my mind- and I have been very closely associated with this for a long while indeed- that thousands of Aboriginal people are grateful that the Labor Government was returned to office and also that it is pressing on regardless. Last year we published in Hansard- and we will do it again later this yearthe names of the areas in which programs were being developed. It took up some 17 or 18 pages. I have said to people: 'Which ones should not have been done and which ones are waste'. Of course in a program such as that which was spread across a continent such as ours, some of the money is not going to be returned as a clear dividend. 
Yes, we can ask the AuditorGeneral. If the honourable member reads the Auditor-General's report very carefully he will find that it was not so much that there was anything wrong with the program but that someone did not do the paper work properly. But, of course, the people who sit opposite are more concerned with paper than with people. From one end of this continent to the other the search goes on for a solution. There are members oppositeone is sitting in the House now; perhaps two of them- who I know applied themselves with vigour and compassion to the same task. There are more Aboriginal people receiving substantial health benefits now than ever before. In the field of education there are thousands more in secondary schools and they are going to be the ones who in the future will supply leadership for the Aboriginal communities. We have established Aboriginal communities on their own land. We are going to establish more of them on their own land. There are other areas. 
The honourable member for Riverina raised the question of alcohol. Fancy anybody in the Australian community, anybody in the nonAboriginal Australian community, anybody in the previously, led Liberal Australian community. attacking somebody because they had become a victim of alcohol. Tonight in this place we sit opposite people who when in government gave knighthoods to brewers, yet they talk about alcoholism. Of course it is destructive. The difference between white people and Aboriginal people is that after the Aborigine has been to a hotel he has nowhere to go so he goes out into the streets and everybody sees him. But alcoholism exists throughout our own community. It is one of the great destroyers of Australian social life, black or white. So that is one of the problems to which we are applying ourselves. We have not found a solution to this problem in the rest of the community. We are not going to find it any easier in the Aboriginal community. I believe that we ought to acknowledge it and we ought to do what we can about it. But for the honourable member to make that the principal burden of his speech on Aboriginal people is to make it just all the more difficult for the rest of the community to accept the fact that 1 per cent of the Australian community belonging to the original Aboriginal race are still with us. 
My principal criticism in relation to the speech by the honourable member for Riverina is the sense of gloom he put into this matter. This has been one of the very serious aspects of some of the comments that have been made over the last 12 months about the Auditor-General's report. People wrote commentaries on this subject. The leader writers of the great Australian daily newspapers only have to get out of their seats and walk 2 miles down the street to find what sort of things were being done. The ones in Melbourne got out of their seats in Spencer Street and looked in Fitzroy to find what the legal service and health service centres were doing. There are other centres elsewhere. Some of these things have created great difficulties. We know that when an Aboriginal hostel is opened somewhere in the city it will, unless we are very fortunate, create social tensions around the place. Some of these projects have been successful. There are several in Brisbane. Some have been very successful. We know that others are causing tension throughout the community. That is part of the challenge we all face. All I would say to honourable members opposite- and I hope that this debate can go on next week because I think there are some other people who might want to speak- is that what they have to do is look at this subject not just with compassion but with some optimism. I believe that the National Aboriginal Congress, as it is now called, is going to be one of the great contributors to Aboriginal progress and advancement and out of that will come the future leaders of the Aboriginal people. In fact what happened, of course, was that in the course of setting up that body- which was a continental operation in scope and involved thousands of people- a good deal of criticism was made. Some 30,000 to 40,000 Aboriginal people enrolled, including thousands who had never enrolled for ordinary elections. Thousands of them voted across the continent and they elected 41 members to that Congress. I believe that the Aboriginal people of Australia have a struggle on their hands, as has any minority group, but this Government has taken the path which will change the shape of their future and offer thousands of them opportunities they would never have had otherwise. While there are still great areas of poverty and difficulty, in fact optimism has to be the order of the day. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., and in accordance with the order of the House of 1 1 July, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Tuesday 20 November 1973. 
All Departmental employees located in Electricity House. 
250/300 officers and employees. 
Practice fire evacuation- also valid for evacuation of building for civil defence, in the event of a bomb threat. 
1 refer the right honourable member to part 3 of  Mr Whitlam  's answer to Question No. 548, which appeared in Hansard of 1 9 September 1974, page 1 62 1 . 
May I in moving for the rearrangement of business compliment the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  and other members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation on the report. 
I was doing something which all honourable members should do- I was reading the report. 
Motion (by  Mr Bryant)  agreed to: 
That order of the day No. 2, Government Business, be postponed until a later hour this day. 
-As a matter of fact, I was going to announce today that loans for people wishing to build a new home would be raised to $ 15,000. It is true, unfortunately, that the level of interest rates is inhibiting people building homes. But it is also true that the people of Canberra obtain the best serviced land at the cheapest rates in Australia and it is more readily available than anywhere else in Australia. It is also true that there is more home building being carried out in Canberra in proportion to population than in any other capital city in Australia. It is also true that gradually we are overcoming the inhibitions and restrictions placed upon the development of this city by our predecessors. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I am not aware of any evidence that officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs committed offences against the Public Service Act on the occasion of the opening of Parliament by The Queen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The pamphlet 'Motoring Goes Metric 1 July 1974' states: 'The present 60 (mph) speed limit signs* will be replaced by 100 (km/h). " * The above signs give a close equivalence between the old and new figures. The new figures actually chosen may differ in some instance from those shown above '. 
Yes but they have since been replaced with 100 km/h signs. 
To comply with the decision of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, to which the Australian Capital Territory was a party, generally existing imperial speed limits were rounded to the nearest appropriate metric equivalent of 60 km/h, 80 km/h or 100 km/h. Therefore, the precise values of all speed limits were altered somewhat in the metric conversion. For example, 35 mph speed zones were convened to 60 km/h, the equivalent which is 37.2 mph. In general 40 mph zones were converted to 60 km/h, 45 mph zones to 80 km/h and most 60 mph zones to 100 km/h. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I will announce a decision as soon as a response is received from my colleagues the Treasurer and the Attorney-General. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) There are 1,110 Builders' Licences current in the Australian Capital Territory (as at 4 October 1974). 
There are no Builders' Special Licences current in the Australian Capital Territory. Builders' Special Licences were issued under the provisions of the Canberra Building Regulations 1964-71 which were repealed when the Building Ordinance 1972 came into operation on 1 September 1972. 
(2) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Based on the latest data available which are 1 974 accidents to 22 September 1974 the following twelve locations in order have the highest number of accidents reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The table below shows briefly the accident history of the intersection of Anzac Parade and Blamey Crescent from 1 966 to 22 September 1974. The average number of accidents prior to the installation of stop signs on 14 November 1972 was approximately 14 per annum. 
There was a total of six accidents in 1973 and eight accidents to date in 1974 only one of which produced personal injury. Before the installation of the stop signs there was on average five casualty accidents per annum. 
3 ) Brief details are shown in the table. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the right honourable member's question: "I refer the right honourable member to the reply to Question 41 given by  Mr Whitlam  on 3 October 1974". 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) On 15 August 1974,I tabled in the Senate a report by  Dr H.  C. Coombs and Professor W. E. H. Stanner on Yuendumu and Hooker Creek. 
A number of Aboriginals have replaced European employees in former staff positions and have accepted responsibility for the operation of the works force and town services. The Council is meeting regularly and advising my Department of community views and needs in relation to the movement of people in and around the area, the location of town facilities and acceptance of design. " Following a consultative project survey and in accordance with the Council's request funds have been provided to the Council for their employment of 25 men on award wages on work projects of the Council 's choosing. These are orientated toward improving community conditions. 
Provision is made for all-Aboriginal executives of the Yuwarli Housing Association and the Wampana Progress Association. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(2) and (3) On 25 May 1973, my predecessor approved in principle a grant of $60,000 to the Murray District Aboriginal Association for the erection of an Aboriginal Community Centre at Pinjarra. 
The approval was subject to the Murray District Aboriginal Association submitting plans and specifications for the Centre and conditional on them making a contribution of approximately 10 per cent towards the cost. 
On 25 June 1974 I approved a grant of $60,000 for the project. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
(3) and (4) I have read articles wherein the editor of 'The Norfolk Islander' has been quoted as saying that Norfolk Island wants to secede from Australia and that a United Nations delegation may be asked to visit the Island to look into this matter. 
The honourable member will appreciate that one of the functions of the Norfolk Island Council as the elected representatives of the people of Norfolk Island is to advise on the peace, order and good government of Norfolk Island. 
On 7 August 1 974 that Council resolved as follows, 'Council disassociates itself from the recent publicity in the Australian and local press concerning a visit to Norfolk Island by a United Nations delegation and further emphasises that the Norfolk Island Council has not considered such action. Furthermore, no poll was ever conducted to ascertain the views of all Councillors concerning a proposed visit of a United Nations delegation to Norfolk Island.'. 
I have told Council that 1 am sympathetic to them assuming increased local executive authority and responsibility. In this respect I have offered assistance to the Council in formulating its proposals. 
I refer the honourable member to my reply on 19 September 1974 to Question number 846 asked by  Mr Peacock. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)4(2) 
The Department of the Capital Territory does not provide social workers to Commonwealth hostels in the Australian Capital Territory. The Department employs thirty-six social workers and welfare officers whose services are available to all members of the community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) During the period between the two most recent Population Censuses, i.e. 30 June 1966 to 30 June 1971, the average age of new residents coming to the A.C.T. was approximately 24 years. 
No information available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of this nature are not kept by the Department of the Capital Territory. 
Commemorative Postage Stamps  (Question Na 1412) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is the eighth States Grants Bill in relation to Aboriginal affairs to be introduced into the Australian Parliament since the Australian Government entered this field after the referendum in 1 967. Previous Acts have carried the title 'States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act', but the title of the present Bill demonstrates the Australian Government's wish to move away from the patronising attitudes connoted by the use of the term 'advancement'. This Bill provides for a total of $40.79m to be paid to the States in 1974-75 for the purpose of financial assistance in relation to Aboriginal people. This amount represents an increase of $7.54m or 26 per cent over the funds of $32.25m provided to the States for this purpose in 1973-74. 
As honourable members will know, my predecessors developed the practice of using the second reading speech for this Bill as a kind of annual report on the Australian Government's work in Aboriginal affairs. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs is now preparing a report on the activities of its first 18 months, and intends to follow this with regular annual reports. I do not propose, therefore, to set out in this speech details of programs other than those related to the States Grants, but to speak briefly about the Australian Government's general policies and approach in this field. I seek the agreement of the House however, to the incorporation in Hansard of several tables similar to those of previous years. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill is an important one. Its purpose is to replace the Aboriginal Enterprises (Assistance) Act 1968, under which the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises was established, by an Act providing means of making loans to Aborigines both for enterprises as in the past, and for housing and for personal purposes as denned in section 24. Thus, the Bill seeks to establish 2 funds -an Aboriginal Enterprises Fund and an Aboriginal Housing and Personal Loans Fund. It is intended that both funds be controlled and administered by an Aboriginal Loans Commission comprising a board of 5 Commissioners, at least 2 of whom are required in the legislation to be Aboriginals. The Commissioners, who would serve on a part time basis, would be appointed by the Minister for periods not exceeding 5 years. The Commission would be constituted as a corporation with perpetual succession and would be subject to the direction of the Minister on matters of policy. 
The Aboriginal Enterprises Fund continues the scheme established in 1968 whereby the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises may make loans to Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders to start or develop business enterprises which have prospects of success. I draw the attention of honourable members to the annual report on the operations of that fund for 1972-73 which was tabled in Parliament. I should emphasise that the capital fund has not been a 'hand out' operation but has provided loans on reasonable terms to Aboriginal men and women who have sought to improve their economic circumstances by their own effort. The same concept would apply to the fund now proposed. The present capital fund is administered by the Minister as a corporation solely for that purpose. Under this Bill, the Board of Commissioners would administer the fund. It is proposed initially to appoint two or three leading financiers and businessmen, as well as at least 2 Aborigines, to the Board of Commissioners. 
The establishment of a fund from which to make loans direct to individual Aboriginals to assist them to obtain housing is intended to encourage Aboriginals to become home owners. Few Aboriginals are able to provide homes of their choice for their families because they are unable to obtain finance from existing sources. Housing finance would be available to Aboriginals who could service the necessary loan repayments and maintain their homes. These would, until the loans are repaid, be subject to mortgage to the Commission. Only a minority of Aboriginal householders may be able to afford home ownership, even under the favourable terms of this scheme, but the need for such a scheme has been apparent for some years and it is hoped that increasing numbers will be able to buy their own homes with help from the Housing and Personal Loans Fund. 
Few Aboriginal householders are able to obtain loans for the purchase of items such as household furniture and refrigerators, because they cannot establish to the satisfaction of the usual lending institutions that they are acceptable credit risks. The availability of personal loans to Aboriginals who are able to service the repayments could provide the means, in our credit orientated society, for many to attain the standard of living enjoyed by other Australians. 
Personal loans would be available for the purchase of essential household effects including appliances, floor coverings, tables, chairs, beds and bedding. They would also be available to assist with payment of medical, dental, funeral and educational expenses. The purchase of motor vehicles would also be financed from the Fund where the Aboriginal breadwinner's employment opportunities would be enhanced. It is proposed initially to direct the Commission to apply a general rate of 5 per cent per annum when assessing applications for loans for enterprises and for personal loans. The rate of interest payable on housing loans would not exceed the rate, as provided from time to time in the housing agreement with the States in relation to home builders account moneys. The current rate is 5% per cent per annum. 
With respect to housing, I propose to ask the Commission to consider utilising relevant services of the proposed Australian Housing Corporation, the proposal to establish which was recently announced by my colleague, the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  The Bill provides that the staff of the Commission will be public servants and this will mean that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs will service the Commission. In view of the current restrictions on staff growth in the Public Service, it is possible that the extent to which the functions of the Commission will be capable of performance in the early stages may be limited. Nevertheless I hope that the Commission will be able to give some emphasis to the provision of housing loans within the limited scope in which it might initially be constrained to operate. It is intended, however, to direct the Commission to examine other ways in which, for example, housing loans may be made to Aboriginal organisations on a 'wholesale' basis, to enable those organisations to provide loans to individuals. I commend the Aboriginal Loans Commission Bill 1974 to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A lessor or a lessee may apply for a variation of a determination of the fair rent after the period specified in the determination has ended or, where no period has been specified, a period of twelve months has elapsed since the determination was made. In a number of specified cases, set out in sub-section 32(2) of the Ordinance, an application for a variation of a determination may be made within these times. 
Yes, but only where the application is made by a person who became the lessor of the premises after 9 August 1973 and the premises were not leased on 1 January 1973. A determination of the fair rent made on the application of a person who was the lessor of the premises on 9 August 1973, has effect on and from 9 August 1973 provided that the premises were not leased on 1 January 1973. A determination of the fair rent of premises that were leased on 1 January 1973 has effect on and from the date, not being a date earlier than the date of the application, fixed by the Rent Controller. 
An increase in mortgage payments is not one of the grounds specified in the Ordinance on which an application may be made to vary a determination within the relevant period. Similarly, in the absence of rent control, if there were a lease agreement between a lessor and a lessee, it would be most unusual for increased mortgage payments by the lessor to be grounds for varying the rent specified therein during the term of that agreement. 
However, when varying determinations after the relevant period has elapsed, the Rent Controller is required to have regard to the matters set out in section 20 of the Ordinance. These matters include 'the rate of interest charged upon overdrafts by the Commonwealth Bank of Australia' and 'any hardship which would be caused to the lessor or lessee or any other person by the making of an order increasing or reducing the rent of the premises including ( but without linking the generality of the word 'hardship') any loss which might be imposed upon the lessor by an order fixing the rent of the premises at an amount less than the lessor's liability under a mortgage of, or contract of sale in respect of, the premises . . .'. The Rent Controller, however, does not consider himself bound to give these two paragraphs of section 20 any particular weight when arriving at a rent which is fair as between the lessor and the lessee. 
A variation of a determination, pursuant to section 32 of the Ordinance, has effect from the date, fixed by the Rent Controller, not being a date earlier than the date of the application for variation. 
See answer to question (4) above. 
The number of applicants for determinations of a fair rent for houses which have been fair rented since 1 August 1973 and before 1 October 1974 who were waiting, between the date their applications were lodged and the date the fair rent was determined, for the following periods was: 
less than one month, 357; 
between 1 and 2 months, 1,337; 
between 2 and 3 months, 533; 
between 3 and 4 months, 123; 
between 4 and 5 months, 1 9; 
between 5 and 6 months, 10; 
more than 6 months, 5. 
Confucius Plaque at the United Nations  (Question No. 1318) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This matter is still under consideration, no firm decision has been reached. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Approximately 12 months ago during the third year of a five year contract difficulties were experienced by Hallwel Waste Disposals Pty Ltd in maintaining the level of service previously provided: i.e. two clearances weekly from each household, often of two bins. 
The difficulties involved missed collections on scheduled days particularly in the newer suburbs. The collection of waste is contingent on the availability of an adequate and reliable work force and the serviceability of equipment. For a period of about five months the waste collection contractor experienced difficulty in obtaining sufficient drivers and loaders to man his equipment. Equipment also remained inoperative allegedly because of a shortage of mechanics and spare parts in the Canberra area and in other parts of Australia. The service deteriorated for a time, but now appears to be reasonable. 
Yes. In the past six months, the majority of suburbs in Canberra have received the specified two collections per week although not always on the scheduled days. 
At the present time the contractor provides about 100,000 services a week while recorded complaints arising from this service average about 65 per week. This represents a complaint ratio of .065 per cent which is about the same percentage existing during the initial stages of the contract. 
Untidiness in city streets may be aggravated by some careless manhandling of bins but other significant causes include marauding dogs and the people who persist in setting out cartons or plastic bags of rubbish which the contractor is not obliged to clear. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Employment of Social Workers (Question No. 1406) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
22. 
Social Workers are employed by a number of Government Departments and private organisations in the A.C.T. Some of these are employed in the provision of direct casework service to the public whilst others are involved in national welfare policy and program matters. My Department does not have statistics on the total number of Social Workers in the A.C.T. 
Social Welfare Workers employed by the Department of the Capital Territory are involved in the following functions: General family casework; adoption, preventive and remedial work with juveniles, including services to the Children's Court and supervision of probationers; adult probation and parole services; foster care; child care; and institutional services. Questions relating to the functions of Social Welfare Workers employed by other Government Departments in the A.C.T. should be referred to these specific Departments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) Charges were laid against four licensees for selling liquor in less than two gallon lots but action has been taken to withdraw the charges. 
The Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly has under consideration a new Liquor Ordinance which will allow single bottles sales by liquor stores. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply for the honourable member's information. 
1 ) Between 30 June 1972 and 30 June 1974, 266 loans to a total value of $3,474,794 had been approved from the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. 
Capital Fund loans were made to individual applicants of Aboriginal descent and to Aboriginal communities throughout Australia to enable them to undertake viable business enterprises. The purposes for which loans were approved covered a wide range of activities including the fields of primary production, commercial enterprises, transport, manufacture, mining and building. It is not the practice to reveal details of loans made from the Capital Fund since such information is accorded the same degree of confidentiality as that between any client and his banker. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
*In the five years to 1973 the proportion of new residents whose country of birth was outside Australia was as follows: 1969 18 per cent; 1970 19 per cent; 1971 13 per cent, 1972 12 percent, 1973 13 percent. 
*During 1973 the number of settlers arriving in Australia whose recorded intended place of residence was the A.C.T. amounted to 1,157. Their country of birth was notified as: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This BUI is the second in a series of four which the Government will bring down in order to ensure that Aboriginal communities will be able to obtain land and, among other things, develop the economic potential of that land as they wish. The first measure in this series is the Aboriginal Loans Commission Bill which has been introduced into this House after passage through the Senate last week. It establishes the Aboriginal Enterprises Fund and the Aboriginal Housing and Personal Loans Fund. 
The Aboriginal Land Fund Bill, the second major piece of legislation in this series, will establish an Aboriginal Land Fund and formalise arrangements the Government has made since coming into office to provide land for Aboriginal communities. Where appropriate and desired by them, the communities will be able to develop the land with loan assistance from the Aboriginal Enterprises Fund, as well as with grants. 
The third measure will be a Bill to provide for the incorporation of Aboriginal councils and associations. This will simplify and adapt incorporation requirements to make it easier for groups and communities to set up legal entities which can receive and use grants and other funds from Australian Government and other sources and can act corporately for a variety of purposes. 
The fourth measure, the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill, will vest reserve and certain other lands in the Northern Territory in Aboriginal trusts and will establish an Aboriginal Land Commission. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Labor Government recognises Aboriginal rights in land, and moved early in 1 973 to set up an Aboriginal Land Rights Commission to inquire into and report on appropriate means to recognise and establish Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory in the first instance.  Mr Justice  A. E. Woodward presented his second report in May of this year, and the Government accepted its recommendations in principle. In addition to recommending that Aboriginal reserves and certain other lands in the Northern Territory should be vested in Aborigines, and that machinery should be set up to enable Aboriginal claims to other lands to be considered, the report recommended that a fund or funds should be set up from which additional lands could be purchased for Aborigines. 
Lands purchased with these funds should include pastoral leases or substantial parts of such leases for social purposes, as economic ventures or as both, and land in town for residential and camping purposes.  Mr Justice  Woodward suggested that such funds should be seen as providing compensation in the form of useful land to those Aborigines who have lost their lands. Although the recommendations of the report apply to the Northern Territory the recommendations for a land fund are, of course, equally relevant in the States. This Bill will establish a national land fund. 
Arrangements proposed in the Bill will formalise existing Government policy and practice in respect of acquisition of land by Aboriginals. Although the former Government did not recognise Aboriginal rights in land, it did recognise the need of many Aboriginals living outside reserves for land to use and develop for economic and social purposes. On 26 January 1972 the then Prime Minister announced that the Government would appropriate a sum of $5m to purchase land outside reserves for Aboriginal communities, and would contemplate providing a further $2m in each year for the ensuing 4 years for this purpose. This Government has endorsed and extended this approach by undertaking to establish an Aboriginal land fund to purchase or acquire land for significant continuing Aboriginal communities, and to appropriate $5m each year to this fund for the next ten years. 
Funds for the purchase of land by Aboriginals have to date been made available within the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. A number of properties have already been acquired for Aboriginal groups throughout Australia, including several sheep and cattle stations in Western Australia, Willowra and Kildurk in the Northern Territory, Everard Park- now known as Mimili- in South Australia and land adjacent to the Cummeragunga Reserve in New South Wales. The balance of funds already appropriated by the Government for the acquisition of land for Aboriginals will be paid into the Land Fund. 
-The Aboriginal Land Fund Bill provides for the establishment of a Commission, appointed by the Governor-General and responsible to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, to administer the funds. The Commission will comprise a  chairman  and 4 members, at least 2 of whom shall be Aboriginals. Although the Commission will be small and its members will be part time, it will have full statutory powers. Staff to assist the Commission will be employed under the Public Service Act, within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Land acquired with moneys from the Land Fund will not be able to be sold under writ of execution or like attachment. This provision is included to ensure that land vested in Aboriginal corporations cannot be alienated without Government approval. In answer to the interjection of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  I will arrange for such information as he requires to proceed with the debate to be made available to him. I commend the Aboriginal Land Fund Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hunt)  adjourned. (Quorum formed.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) Probably no more than in any other urban centre. 
I think responsibility is too strong a term. The Depart.ment co-ordinates and encourages the collection  or  material through its waste disposal service but the responsibility for its reprocessing and for decisions about the economies of that collection and processing lies with the industrial sector. 
It is not possible to establish a standard system of recycling. The system in each urban centre would vary greatly with local marketing practices and the proximity of the centre to industrial plants willing to reprocess the salvaged material. In Canberra negotiations are under way with paper manufacturers involving door-to-door collections of newsprim and the installation of a large storage and baling depot. Similar steps are being taken for the establishment of a centralised bottle collection depot. The Department maintains a system unique in Australia for collecting all unwanted vehicles, having these scrapped through a private agency and having the metal dispatched to Sydney. The Department is investigating the feasibility of reducing the volume of disused tyres by shredding. The shredded product is used as land fill etc. 
-I am astonished that in this very liberal minded city this situation could occur. It has been reported to me that in one of the hotels, the Canberra Rex, a lady senator was refused service in the public bar. This is in breach of an ordinance which requires that the public must be served in public bars. It is also in breach of the Prices Regulations Ordinance, which requires that goods that have been declared- of which beer is one- shall be served to the public on demand. I regret that people drink the stuff, but while it is legal and while it is their right I shall use any influence I can to see that there is no case for discrimination in this Territory or throughout Australia. I shall use whatever power the law puts at my disposal to bring down our wrath upon the guilty persons. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Consumer Affairs Ordinance 1974 I present the first annual report of the operations of the Consumer Affairs Council and the Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Australian Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962-1973, I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. I regret very much that the  Chairman  of this very efficient Authority is being paid inadequately because of the action of the Senate in relation to the Remuneration Tribunal determination.  His  salary at retirement will be much less than he is entitled to and so higher superannuation benefits will be denied him. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. Negotiations are proceeding in relation to the granting of a pastoral lease for the Aboriginal community. 
This will be a decision for the traditional owners of the land, the Gurindji. (3)1 expect to be in a position to make an announcement in the near future. 
-The American Embassy was granted a number of blocks of land in, I think, the Griffith area in 1948 on the usual terms that applied at that time, that is, for practically no payment whatever. It was proposed to the Government that the Embassy should sell that land to a developer at developmental prices. We thought that, on the whole, that was not the kind of operation to which we should agree. 
MrChipp-Who is 'we'? 
-Me. Once again, as is appropriate to my rank and station, we decided that this was not an area for private speculation. I am confident that the officials of the American Embassy also felt that it was not appropriate that a government which had received land in Australia in this way should make a profit of the sort mentioned from its sale. We have made an offer of, I think $140,000 for the area, or $120,000 plus an appropriate area of land in the new suburb of Kambah. I make it quite clear that as far as government land is concerned, and as far as this Government can enforce it, there will be no speculation on its redevelopment value. We will try to recover the ground lost as a result of the decisions of the predecessor but one of the present Prime Minister- decisions which interfered with the land system in Canberra. 
With respect to the private property of any person in the city, whether he is a member of this House or not, it is a matter for that person to decide what should happen to it, in accordance with the law. I do not interfere- I speak in this instance on behalf of the Government- neither do those members of the Government who are responsible for this kind of operation. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development is as concerned as I am in the development of Canberra. We do not interfere in private arrangements of this sort. Those people who have private property which falls within the terms of redevelopment orders of any kind will, I have no doubt, take whatever opportunity, if they feel so inclined, to sell it at its market price. One of the great difficulties in this city is that currently there is a market price for land and property, there is a price at which the Government is able to turn off land and property, and there is what might be described as a reasonable and fair price for land and property. We are attempting, to the best of our wit and wisdom, to overcome the disabilities imposed upon us by the decisions made three or four years ago. I reiterate that we will give the Americans a good deal in this matter but we will not permit the land to get into the hands of a private speculator to make hundreds of thousands of dollars from it if he can. 
-The fact is, of course, that Canberra is one of the most vulnerable cities in Australia when it comes to the supply of heating oil and motor fuels. This is partly through the fault of my predecessors but basically through the fault of their supporters, the private enterprise people who are supposed to maintain supplies. We propose to establish a fuel or energy authority to overcome the deficiencies, but in the interim we have had some discussions with the suppliers of the various fuels in order to build up stocks in this city and to encourage people to replenish their stocks. I will take the honourable member's suggestion and have a conference with the various fuel suppliers in this city. One of the interesting things is, of course, that the public enterprise supplier of energy, the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority, always maintains a full energy supply, but private enterprise institutions do not 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I will take shortly the points that have been raised by the honourable members for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  However, I think it is important that we recognise the significance of this piece of legislation for the Aboriginal people of Australia. It is one of the most significant steps so far been taken to place the Aboriginal people in a close relationship to the land which they once owned, from which they were driven and to which we now want them to return in a new relationship. I do not think we can overlook the significance of the land to the Aboriginal people. I suppose we are all addicted to the same sentiments and emotions when we think of the plot of land where we were born or where we lived or which is part of ourselves. But we are accustomed to shifting from place to place as opportunity occurs, acquiring and disposing of land as private property. Of course, to the Aboriginal people land was not private property, it was a part of their very being. They belonged to the land more than the land belonged to them. I think it was  Mr Justice  Blackburn in his deliberations on the Yirrkala case who put it in those terms. So until we have resolved the question of the relationship of the Aboriginal people to the land itself it is pretty much a fruitless exercise to try to resolve the question of the Aboriginal people in relationship to this community. There is a lot more involved in it than a simple question of whether the books were right, whether the valuations were correct or whether the procedures followed were in accordance with the book. I agree with the honourable member for Gwydir that it is important that all those things be done, but in our evaluations over the last few years, including those of the administrators of the system during the time in office of my predecessors, we have had to regard the situation of the Aboriginal people themselves in relation to the land. The Government does accept the fact that the Aboriginal people have a title to their land in this country. It is not certain exactly how that title ought to be spelled out in the long term. That is a difficulty that baffled its predecessors. It is a difficulty which we recognise, but we will find away. 
There is the simple problem of the definition of the land itself- whether it is to be leasehold or freehold or something else, and of course in relation to the Aboriginal people it has to be something else. The ordinary terminology of the society from which we have inherited all our beliefs will not apply as far as the Aboriginal people are concerned, and this Bill is perhaps a small step in the direction of placing the Aboriginal people of Australia in a more direct and, in our terms, proprietary relationship with the land. Those issues which have been raised here this afternoon, those properties that have been nominated, are all part of that step. In some ways it is going to be simple enough to acquire land. It is available, and there are Aboriginal people living on it. We can deal with that, but we still have to resolve the question of the relationship of the Aboriginal people to the land in the great metropolitan areas of Australia and other areas in which they have been dispossesed. So although this is an important step and although it is a fairly substantial sum of money which the Government is proposing to allocate- $5m a year over the next 10 years- it is still only part of a step towards the solution to the problem of the Aboriginal people 's occupation of the land. 
Since I entered this Parliament the question of the Aboriginal people and the land has been one of the bedevilling features of Australian politics. It was the cause of great unrest for the Aboriginal people in Yirrkala and the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs has just reported on the situation there. Ten years ago the previous Government made decisions about the usage of the land which totally disregarded the rights of the people in Yirrkala, and now those people are reaping the whirlwind that arose from the decisions. 
Perhaps I should refer to some of the issues that have been raised here this afternoon. The honourable member for Moore had some criticisms to offer about the way in which the Aboriginal Land Fund has been administered, and my colleagues on the other side of the House have continuously used terms such as the honourable member for Gwydir just usedsloppy administration, disgraceful exercises, non-recognition of appropriate procedures and so on. I feel that some of those criticisms ought to be answered. Some of them, of course, the Government acknowledges, but it would not be appropriate for me this afternoon to refer to those things that are presently before the Joint Statutory Committee on Public Accounts. There is one point, of course, that the honourable member for Moore raised about the negotiations of communities who have acquired land to obtain funds to develop it. Of course it is true that there are not going to be negotiations on a mortgage basis of borrowings or loans from the normal financial institutions. But we have the Aboriginal Loans Commission which will be able to overcome that. So we are going to place the communities in a position where finance is available. 
The honourable member for Moore mentioned the Auditor-General's report and quoted some matters from it. Those of us on both sides of this House who have been involved in the general administration of Aboriginal affairs will recognise the enormous difficulties involved in launching programs throughout Australia for hundreds of communities, many of which are dispersed in the most remote parts of Australia, and often having to do so with administrative machinery which is totally inadequate. One of the things we have inherited is the inadequacy in many ways of the administrative systems to tackle new situations. It has taken a long while for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to get itself launched as a going concern. Of course, we have to rely upon other institutions- the State governments, the municipalities and the rest- to act for us. 
I do not agree that there is any future in waiting for co-operation from the State governments. Some of them have co-operated; some of them have not. I believe that the present State governments, particularly those in the 4 non-Labor States, are guilty of a conspiracy against the Australian Government in an attempt to strangle any efforts it is making to carry out the policies upon which it was elected. In some situations it is almost impossible even to get to the negotiating table. There is no future for the Aboriginal people or for the Australian Government in waiting for action in some of these areas by people in the State governments. I do not believe that we are going to get anywhere in waiting for them. The strictures in the Auditor-General's report upon various areas of Aboriginal administration, particularly by Aboriginal organisations, are fair enough. Those of us who are involved in Aboriginal affairs would recognise, as I did when I took over the Ministry, that one of the great difficulties was going to be how to administer a situation in which many of the people involved would not have at their disposal proper administrative systems without becoming too much of a big brother. 
I come to the issues that have been raised by both the honourable member for Gwydir and the honourable member for Moore about the purchases of properties. I recognise their sensitivity to the idea that the Aboriginal people of Australia ought to own property that has been occupied by others for so long. Several questions have been asked and several issues have been raised in this respect. I acknowledge the fact that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government did take steps to establish a land fund and set acquisitions in train. Some of them were done through the Commonwealth Lands Acquisition Act and some of them were initiated along the lines which have been followed by the present Government. 
What is the situation at present? Let us take the question raised by the honourable member for Gwydir and, I presume, the honourable member for Moore of the purchase of Kildurk Station in the Northern Territory. I was the Minister at the time. The proposition concerning the purchase of the property was placed before me by departmental officers with a great deal of experience in the field. As has been pointed out in the various answers to questions about it the valuations had been received from reputable firms. I am not quite sure which firm was involved on that occasion, but one of the firms with which we dealt at that time was the Australian Agricultural Consultancy and Management Co. Pty Ltd. It would be folly for a person such as myself to say that he is an expert in that field, but the technique was to contact the appropriate government section and find out what it felt about it. If a property were on offer in other areas closer to home such as Melbourne, Brisbane or somewhere like that, we would get the valuation done by the appropriate department- the Department of Services and Property- and unless the value and the sale price or the offering price were within the general margin the purchase would not proceed. 
I understand that Kildurk Station is one of the historic properties of the north. I also understand that it is probably worth a great deal more now than was paid for it but it is also very important to the Aboriginal people. Some issues involved in this matter transcend the question of pounds, shillings and pence, or dollars and cents. We strongly deny, particularly in the Kildurk case, that there was anything wrong with the procedures that were adopted. In fact an American consortium was attempting to purchase it, and the fact that we purchased it incurred their ire. The consortium wrote to my colleague, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  complaining that it had been pre-empted. If we had waited much longer that property would not have been acquired on behalf of the Aboriginal people, it would have been acquired by a foreign company. Honourable members opposite can talk as they will, but there is no evidence whatsoever that anybody was prepared to take it for less than the amount that was paid. The deliberations and negotiations had been going on for some time. I am speaking now from memory of something that occurred perhaps 18 months ago. 
The same situation obtains in relation to the Commeragunga situation. The properties of Sunnyside and Glenairy, I think they are, are adjacent to the Cummeragunga community. There were long term associations between Sunnyside and Glenairy with Cummeragunga. It was essential for that community that the properties be purchased. It has been some time since I visited that area, but the last time I did I certainly obtained a great deal of encouragement from the sight of the pastures and the cattle and what had been done for the community. It is true that we could perhaps use the Commonwealth Lands Acquisition Act. I personally believe that it is inappropriate even for other purchases by the Australian Government. In many respects its procedures are too slow. It causes great hardship to the people from whom properties are purchased, particularly if any dispute or negotiation is concerned. I want to lay at rest for the time being a matter that has been discussed pretty effectively before the Joint Committee of Public Accountsthe purchase of Kildurk and most of the other purchases. 
I believe that the land purchases that have been initiated over the last 2 years have been very important towards establishing a proper morale and a proper right for the Aboriginal people because of this association with the land. 
I do not know of anything further that one can say at this stage. The matters that have been raised by honourable members in reference to the Auditor-General's Report have been debated before the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. The Committee can produce its report in due course. However I will say this: The consistent assault upon the Department of Aboriginal Affairs as a waste of money is doing a great disservice to the Government's approach and the approach of the whole of the Australian people to the advancement of the Aboriginal people. I would be the last to say that there had not been administrative errors but in my experience, which now has covered a long time not too many steps have been taken that ought not to have been taken. Not too many steps have been taken in which money has been wasted. During the course of my administration of the portfolio I did everything in my personal power to ensure that when money was paid it was supervised inside the reasonable limits of my not becoming a Big Brother. We have embarked upon an enormous social and administrative enterprise. There have been great miscalculations- for instance, the turtle project in the Torres Strait. It is hard to lay the blame for that on anybody. We inherited it. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  initiated it in good faith as almost a scientific experiment, and it got out of hand. It is certainly not fair to blame the honourable member for Gwydir. I do not know who one can blame. It . was one of those things but we certainly inherited it and I think we have sorted it out. 
I think it would be worth while for honourable members to examine land purchases on the ground and to see whether they ought or ought not to be done. The Land Commission and the Aboriginal Land Fund will create a better administrative machinery. My view is- and in many repects I support the honourable member for Gwydir in this- that I would much rather use Government facilities and Government valuation procedures or systems than use private ones. But in some areas government has not been designed to act quickly. In many of these areas, particularly in the emotional context of Aboriginal lands it was important in most cases that the property be acquired. It is not being acquired as a commercial operation. It is being acquired for the Aboriginal people. I hope that this legislation will establish a more effective piece of machinery so that we can be assured that in the future no errors are made. Certainly, in regard to the properties that have been nominated this afternoon in the House, I deny that any of those were not worth getting, ought not to have been bought or that anybody was overpaid for them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I suppose one hears everything in the end. When I hear people opposite, condemning the provisions for young people in Canberra, after their 23 years of almost total inactivity- the things which they did do were the wrong things- I am astonished that they should take up the time of the House in such a way. What was their activity on behalf of the youth of Canberra over the last 23 years? They sent them to Vietnam. They called up thousands of young Australians, spending their time and the nation's wealth on them. What did they do in the Australian Capital Territory? About the only constructive thing they did was to build a remand centre at Red Hill. Their only interest in young people was to lock them up. What did they dc for young people in places like Norfolk Island where the only thing that can be done for them is what was done when New South Wales was established back in 1 788- deport them. 
I find, as I go through the ordinances and the procedures and the structure of the situation, that in fact the previous 23 years have been a complete dead loss. We face the fact that not only in physical matters but also in administrative and legal matters we have to overcome all that backlog. I think it is worth while mentioning some of the things that we have done in this city. First of all, I will answer one or two of the problems that the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  raised. He referred to the general statistical question. He said that we do not know the place of origin of the young people who come to this city, and that we have no statistics on whether they are married or single. What is he suggesting- that we have some kind of police state in which, when people cross the border, they have to answer some questionnaire or report exactly on their marital status and all the rest of it? That cannot be done in a modern society. It is true we do not have the actual statistics, but it is also true that we know what the situation is. We do know that thousands of young people in Australia are flocking to this city, as are other people, because it is one of the most attractive places in Australia to live. 
It is true, of course, that the people in the hostels are not adequately catered for socially. That is a legacy of the past. It is also one of the problems of modern society. It is true that the young people of today often require a different social situation in which to solve their social problems and to answer their social questions from the situation in our younger days. It is true also that we are taking action in all those areas. I deny that we are complacent, that we are not allowing the young people to participate, or that we are creating an invironment in which it is impossible for them to live fruitfully. 
The problems of birth control, sexual problems, abortion etc are problems which have been rolling down the ages and have been encountered by every generation. In this city we have taken concrete, absolute and positive steps to assist people with these problems. We have established institutions to help people sort out their legal problems. We have maintained rent controls and consumer protection. In the general area of society in Canberra, we are takling the social questions which bedevil all of us. When I refer to young people, I mean anybody who is under 25 years of age. I think about 51 per cent of the population of this city are under 25 years of age. These include university students, people entering the Public Service for the first time, school children, young children attending preschool centres and young married people who have to face the facts of life in regard to housing. 
It is true that, as in every other part of the world and particularly in Australia, it is difficult to maintain private rental accommodation of an adequate quantity at an adequate price. But at least in this city the question of housing is being tackled much more effectively than anywhere else. There are more houses under construction in proportion to the population than anywhere else in Australia. I consider that some government houses are a little too austere but at least the price at which they are being erected is lower than the price for private enterprise housing. One of the fundamentals of housing in Canberra is that it is the cheapest land in Australia- cheaper by thousands of dollars, and is available almost on demand, at the rate of about 300 blocks of land a month. The facts are that people here can obtain the best serviced land at the best price anywhere in the Commonwealth. Compared with other land, it is much better planned, is not out at the end of an unmade road as one might find in Melbourne and is not at the end of an unserviced suburb as one might find in other cities. That is probably the greatest continuing achievement of this Government. 
The creation of stable and cheap land prices was one of the contributions of my predecessor, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Enderby),  who was denigrated by my friend from Corangamite. Let us take a look at a few other areas of enterprise. At Philip there is a heated swimming pool. It would be worth while having a look at the thousands of people- young and old, but particularly young- who use it. The previous Government would not do anything about it. 
We have advisers. Yes, we will establish it. Let me say this: Constructive observations and advice are as welcome from honourable members opposite as from anyone else. We have a large number of advisory panels in this community. I think the suggestion of a youth panel is a good one. We have been using groups of young people as they come to us, as I will explain directly. The Government has acquired and restored something which would be appropriate to the politics of the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)-  the merrry-go-round. Whilst in some ways it is an exotic adventure for a city, it has made a great contribution to the life of the centre of the city. An ice skating rink has been established at the showground and a national fitness camp has been set up near Tidbinbilla. 
Some of these areas of more exotic recreation for young people include bike trails. Most people, young and old, regard trail bikes as poison. They do not mind them as long as they are far away. In my experience and observation of the Department of the Capital Territory and its officers I have found that they go to great pains to attempt to create facilities such as trail bike areas for young people. Of course, they have only to be put in the wrong place and the Department ends up in real trouble. Another exotic sport is rally car driving. I had a look at the way it was conducted one Saturday night. I found that all the members of the rally car driving organisation were full of praise for the way in which the Department, the Forestry officers and so on, cooperate with them. An indoor recreation centre, including a heated pool, is planned for north Belconnen. Child care centres have been established. Honourable members opposite ought to pay a visit to the occasional care centres and have a look at the houses which have been made available to women's groups to provide care for children whose parents are in special need. A women's refuge has been set up. I have an enormous list of these things here. 
It may be worth while to mention that the expenditure on recreational and cultural facilities has gone up by 50 per cent to $750,000 and the expenditure on parks and reserves has gone up by one-third to $550,000. The expenditure on education has doubled and it is now $ 13.2m. A bicycle path, tree lined for most of its 4 kilometres, has been built. A study is in hand to extend the network. So in all of these areas the Government is taking positive steps to make the city more livable and more enjoyable for the young people who find themselves beset with difficulties. For instance, in the case of young delinquents and so on I think that one of the great problems is the inheritance of the form of law, and the Government is tackling that. I know that other honourable members want to speak, and in the parliamentary system it is the privilege of the Opposition to spend its time being in gross and serious error, as the honourable member for Corangamite was this morning.  His  colleague who seconded the motion will want to speak. There are lots of other areas I could cover. I am not here to speak for the young people; I have spent a lot of time speaking to them. I want to acquaint the House with one instance. Six or eight weeks ago I was driving around the city on a Sunday morning, having a look at the facilities, or lack of them, at that stage for garbage collction. 
Yes, it was a Commonwealth car because I was on duty, as I always am. I picked up 2 young men who were walking along the side of the road. I conversed with them. They told me about the problems of the young people at Mawson. I said: 'Well, nobody has come and told me about it.' A few days later I found a group of young people, about 13 or 14 years old, in my office. They had come to see the Minister. I think it is a refreshing feature of Australian democracy that that happened. Subsequently I went out to their area and had a conference with them. They were all aged between 13 and 15 years. They put before us their needs. They said that they needed the kind of place that the honourable member for Corangamite mentionedsome old building or some building not used for other purposes which they could use for theirs. Fortunately we had out there a pavilion on a sports ground which was going to be vacant for six or eight months because the ground was to be repaired. That was made available to them for their club area. It is true that in this city there are some deficiencies in planning. There are no old buildings around. There are no scout huts and anglers huts one finds dotted around other communities. 
Perhaps my colleagues opposite are speaking through ignorance. Perhaps I have failed to communicate with them because I have been concentrating on communicating with the people of Canberra. On the question of hostels, my inclination is to establish a much greater number of flats in the city. The Government has gone into the market to purchase them. I will not take up any more time of the House on this matter. I hope that my colleague the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  will have a chance to say something about it. He has worked in the Department and he was a member of the Advisory Council. I give the House an absolute assurance that such terms as 'complacency' and 'ignorance' are simply not applicable to the work of this Government. Many ministers are concerned with the Australian Capital Territory. The young people of Canberra are better served than people in any other part of Australia. The Government will continue to work towards overcoming the deficiencies in the rest of Australia as it has done here. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The function of the community development officer is to facilitate the development of cultural, recreational, welfare and social groups in Tuggeranong. He was appointed by the Australian Council of Social Services of the A.C.T. and is paid by them using subventions from the Department of the Capital Territory. 
One. 
) The one officer appointed is focused on the developing Tuggeranong area, the first suburb of which is Kambah. 

 Mr fan Howard Black. 
and (6) Funding of further appointments is not contemplated by the Department as yet. The experiment is being watched with great interest. 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia'  (Question No.  1779) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has acted to contain the growth of the Public Service to 2.6 per cent by imposing a staff ceiling on each Department. 
At 30 June 1974 the Department of the Capital Territory had 3,056 staff. Under the staff restraint imposed by the Prime Minister the Department obtained a ceiling increase of 160. To operate within this modest increase, cuts were made in most areas of potential or present activity. 
The reduced allocation of staff means that the Department will be recruiting fewer professional and technical staff, parking inspectors, gardeners and other industrial employees than it could otherwise use. 
Comparison of ceiling increases allowed in recent years is: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Western Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust has provided me with the following list of the location and area of the land acquired by it since 30 June 1972. It has informed me that the only costs involved were $17,148 for the acquisition of Lots M982 and M983, Medina. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Emergency Housing Committee was established by the former Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Kep  Enderby, on 1 May 1973 to examine applications for emergency housing, to make recommendations to the Commissioner for Housing concerning priority allocations and to collate evidence of poverty and hardship in the A.C.T. The Committee comprises five members- The Assistant Director of Welfare Branch, a representative of Women's Electoral Lobby, National Council of Women and A.C.T. Council of Social Services. The  Chairman  of the committee is an elected member of the Legislative Assembly. 
Since its inception the Committee has met on thirty eight occasions and has considered 535 applications, 20 1 of which have been approved for priority housing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Commonealth Hostels operates eight guest houses on behalf of the Australian Government in the A.C.T. Details of other hostels and guest houses in the A.C.T. run by organisations or private individuals are not recorded. 
The size of each guest house operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited is: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the right honourable member's questions: 
1 ) Yes. 
The Racial Discrimination Bill now before the Senate provides that such discrimination will be expressly declared unlawful by virtue of clause 12 and civil proceedings may be brought against estate agents refusing to rent homes because of the applicants being Aborigines. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The present term of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee expires in December 1975. Elections should be held at about that time, although I am giving consideration to a recommendation of that body that the present term of office of all members be extended until after the wet season in the Northern Territory and that all future terms of office be for a period of three years. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the right honourable member's question: 
(2) and (3) A three-year program is being developed in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs as a normal forward planning exercise. The re-organisation of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs carried out with the advice of officers of the Public Service Board earlier this year provided for the creation of a Program Development and Review Branch which has the responsibility for producing short and long term programs to give effect to Government policies in Aboriginal Affairs and for reviewing those programs. 
The Branch compiled a comprehensive program for the expenditure of Australian Government funds during 1974/75 and is now working on the development of a threeyear program for the years 1975/76 to 1977/78 inclusive. It is intended that these programs should allow the Department to respond effectively to the expressed needs of Aboriginal communities, groups and organisations. A number of area programming conferences have been held in recent months to test the validity of this approach in ensuring that the programs take full account of Aboriginal wishes and aspirations. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) Copies of press releases issued by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs are distributed by hand through the Parliamentary Press Gallery, by distribution through the Ministerial Document and Reproduction Service, and through a special mailing list. 
Copies are circulated to Ministers and Members of Parliament, Government departments, Aboriginal organisations, media organisations, business organisations, libraries and political party organisations. In addition a large number of copies of press statements are distributed in response to people calling or writing in on a casual basis. 
A total of approximately 1,000 copies are circulated. 
The costs attributable to the production and distribution of Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this pan of the right honourable member's question. The writing and overall duties of three officers- the salary and administration charges involved cannot be calculated accurately. Other costs are borne by the Ministerial Document and Reproduction Service, which is part of the Department of the Media. 
Depending on the nature of the release, two or three public servants in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Subject to the agreement of the appropriate Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Councils, some 18 exploration licences currently continuing in operation under Section 38K of the Northern Territory Mining Ordinance will be renewed for the balance of their normal total term. One of these licences, EL 130, is held by the Maningrida and Goulburn Island Progress Associations. 
In accordance with  Mr Justice  Woodward's recommendations at paragraph 629 of the second report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission, no new exploration licences over Aboriginal reserves will be granted until 1977. 
ILO Convention No. 100 (Question No. 1373) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) to ( 1 1 ) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard 4 December 1974 Page 4590). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the reply to Question on Notice No. 1862. provided by my colleague, the Special Minister of State. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report on the administration of the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the activities of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs from its creation on 1 9 December 1 972 to 30 June 1 974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to supersede certain provisions of the laws of Queensland that discriminate against Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and deny them basic human rights. Some of these laws are discriminatory on grounds of race and others are of general application. They have the effect of imposing on Aboriginal and Islander reserves a legal regime that is different from that which applies to persons in other parts of Queensland. The elimination of racial discrimination has been one of the major preoccupations of the international community since the Second World War. The United Nations Charter is based on the principles of dignity and equality inherent in all human beings and the Charter provides that one of the purposes of the United Nations is to promote universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race. 
A comprehensive series of instruments has been developed by the United Nations in fulfilment of these objectives. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 25th anniversary of which was celebrated on 10 December 1973, proclaims that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights, that everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set out in the Declaration, without distinction of any kind, in particular as to race. The Declaration and subsequent instruments provide, for example, that all are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection ofthe law. Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence and no one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family or home. Everyone has the right to just conditions of work without discrimination and to protection from forced or compulsory labour. The International Convention on the Elimination of All forms of Racial Discrimination (1965), which was signed on behalf of Australia by the then Minister for External Affairs,  Mr Hasluck,  on 13 October 1966, and to which 81 countries have subscribed, requires countries to prohibit racial discrimination in all its forms and to guarantee equality before the law without distinction as to race. 
The United Nations has supplemented these instruments with numerous resolutions, conferences and programs designed to promote the elimination of racial discrimination. For example, the Proclamation of Teheran issued by the International Conference on Human Rights in 1968 observed that the implementation of the principle of non-discrimination, embodied in the United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration and other instruments, constituted a most urgent task of mankind. It further stated that gross denials of human rights arising from discrimination on grounds of race outraged the conscience of mankind. The Australian delegation to this conference included the then AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Bowen,  the present shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  and the then  Senator Murphy.  Subsequently, the United Nations designated 1971 as the international Year for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, and vigorous programs for the year were conducted throughout the world, including Australia. On 6 December 1971, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution urging further ratifications of the Racial Discrimination Convention and this resolution was carried by 101 voting in favour (including Australia), none against and five abstentions. On 10 December 1973, the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination was inaugurated by the United Nations. The program proposed by the United Nations for action on the national level during the decade includes the introduction of legislation, where appropriate, to prevent racial discrimination. 
Against this background, it has been the conscious policy of both Liberal and Labor Governments to eliminate all legislation in Australia that contains elements of racial discrimination. In his policy speech on 8 October 1969 the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  stated: 
In recent years most discriminatory legislation against Aborigines has been abolished. We intend to see that this process is completed in the life of the next Parliament upon both State and Federal levels. 
In the Governor-General's speech on the opening of Parliament on 3 March 1970 the following statement was made: 
My Government . . . hopes that during the lifetime of the Parliament any remnants of discriminatory legislation against Aborigines will be eliminated. 
On 2 1 May 1970  Senator Keeffe  received a letter from the then Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Wentworth,  in relation to the Queensland legislation observing that, as a result ofthe 1967 referendum, the Commonwealth had concurrent legislative power with the States regarding Aborigines. The then Minister stated that the Commonwealth and the States had been discussing discriminatory and special legislation for some years, and that in the previous decade major changes had been made in all State Acts relating to Aborigines. He went on to say, as recorded in Senate Hansard of 21 May 1970 at page 1750: 
I would hope that the Commonwealth will not be compelled to bring down legislation in order to invalidate some sections of a State law. 
The letter went on to say that discriminatory State legislation was being discussed with individual States and that he had asked the Attorney-General to assist him in these discussions. In a subsequent answer to a parliamentary question,  Mr Wentworth  identified the Queensland legislation with respect to Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders as being prima facie discriminatory'. 
On 19 January 1971 the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  speaking in Singapore, said: 
Racism is an unmitigated evil ... I am prepared to say and mean that we will abolish racism within Australia . . . There is legal discrimination still in some Australian States against Aborigines, but my Government has told those States that those laws will be repealed by those States within two years, or if they are not, we will move in and repeal them. 
However, in April 197 1, the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  had discussions with the Queensland Premier on this matter and he agreed, in relation to the Queensland law permitting the management of the property of an Aboriginal without his consent, that in special cases there was a responsibility to protect Aboriginal people from exploitation. He regarded the measure as one for the protection of the Aboriginal people and not one of discrimination. (Hansard, 20 April 1971, page 1663). 
In 1971, the United Nations Association of Australia set up an 'Australian Committee to 
Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination', as part ofthe United Nations program for the year that I have mentioned. This Committee consisted of representatives from 125 community organisations. The then Australian Government made a grant of $12,000 to enable the Committee to carry out its program. In its report of its activities of the year, the Committee stated that during the year it had repeatedly urged the Australian and State governments to repeal all legislation of a discriminatory nature and to take all necessary steps to ratify the Racial Discrimination Convention. The report stated that in reply to representations made by the Committee, the then Prime Minister said: 
The Commonwealth is pledged to remove all discriminatory legislation against Aborigines by the end of 1 972.I regret that it is impossible to complete during 1971 the action necessary for Australia to ratify the Convention. You may be assured, however, that the Government is continuing its efforts to end all forms of racial discrimination in Australia. ' 
I draw honourable members attention to the policy platforms of the Liberal Party and the Labor Party on the issue of discrimination against Aboriginals. The 1972 platform of the Labor Party included the proposal that the Australian Parliament should legislate against all forms of discrimination as part of a program to provide equal rights and opportunities for all persons. The Federal platform of the Liberal Party, as approved by the Federal Council in October 1974, includes proposals for the implementation and enforcement of legislation to promote equality of rights between all Australian citizens and to remove any form of discrimination against Aboriginals. The present Australian Government has made numerous attempts to resolve these matters by consultation. Immediately after the 1972 elections, the Prime Minister wrote to the Queensland Premier on the matter and there were discussions on the matter at a meeting between the Prime Minister and the Queensland Premier on 28 March 1973. There were subsequent discussions between the Australian and Queensland government ministers responsible for Aboriginal affairs. 
As no action has been taken by the Queensland Government on these matters, provisions were included in the Racial Discrimination Bill 1973 to supersede the Queensland law that authorised the management of the property of Aboriginals and Islanders without their consent. In a teleprinter message on 27 September 1973 from the Prime Minister to the Premier the Prime Minister sought consultations with respect to the Bill. On 20 November 1973, the Prime Minister sent a further teleprinter message to the Premier of Queensland pointing out that, in addition to the provisions with respect to property management, there were other features of the Queensland legislation with respect to Aboriginals and Islanders that were unsatisfactory from a civil liberties viewpoint, including provisions relating to liberty of movement to enter a reserve, legal representation before, and appeal from Aboriginal courts, and relating to compulsory labour and conformity to a code of conduct on reserves. The Prime Minister sought to make these matters the subject of consultations. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs discussed the matter with the Queensland Minister in charge of Aboriginal Affairs on 8 January 1974. In addition, the then Attorney-General wrote to the Queensland Attorney-General on 1 5 January 1974 stating that his officers would be available for consultation on these matters. On 24 January, the Queensland Attorney-General replied stating that State officers would be made available for this purpose. However, tentative arrangements made for these discussions to be held on 1 1 February 1974 and 21 March 1974 were cancelled, due to the unavailability of State officers. On 3 April 1974, the State officers wrote stating that the question of a convenient date for appropriate discussions would be kept in mind and that further advice would be provided as early as possible. No further reply has been received from the State officers. 
The introduction of legislation to supersede the Queensland laws was envisaged in the Governor-General's Speech on the opening of Parliament on 9 July 1974, and a further letter was sent by the Prime Minister to the Queensland Premier on 20 October 1974 informing him that draft legislation to override discriminatory aspects of the Queensland legislation was being drafted. He pointed out that on this and other matters he had sought mutually acceptable decisions through consultation and was prepared even at that stage to pursue that course further if there was still room for fruitful negotiation. The Queensland Premier replied on 1 November 1974 stating that steps had been taken to enact amendments to the Queensland Acts to remove restrictions on the control by an Aboriginal or Islander of his property. The amendments referred to by the Premier were passed by the Queensland Parliament and came into force on 1 November. The amendments permit an Aboriginal or Islander to terminate the management of his property by notice in writing witnessed by a justice ofthe peace. However, the amendments leave intact provisions that authorise the continued management under the present legislation of property managed without the consent of Aborigines and Islanders under earlier Queensland legislation. Moreover, the amendments do not deal in any way with the matters of freedom of movement of an Aboriginal on to a reserve, legal representations before, and appeal from, Aboriginal courts, compulsory labour and the other unsatisfactory features of the Queensland laws. 
It is the contention of the Queensland Government that the Aborigines and Islanders in Queensland do not desire any further amendments to the Queensland law. The Australian Government does not accept this contention. It does not believe that any group of Australian citizens should be subject to laws that are inconsistent with fundamental rights. The legislation now introduced will deal with the discriminatory aspects of Queensland legislation I have referred to. Clause 5 provides that any property in Queensland of an Aboriginal or Islander shall not be managed by another person without the consent of the Aboriginal or Islander and that any consent so given, whether given before or after the commencement of the Act, may be withdrawn at any time. The purpose of Clause 6 of the Bill is to deal with those provisions of the Queensland legislation that authorise persons to enter the premises of an Aboriginal or Islander for certain purposes. The clause provides that it is not to be possible for a person to enter the premises of an Aboriginal or Islander without his consent unless, if the premises were not situated on a reserve, the entry would not be unlawful. The purpose of the provision is to put an Aboriginal and Islander in the same position in this matter as a person outside a reserve. 
Clause 7 deals with legal proceedings. It provides that an Aboriginal or Islander is to be entitled to be legally represented in proceedings for an offence before an Aboriginal or Island court. The present Queensland law permits representation only with the consent of the court. Clause 7 also deals with the question of appeals from Aboriginal and Island courts in criminal proceedings. It will have the effect of preventing an Aboriginal or Islander from being convicted by such a court of an offence against regulations or bylaws made under the legislation unless a right of appeal exists in the matter to a superior court. The present Queensland law provides merely for an appeal to a district officer and to a visiting justice. The purpose of clause 8 is to deal with provisions of by-laws under the Queensland legislation which provide a system of compulsory labour. The by-laws provide that all able-bodied persons over the age of 15 years residing on the reserve shall, unless otherwise determined by the manager of the reserve, perform such work as is directed by the manager or person authorised by the manager. Clause 8 provides that an Aboriginal or Islander on a reserve is not to be required to comply with any direction to perform work unless the direction is given in relation to the performance of reasonable community obligations or unless the work is in relation to an obligation that the Aboriginal would be obliged to perform if the direction were given outside the reserve. 
Clause 9 deals with terms and conditions of employment. It provides that Aborigines or Islanders in Queensland are not to be employed on terms and conditions of employment that are less favourable than those applicable to other employees. Queensland laws with respect to Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders contain provisions relating to the employment of Aborigines and Islanders in accordance with the provisions of awards, but these provisions only apply outside a reserve. There is also a provision which provides that an Aboriginal who is an aged, infirm or slow worker may be paid less than the basic wage or minimum wage prescribed by the award. This provision applies only to Aborigines and does not apply generally to persons in the work force. The provisions of the Bill are not intended to replace the whole of the Queensland legislation with respect to Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. They are intended to remove only elements of this legislation that are inconsistent with what the Australian Government regards as basic civil rights to be enjoyed by all Australians, without regard to race or colour. The provisions that the Bill will supersede are quite contrary to the principles of equality and dignity contained in the United Nations Charter and in the other international instruments that I have described. They should form no part of Australian law and ought to be removed. 
Honourable members will be aware that this Bill when introduced into the Senate contained additional provisions relating to entry on to reserves and conduct on reserves. Against the wishes of the Government these clauses were deleted. It is a legal opinion that the absence of such provisions would prevent Australia meeting its obligations to United Nations decisions. The Bill as passed by the Senate leaves intact the present Queensland law which provides that, subject to certain exceptions, a permit must be obtained to enter a reserve. This means, for example, that Aborigines and Islanders are unable to visit their relatives on reserves unless they apply for, and are granted, a permit to enter the reserve. It is the Government's intention to reintroduce the provision ensuring that it not be necessary for an Aboriginal or Islander to obtain a permit to enter a reserve. It has been suggested that this is an attempt to throw the reserves wide open to anybody. This is not so. What is objectionable in the existing Queensland Acts is the power they give to Queensland officials and councils to discriminate between one Aboriginal or Islander and another, allowing one on to the reserves but not allowing another. Elsewhere in Australia, Aborigines have a right to enter Aboriginal reserves but in Queensland not only do they have no title to those reserves but they must obtain a permit before being allowed on to them. 
The other clause deleted in the Senate and which the Government intends to reintroduce, provides that an Aboriginal or Islander is not to be penalised by reason only that he has conducted himself in a way that is not to the satisfaction of an authority or person appointed under Queensland law, if his conduct was not unreasonable. The purpose of this provision is to supersede such provisions as regulation 14 of the Aborigines Regulations, in its application to Aborigines, which provides that a person authorised to be on a reserve shall conduct himself properly and to the satisfaction of the Aboriginal Council and manager or district officer of a reserve. The standard of conduct now required is at the discretion of persons in authority who have, in effect, the power to arbitrarily eject individuals from reserves. It is intended that this power should only be able to be exercised where an individual's conduct is unreasonable. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hunt)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Australian Department of Aboriginal Affairs assumed responsibility for Aboriginal affairs in Western Australia from 28 June 1974. Since that date visits were made as follows: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The budget submitted by the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service (N.S.W.) for 1974-75 is currently under consideration by my Department. 
The Service is presently being funded on an interim basis on the condition that no expansion of activities take place and that expenditure of grant moneys only be made with the prior authorisation of the Service's auditor. A grant of $9,500 has been made to allow the Service to employ additional accounting staff. 
When the 1974-75. budget is approved the grants will be subject to the normal conditions applied to the funding of other similar organisations. These conditions are that quarterly returns and half yearly audited financial statements be furnished; that the 'Financial Rules' for the guidance of Aboriginal Organisations be complied with; and that payments after December 1974 only be made on evidence of action to commence incorporation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of the establishment of the A.C.T. Housing Authority has been looked at in the general context of future government arrangements in the A.C.T. An Ordinance in draft form was recently reviewed by the A.C.T. Legislative Assembly and the changes it recommended are now with the draftsmen. 

 - Mr Clerk, we have just heard Parliament's own Brutus in action. Stab people in the back and then spend 10 minutes or so praising them. What manner of men are these? For 2 years we have watched them destroying this institution, making it impossible for the  Speaker  to handle question time and turning the place into a rabble. Who are the principal performers? One is none other than the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. In the 19 years that I have been in this Parliament I do not know of any behaviour that measures up to the hypocrisy, the vandalism and the plain parliamentary sabotage of which all Opposition members are guilty. 
Tonight I have the opportunity to name the principal performers. I have named one. Another is none other than the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  the principal saboteur of parliamentary democracy in Australia, a man who will go to any lengths to prevent us from having decent parliamentary elections where all people's votes count equally and a man who at every question time in this House will use his capacity and his special position to break up question time so that no longer can there continue one of the important traditions of this Parliament, namely, that Ministers stand here and answer in the public place and be heard publicly. So they made the life of  Mr Cope  a continual misery in his efforts to make this Parliament work in the way that it always had. The same criticism applies to the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. How is it that Australia is inflicted with 2 men like this at this time? How is it that we have these people leading the Country Party- I will not prostitute the English language by saying the once great Country Party'- that political rump that ruins Australian politics with all its antics and its claims? 
We are here this evening to choose a successor to  Mr Cope.  Honourable members opposite used every way possible to humiliate and annihilate him as the  Speaker  of this House. There was no better example of it in the whole 2 years in which we have been in Government than today. Tonight we are nominating for the position, the highest honour that this Parliament can bestow upon one of its members, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  We have all known him well and liked him a lot since he entered this Parliament. He is one of our principal parliamentary activists. He is a man who knows the Standing Orders and he can look at rules. He can tell when a rule will not work. I give members of the Opposition some advice: Do not try to put some of your tactics and your trickery over the honourable member for Corio. He has had a long experience in public affairs in Geelong, which is his home town. He was prominent in the trade union movement in Victoria. He has the full respect of the Labor movement of Australia. This evening I have great pleasure in seconding the motion that he be elected to the position of  Speaker  of this House. 
Before I sit down I shall say just one or two things about some of the matters raised by the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party. He said that he wanted this House to operate on the principles that the Opposition holds dear. What principles? The Opposition is totally undemocratic in all its procedures. We watched members of the Opposition for years use this Parliament as their own private forum. They trampled upon every part of parliamentary tradition. They use their forces now in another place to make absolutely sure that we cannot conduct proper democratic elections in Australia. But even worse than that, for the last 20 years they have been the principal architects of McCarthyism in this country. They have smeared and assassinated the character of many thousands of people. In the last few weeks we have had character assassination continued even here. It is supported by silence from the people opposite. The principles they hold dearundemocratic practices, McCarthyism and character assassination- have no place in our Austraiian Parliament. 
I respect the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  We will not hold it against him that he is one of the old boys of that redoubtable institution, the home of democracy and keen, rabid and radical spirits, the South Australian 
Legislative Council. We will not hold it against him, but we have seen him here. We respect him. We admire him, and if it is all right to say so in this company, we like him. But ever since he came to this place he has been part of the machinery opposite. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930-1973 I present a statement of moneys received and expended during the year ended 30 June 1974 in the administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I am a member of the following Councils: the Environment Council; the Transport Advisory Council; the Recreation Ministers Council; the Tourist Ministers Council. 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question on Notice No. 41 (Hansard, 3 October 1974, pages 2249 to 2255) to obtain the additional information he requested. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following table provides the information requested by the honourable member. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) The Aboriginal Enterprises (Assistance) Act 1968 provided for the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises to extend financial assistance to enable persons of the Aboriginal race of Australia to engage in business enterprises that had prospects of becoming or continuing to be successful. A similar provision is included in the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act. 
When considering applications for financial assistance where one spouse was non-Aboriginal, the Capital Fund Advisory Committee's practice was to apply the following criteria: 
If the breadwinner was Aboriginal and intended to be the main participant in the proposed enterprise the loan, if approved, was made to that breadwinner. 
If the breadwinner was non-Aboriginal, careful consideration was given to the likely degree of involvement in the enterprise of the Aboriginal spouse.. Where it was considered that such involvement would be minimal, the applicants were advised that they were not eligible under the Act. In the event that such involvement was considered to be substantial, then the loan, if approved, was made to the couple as a partnership. 
Since January 1970, the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises provided 25 loans to partnerships where one spouse was not an Aboriginal. The break-up was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1 to 4. In all cases where tenders are invited for residential leases (single residential leases and leases for medium density housing) in the Australian Capital Territory, the following procedures have and still continue to apply: 
Tenders are invited and a closing time is nominated. 
A formally constituted departmental tender opening panel opens tenders immediately after the closing time. An Internal Auditor attends on a random basis. 
All tenders are opened at the same time. 
Occasionally tenderers bidding for a single site have submitted more than one bid. In all cases the highest bid is accepted. Where a number of leases are offered together applicants can bid for one or all of the available leases indicating their order of preference and the number of sites sought. 
Applications are considered by the Departmental Tender Board which makes recommendations to the Permanent Head of the Department of the Capital Territory. 
The names of successful applicants are notified in the Australian Government Gazette together with details of the lease purchased and the price paid. 
I think the whole essence of the contract is that the power of the Government be reinforced with the capacity of the Commissioner to act. While I admit that the question of race discrimination is something in the hearts and minds of people, and it will not be resolved by law, the fact is that in this country the law is not only an expression as outlined in legislation but also it has to have the look of force or the effect of governmental power behind it before most people will take it seriously. I do not think the Australian community is addicted to lawbreaking but there is no doubt in my mind that a great deal of the force of legislation comes from the prospect of penalties. In other words, there has to be some power by which the Commissioner can enforce his will. As was pointed out in the debate earlier this is an area in which we are adventuring for the first time. It is an area in which there has not been perhaps a great deal of success in the rest of the world, but it has its influence. To create a situation in which the 
Commissioner was unable to act after having failed to conciliate would be to remove a great deal of the raison d d'etre from this piece of legislation. I hope the Committee will retain this provision and leave the Commissioner with the capacity to act on behalf of the nation in this matter. 
I simply want to reinforce the remarks made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  Of course there are powers under clause 57 to make regulations about appearances before courts and so on. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is reading much more into clause 2 1 than can possibly arise. The Bill contains provisions by which, if the complaint is trivial or appears to be trivial to the Commissioner, he will not proceed. If we were afraid of the kinds of results that the honourable member for the Northern Territory predicts we would not proceed with this kind of legislation at all. I hope that, having made the requirement that the complaint be in writing, those thousands of Australians who are still illiterate, both illiterate by language and illiterate by actual place of birth- I refer to Aboriginal people in many parts of Australia- will still have proper access to the resources of the Commissioner. I have no doubt that from what the Attorney-General has ever done and said in this field he will ensure that that is so. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 22. 
For the purpose of inquiring into an act, or endeavouring to settle the matter to which an act relates, in accordance with sub-section 21 ( 1), the Commissioner may direct a person referred to in sub-section (2 ) of this section to attend, at a time and place specified in the direction, at a conference presided over by the Commissioner or by an officer or employee of the Commissioner. 
Directions under sub-section ( 1 ) may be given to- 
a person who made a complaint to the Commissioner in relation to the act; 
the person who is alleged to have done the act; and 
any other person whose presence at the conference the Commissioner thinks is likely to be conducive to the settlement of the matter to which the act relates. 
A person who has been given a direction under subsection (1) to attend a conference shall not, without reasonable excuse- 
fail to attend as required by the direction; or 
fail to attend and report himself from day to day unless excused, or released from further attendance, by the person presiding over the conference. 
Penalty:$250. 
I think honourable members opposite are quite wrong in believing that no aspect of social reform flows from legislation as such. This Bill is directed towards the community in all sorts of ways- by law, by education and by influence. During the long history of parliamentary government many social changes have taken place only because parliaments have enacted legislation. The great deal of change that has occurred in the area of working conditions and so on is an example. I agree that there is a possibility of undemocratic practices which are against freedom of speech, as we would normally believe it to be, unless the Commissioner does his duty with a profound reverence for that freedom. But the facts are that the cause that this legislation furthers is of such note that we have to take those risks. I believe that it is a first class piece of legislation which is directed towards a major area of social reform. 
in reply- Some of the remarks of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  were in tune with the spirit of the legislation and some of them were not. However, I think that I should commence my reply to the debate by commenting on the speech of the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar).  On the whole I think that it could be said that it was not a bad speech, but it was just 2 centuries late. If it had been made in 1775, just a year before the Declaration of Independence and other things that flowed from that, including the rights of man and so on, it might well have been in tune. We hold the truth that all men are created equal to be self evident, but not so the honourable member for Wide Bay. He believes they have to work their passage, that they have to show by their capacity, by their aptitude and by their skill in competing in a society delivered and directed by people such as he and by governments of political complexions such as his which draw up all the rules so that they always get returned to office, even when they get only about a third of the vote, that they should be accorded equality. 
I want to deal with a couple of the continuing furphies with which the honourable member shredded his speech. Firstly, he mentioned that there has been a shocking outlay of public funds. I hear that said quite often in this place. It is .a repetition of remarks that have flowed down over the last couple of years. 
We were not talking about the honourable member's salary. Anyone who examines the record of expenditure of the present Government in this area and who takes into account the fact that it has been made in remote places across the continent and in places difficult to administer will on the whole have difficulty in finding things that ought not to have been done or things that ought not to have attracted that kind of expenditure. I have said that in this House before and I will say it again. It has been a pretty consistent theme of the Conservatives of this country to try to denigrate everything that has been spent on people other than themselves. 
The honourable member got round to the good old theme of alcohol. I will not be surprised if before very long he moves that, for instance, the bar in this place be closed down. I will vote for that. Of course, I am not suggesting that that is a very abstemious institution, but in fact the whole of Australian society is riddled with the threat of alcoholism. Is that not true? Why, then, pick on the Aboriginal people? Throughout history it has been shown that the effects of alcohol on anybody who has been deprived, whether he is black or white, is dangerous, particularly if he is undernourished. Who are honourable members opposite to talk about alcoholism? They gave knighthoods to brewers. 
The honourable members for Wide Bay talked about the further mischief that we have done. What further mischief? Generally speaking the Government has embarked upon policies of placing more reliance upon the Aboriginal people and adopting more continuing policies across the board. They have not perpetrated mischief. They have probably created more aspirations and raised the level of aspiration of the Aboriginal people. I suppose that that has created what looks like mischief to some. In other words, the Aboriginal people are demanding more. Perhaps they are a bit like Oliver in that they got little enough in the first place. I deplore the Opposition's continuing attack upon the administration of policies that have been carried out over the last few years. Some of them have flowed on from the past when the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and a former honourable member for Casey were administering Aboriginal affairs. Our complaint about their policies at the time was that they were too meagre and that they did not deal with the root issues, as this Bill does. 
Other things were said by the honourable member for Wide Bay. I think that I might as well deal with them briefly tonight. They are part of the continuing theme adopted by the Opposition of attacking all our social policies. He said that giving Aborigines equal pay placed them in a disadvantageous position in that it priced them out of work. That is what was said by honourable members opposite about the granting of equal pay to women. That is what has been said by persons of the same type about every social change that has occurred during the last two or three centuries. The honourable member for Wide Bay said that we must elevate these people. I do not know what he means by 'elevate ' in that context. Does he mean that we should make them like ourselves? That is not what we are after. I want to place on record the fact that the policies that have been carried out over the last  Vh  years- the genesis of some of them took place in the previous three or four years- are those that ought to have been carried out. They involve extraordinary administrative difficulties and they involve extraordinary legislative difficulties. That is what we are talking about tonight. We are talking principally about the legislative obstructionism of the Queensland Government. 
There are one or two other matters that honourable members opposite raised about which I wish to comment. For instance, the honourable member for Angas said that he thought that it was a bit rough- they were not quite the words he used- to bring in certain amendments at this stage. The amendments are a repeat of provisions that were a part of the Bill when it was introduced in the other place. I should have thought that it would be logical enough and clear enough, even to honourable members opposite, that the Government would attempt tonight to have them put back into the Bill. The honourable member for Angas mentioned that we will not get far until we have solved the unemployment situation among Aborigines in certain areas. That is true enough. One of the difficulties, of course, has been that some Aboriginal people live in remote places in which it is difficult to create employment opportunites. That is all I wish to say about the amendments. I think that they probably will be best dealt with in the Committee stage of the debate. 
The honourable member for Angas raised an interesting question about the terminology of the Bill. The Bill states: 'This Act binds Queensland and Australia'. I suppose we could have used the terminology 'the State of Queensland and the Commonwealth of Australia'. That is in a way almost a crunch issue in relation to this matter. I should think that it is the first real attempt by any Australian government to make sure that all its citizens get equal rights wherever they are, despite the intervention of any State government, reactionary as some of the State governments may be. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  talked of self determination. According to him the fact that the councils had issued some edict or said that they did not want this Bill enacted was self determination. He has a different view of councils than I have. Mine is based on those that I have looked at many times. However, I give him the benefit of the fact that he has been associated with this issue for a long while, usually in a compassionate but perhaps conservative way. 
What are we about? The principle before us tonight is the claim by the Australian Government that it has the right, the duty, to deal directly with the Australian people, no matter whether they are Aboriginal people or nonAboriginal people. We are not going to tolerate the intervention between ourselves and the citizens of this country of any State government or any other authority where the fundamental rights of those citizens are concerned. It is the right and the duty of the Australian Government to deal directly with its citizens. That does not mean that other people may not deal with them directly, but it is one of the continuing mysteries to me how the State governments particularly the four of them that are in the hands of the honourable members opposite, continually act as though they have some proprietary right over the citizens who live on their pieces of real estate. That is utter nonsense. Governments do not have rights; they have duties. We have a duty to take the equality that the average Australian citizen believes in to the people of Australia whether they live on Aboriginal reserves, in Queensland or in any other part of this country. That is the issue involved. This is key legislation. Other issues are important, including the handling of the railways, transport, urban development and the rest of them, but when it gets down to the fundamental principle of the rights of citizens that is where the thing begins and that is what this legislation is about. I believe that the amendments we have brought forward are part and parcel of that. 
I remind honourable members opposite tonight that the referendum in 1968 was carried overwhelmingly throughout Australia. It was even carried overwhelmingly in Queensland. There were only one or two polling booths in Australia which did not vote overwhelmingly in favour of the Australian Government- the Commonwealth Government if you like- taking over. The term 'Commonwealth' is a good one. It is the common wealth of the citizens of Australia with which we are concerned. The nation said to the Australian Government: 'Get on with the job'. That is what the Australian Labor Party set out to do when it came to government. We have done our best by diplomacy and all other forms that one might use in politics to persuade the Government of Queensland that the legislation on its books has been put there too many years too late. 
So we are here tonight to remove the discriminatory provisions that remain in the Queensland legislation, and to make provisions with respect to the people of the Aboriginal race of Australia and the race to which the Torres Strait Islanders belong for the purpose of preventing discrimination in certain respects against those peoples under the laws of Queensland. What are those areas of discrimination? First of all, there is the question of property. For long enough, for too long, the Aboriginal people have been victimised by a system which in the first place was set up to look after their interests, that is, to manage their property for them. So throughout Queensland are Aboriginal people who must be entitled to hundreds, perhaps thousands, of dollars . in wages which they have never received. The money has been put in trust somewhere. The Aborigines have never got it back and it can never be found. The same applies to the rest of their property. Is there any honourable member who thinks that governments ought to be able to intervene between a person and his property rights just by saying: 'We need to deal with you that way'? 
Then there is the right of residence and movement. This is perhaps the one to which my friends opposite have given most attention, even my friend the honourable member for Mackellar, who said, I think in giving his support to the legislation before the House, that he did not really approve the amendments that were before honourable members directly. What do we mean by this right of residence and movement? Honourable members opposite say: 'True enough, the council on a reserve ought to be able to say that a person may not come on the reserve or may not come on to this piece of property'. What in fact does that mean? Honourable members opposite say: 'That is fair enough. It is their land'. But is it their land in that sort of sense? Is there any one of us who would give to any council in Australia the right to prevent anybody else visiting our property? In the end it comes down to the point that the people on the Aboriginal councils are able to discriminate against families. I saw this discrimination in the Torres Strait myself. Men who had married away from their islands were not allowed to return with thenwives. We cannot allow that to continue. There has to be some other way. Therefore we are considering a fundamental question of the freedom of movement of people and the right of reunion of families. If there is to be control inside these areas, it has to be found in some other way. 
Then there is the question of legal proceedings. My friend the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  dealt with them. I presume that every honourable member who spoke in the debate has visited the Aboriginal reserves in Queensland. Perhaps they have not taken the opportunity to look into the records of the courts on those reserves. If they did they would find the incredible penalties that have been imposed upon people whispering against their neighbours and so on. Then there is the direction to work. I presume honourable members opposite support this. They have not said that they do not. Then there is the question of working conditions. 
Tonight we are placing before honourable members the opportunity to remove legislation that has remained on the books for too long. There is no place in the Australian statutes for the kind of legislation which we are here tonight to supersede. All the questions that arise across the board- the right of Aborigines to manage their own affairs, freedom of movement and the right to privacy- are being dealt with. We are facing and dealing with the rights of people who before the great panoply of government are helpless, and who before the pressures of the competitive society to which my colleague the honourable member for Wide Bay referred are helpless in many respects. So it is necessary to supersede the Queensland legislation, and that is why we are here tonight. The continued existence of this legislation is an affront to the selfrespect of the Australian nation as one of the democratic countries of the world. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I thank the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for raising this matter. It is a vexed question and a difficult question to define. We have had discussions about it. I will place the proposition before the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  If it means bringing down another amendment at some stage, that is what we will do. At the moment the principal concern is the rights of access to government benefits that flow from being resident in the Torres Strait islands. Unless we get round at some stage to asking for ancestry certificates the people to whom the honourable member has referred will be all right under the legislation. For the benefit of the Committee, let me say that it is a matter of concern to many of the island people of this country that they have been excluded. The matter is being considered. I would be grateful for the honourable member's assistance because I know that during his administration of legislation relating to these people he made the general definition as broad and as liberal as possible. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Act binds Queensland and Australia). 
I wish to move the amendment circulated in my name. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  -Is it the wish of the Minister to take these proposed new clauses together? 
-No. I suggest that we take them separately in case honourable members opposite want to oppose one or the other. 
I ask for leave of the Committee to take them together. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
After clause 5, insert the following new clauses: '5a. (1) An Aboriginal or Islander shall not be prevented from entering, residing on, visiting or otherwise being on, and shall not be ejected from, a Reserve by reason that a permit authorizing him to reside on, or visit, the Reserve is not in force in respect of him under a law of Queensland. 
It shall not be unlawful for an Aboriginal or an Islander to be on a Reserve by reason that he is a person in respect of whom a permit authorizing him to reside on, or visit, the Reserve, is not in force under a law of Queensland. 5b. (1) An Aboriginal or Islander shall not be ejected from a Reserve, or be penalised in any other way, under any law of Queensland relating to a Reserve by reason only that he has conducted himself in a way that is not to the satisfaction of an authority or person established or appointed by, under or for the purposes of a law of Queensland, if his conduct was not unreasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
The burden of proving that the conduct of an Aboriginal or Islander was unreasonable in the circumstances of a particular case lies upon the person who alleges that the conduct was unreasonable. '. 
The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  has dealt with what I might call the administration position. However, I want to place on record the fact that I think selfdetermination does not include rights over other people in this area. Certainly, wide areas of discretion should be allowed to the local administration. In this case it will be the Aboriginal people, when our policies receive their final judgment and pass into law. But the fact is that there are opportunities for infringement of ordinary; fundamental human rights implied in the present situation and in the points that have been put by some of the members opposite who have spoken in the debate. I do not think that we ought to tolerate it. As I said before, self determination for communities does not include an absolute right over freedom of movement and the reunion of families that is implied in the present situation. 
Question put: 
That the new clauses proposed to be inserted  (Mr Bryant's amendments)  be inserted. 
in reply- All I can do is give the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  an undertaking that I will bring the matter to the notice of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  I sympathise with the point he makes; but, after all, it is not my Bill and for a long while we have been seeking a definition to cover this matter. I think that to do it now probably would confuse the issue further. I give the honourable member an undertaking that I will raise the matter with the Minister and see whether the matter can be clarified as soon as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Third Reading 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Bryant)-  by leaveread a third time. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
5. 
Never. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) The funds provided for Aboriginal Affairs in 1973-74, the expenditure against these funds and the amount unexpended were reported to Parliament by the Treasurer in his Statement of Receipts and Expenditure for the year ended 30 June 1 974 on pages 1 7 and 53. The details were: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the information below in reply to the right honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Over the years a number of organisations have applied to the Department of the Capital Territory (or its predecessor the Department of the Interior) for the grant of a lease of land upon which to establish national headquarters. I have had some difficulty however in deciding which of the applicant bodies come within the term 'voluntary organisations '. I have interpreted it to include only those bodies involved in social, charitable or welfare work. Direct financial assistance has not been sought by any of these applicants but as leases are normally granted to such bodies on a concessional basis, a financial benefit does derive. 
On this basis, voluntary organisations who have been granted leases in Canberra for the purpose of federal headquarters are:- 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The policy of the previous Liberal/Country Party Government in respect of Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Ltd has not been changed. The Company is still required to operate on an entirely commercial basis and to compete in the market with other brickworks. It will continue to endeavour to sell its products wherever possible including Albury/Wodonga. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Approximately $ 1 70 per transaction. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Government is considering the Report as a whole at present and will hold discussions with the people of the A.C.T. before making a decision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the provisions of Section 34 of the Betting (Totalisator Agency) Ordinance 1964-1973 I asked the Totalisator Agency Board to provide me with the relevant information which is as follows: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The funding arrangements for the purchase of Kildurk Station were on a basis of a $233,755 loan and a $595,245 grant. This loan and grant composition was determined on the basis of the Station's estimated capacity to service a debt over a notional 25 years repayment term at an interest rate of  Vi  per cent per annum for the first $20,000 and 5 per cent per annum on the balance. The funding arrangements for the purchase of Glenairy/Sunnyside was on a basis of a $130,000 grant. 
Yes. The Valuer-General valued the property at $320,400 while the private consultants recommended purchase at the agreed price of $325,000. 
Yes. 
The Commonwealth Development Bank was asked to value the property. Its valuation of $827,000, although lower than the private consultant's valuation of $919,000, confirmed the purchase price of $829,000. 
Yes. The private consultants are employed by the Amanbidgi Pastoral Company to advise on the running of the Station. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) There are commercial outlets for Aboriginal artifacts in all cities and major towns throughout Australia. All details of these, however, are not known. 
See answer (1). 
The Australian Government, the Queensland State Government, companies and private individuals. 
About 30% of the selling price is received by the artisan; the remainder is absorbed in transport costs, incidental expenses and profit to the sellers. 
Probably between $800,000 and $1,000,000 each year. 
Probably between $400,000 and $500,000 each year. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
On 3 June 1974 I approved the construction of a cultural centre at Nowra with an upper limit on cost, including land but excluding architect's and other fees, of $220,000 based on April 1974 prices. On 3 June 1974 the South Coast Aboriginal Cultural Centre Limited received a $2,000 grant for the purpose of architect's fees. My Department is currently considering an application from the Aboriginal Cultural Centre for a further grant for the purchase of land and preliminary architectural design sketches expenses. 
Complete documentation is proceeding with a view to calling tenders in the near future. 
The recommendations of the W. D. Scott and Company Pty. Ltd. reports were one of the consideratons taken into account for the funding of this project, together with evidence advanced by the Aboriginal Cultural Centre Committee, the State Member of the Legislative Assembly, the Shoalhaven Shire Council and investigations by my departmental officers. 
) See answer to (1). 
The Shoalhaven Shire Council has recently approved the sale of a centrally located block of land to the Company. The Council has no other part in the project. 
Yes. 
Contract arrangements have been drafted in broad details only. 
) See answer to (1). 
A further sum of $3,000 was paid to the Company on 2 1 January 1975 as an establishment grant. 
Repatriation Benefits: Ex-servicemen (Question No. 1952) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 (Hansard, 27 September 1973, pages 1714-1715) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which departments are engaged with other departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
Aboriginals: Accommodation in Townsville (Question No. 437) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the right honourable member's question: 
Early last year I visited Townsville and discussed problems of Aboriginal accommodation with the Mayor and other local officials. As a result of these discussions Aboriginal Hostels Ltd purchased 'Nevitt House' in Sturt Street to accommodate 40 Aboriginals. The premises are undergoing alteration and renovation and are expected to be fully operational by May 1975. Additional accommodation for Aboriginal people in Townsville is under consideration by Aboriginal Hostels Ltd for inclusion in its 1 975-76 program. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Grants for Specific Programs (Question No. 1567) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 1 8) The Department of the Capital Territory administers several programs which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. These programs fall into three distinct groups: 
Social Welfare. 
Community Recreation. 
Cultural Activities. 
Below is a detailed summary relating to each group. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (5) I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Special Minister of State in reply to Question No. 1862 (House of Representatives, Hansard, 5 December 1 974 page 484 1 ). 
Aboriginals: Housing in Nowra Area (Question No. 1911) 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The provision of housing for Aboriginals in the Nowra area is met by the South Coast Aboriginal Housing Company, the Jerringah Tribal Council Housing Company Ltd and the New South Wales State Housing Program. 
The South Coast Aboriginal Housing Company was incorporated on 4 March 1974 and received an establishment grant of $3,775 on 21 March 1974. 
In May 1 974 the Company submitted its housing proposal which involved the construction of 74 houses between Batemans Bay and Cobargo at a total cost of $1.8m, the houses to built in stages using Aboriginal labour and programmed for completion in December 1975. In October 1974 the Company sought an immediate grant of $136,656 to construct five houses. My Department, in liaison with the Department of Housing and Construction, is currently examining this proposal. 
The Jerringah Tribal Council Housing Company Ltd at Roseby Park was incorporated on 22 March 1974 and received an establishment grant of $4,800 on 1 1 April 1 974. 
On 26 September 1974 I approved a further grant of $23,500 for the purchase of plant and equipment, surveyors and architects fees and insurance. Payment was made on 22 October 1974. 
The Company has recently submitted to my Department a request for funds to pay progress claims received from its architects and surveyor. 
Proposals for stage 1 of its building project house have also been submitted to my Department and the Company is now ready to submit final cost estimates for this stage. 
I shall consider each of these submissions in due course. 
The New South Wales State Housing Program for the Nowra-Bomaderry area has provided some 37 houses which are now occupied. 
At present 11 approved applicants are awaiting houses and 6 nouses are under construction. 
The 1975-76 Housing Program allows for the construction of a further 2 houses. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The administrative costs for the financial year 1973-74 for all operations of the Housing Branch, including the Commissioner for Housing operations, are calculated at $1,668,000. This includes office rent, electricity and cleaning costs paid for by the Department of Services and Property but does not include unknown costs of other Departments providing administrative support, e.g. staff recruitment by the Public Service Board and legal services provided by the Attorney-General 's Department. 
It may be of interest to the honourable member to have some information about the extent of the Government's contribution to housing in the A.C.T. through the Commissioner for Housing. In 1973-74 the Commissioner for Housing approved more than 2000 loan applications and advanced $24.6m in first mortgage loans to borrowers for the purpose of buying or building houses in the A.C.T. As at 30 June 1974 the Commissioner had 10 793 current mortgages, the outstanding balances of which amounted to $74.5m. 
In the same year the Commissioner sold 93 1 houses to tenants for an aggregate amount of $ 17.1m bringing the total number of tenant purchasers to more than 12 000. The amount outstanding on these mortgages at June 1974 was $88.7m. 
In addition the Housing Operations Branch had a total of 9688 tenancies at 30 June 1974 and during 1973-74 allocated dwellings to 2083 applicants including priority and emergency allocations. 
It is confidently expected that on the basis of current trends the amount to be advanced in 1974-75 by the Commissioner for Housing for loans to buy or to build houses will be even higher than for 1 973-74 and also that the number of new dwellings handed over by NCDC for allocation to tenants will be much higher. At present there are 2997 applicants waiting for family rented accommodation in the A.C.T. The current waiting time is 38 months for a three bedroom house. 
As a result of action by the present Government to increase the house building programme in the A.C.T. the waiting time is expected to reduce considerably during the next year or so. 
In 1973-74 the Government established a Conveyancing Office to handle conveyancing transactions on behalf of borrowers purchasing dwellings with the aid of Commissioner for Housing loans. The cost of operating this service is included in the overall cost of the services provided by the Commissioner for Housing. 
Fees are charged in respect of the conveyancing and loans services and there is an administrative charge included in the rentals of all dwellings so that the cost of the services provided are largely recovered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Traditionally it has been accepted that the responsibility for accommodating students rests with the tertiary institutions. 
Greater forward planning is needed to cope with the demand for student housing and I have asked the Department of the Capital Territory to initiate discussions on development of a future program and future management arrangements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. There appears to be no reason to refer the development of Sections 7, 8 and 9, Reid, Australian Capital Territory to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. 
The issues involved such as population density and street closures will be considered in relation to the overall planning for the suburb of Reid, in an effort to ensure consistency with medium density development elsewhere in Canberra. 
The National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory have met with representative committees and individual residents of Reid, and also representatives of the Trades and Labour Council and the Low Cost accommodation Committee. Constructive discussion has now reached a stage of agreement where the National Capital Development Commission will soon present a draft brief and subsequently sketch plans to the representative bodies concerned with the development of Reid. 
I did visit Darwin, and the people were grateful to see me. There is an enormous information vacuum caused by the misrepresentation of the honourable member. It is necessary that members of the Parliament from all sides visit Darwin to determine the direction which events ought to take. As a member of Cabinet and a Minister in this Government, it is my duty to visit those places in which this 
Government is deeply involved. I might add that I have been visiting Darwin on and off for some 30 years now and on each occasion I take the opportunity to talk to people from all areas of the community. It is true that one of the reasons for my visit to Darwin was to establish better communications on behalf of the Government with the people there. There is no problem with the image and there is no problem with the reality. There is only a problem of communication. 
In answer to the honourable member's question about a newspaper, let me say that I am firmly of the belief that throughout this country there is a need for an independent, publicly operated newspaper system to compete with the monopoly systems, which sometimes sponsor the Opposition Parties, so bless me! On the question of the permit, I indicated that I was visiting Darwin in my capacity as a member of Cabinet and I took with me a couple of members of my staff who were as equally competent to judge the situation. Like the other Ministers in this Government, I take a deep interest in everything throughout the continent. I just want to advise honourable members that a great number of people in the Darwin area regard themselves as totally disfranchised by the monopoly control of the National Country Party, and I warn them against putting any faith in it. 
I respond first of all to my colleague, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who is occasionally right but so often wrong. I would say this on the question of local government: The advent of this Government in 1972 revolutionised the situation of local government authorities in Australia. For so many of them it has been a process of going from rags to riches. For the first time they have access to the resources of the Australian Government. But against what obstruction has this taken place? The Australian Government conducted a referendum campaign in which it invited the people of Australia to allow it to deal directly with local government and to work out programs with it. What was the action of this latter day advocate of local government support? He opposed the referendum. It was not carried in his electorate. All the resources of non-Labor politics, including those of the National Country Party, were mobilised to defeat the referendum proposal. Now, we see their representatives in the Parliament weeping as the honourable member for Maranoa was weeping this morning. However, such is the tolerance of this Government and such is its relationship with the people that it proposes to proceed by whatever means it can. I think that I can make this statement on behalf of the Party that I represent: We will not let anybody stand between us and dealing directly with the Australian people. We represent them directly. We will deal with them directly. No matter how obstructive some of the State governments and the members of the Liberal and National Country Parties in this House become, we will be able to get through to the Australian people just the same. 
I rose to speak in this debate this morning to answer the statement made by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  about Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Ltd. My colleague, the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan),  answered most of the points that were raised. But I think that I should place on the record some of the points about the Commonwealth Brickworks so far as the Government is concerned. The Commonwealth Brickworks in Canberra is one of the oldest established institutions in this city. It was established originally in 1912. It grew to real capacity in the 1920s when the construction of Canberra got under way. It is like the cheek of honourable members opposite to suggest that we should withdraw from the field so that other people can carry on with the brickworks at this stage. In fact, the brickworks is one of the foundations of Canberra. Its products have gone into so many of the houses in Canberra. Complaints have been voiced that we will reorganise and re-equip the works. In fact, we are to do this. 
Currently, the Works are situated at Yarralumla in a spot that should be used for some other purpose. The brickworks will be transferred to the Crace area and will be re-equipped with the best equipment that can be obtained anywhere in the world. The brickworks will be equipped in what might be called a private enterprise way, that is, with borrowed money. Of course, the Australian Government supports this by guarantee, but in fact it will be done without calling upon the resources of the Australian people through budgetary arrangements. This is creating employment on the outskirts of Melbourne where a firm will be involved in the manufacture of most of the equipment. I give an undertaking that the directors of the Board of the Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Ltd have examined this matter with great responsibility and have produced a program of development which will make the works one of the most modern brickworks in the world. But honourable members opposite suggest that we ought not to do this. They suggest that we ought not to reequip the works and that we ought to go out of business. This represents a threat to employment in this city. 
One of the great disadvantages of Canberra is the inability to supply a variety of employment. There is not enough diversity of industry. Part of what diversity there is comes from the Commonwealth Brickworks. Of course, it is also a fundamental requirement of the housing programs of Canberra to have the bricks readily available at a local source. The profitability of the works is not high, no higher than is that of any other brickworks. It is not subsidised by anybody. It operates on its own resources. But because we have the brickworks, we have an effective form of price control. It is probably a much better form of price control than anything that could be implemented through legislation. So while some types of Canberra bricks are more expensive than those from other brickworks , some of them sell at lower prices. But whilst the production remains as it is, with a capacity even on the present site of about 600,000 bricks a week- it is currently producing about 320,000 bricks a week- other brickworks cannot raise their prices. They know that they have to compete. What is wrong with that? I thought that that was a fundamental point of our opponent's philosophy. But apparently it is not any more. 
I would like to thank those people who conduct the Commonwealth Brickworks. The enterprise is a successful marrying of public ownership and private enterprise techniques. There is a board of directors.  Mr Arthur  Kenyon, a prominent and I hope successful local businessman in this city, is the  chairman  of the board.  Mr Colin  Davis, one of the senior officers of my Department, is a member of the board. Professor Olsson from Sydney brings great skills and intelligence to bear in the board's considerations. We also have on the board a person who is well known to everybody with any real sense of Aus.tralian history. I refer to  Mr W.  J. O'Reilly of test cricket fame who is a brickmaker from way back. This is a very important Australian Government enterprise. It is an example of what can be done when the resources of the public are married to the techniques that have been developed over the last three or four centuries by private enterprise. I would think that every honourable member and every person in the community would not only be glad and grateful that the brickworks are there but also would encourage its continuance and would encourage others to go and do likewise. The brickworks are an important part of Canberra's history. I am astonished that anybody outside the works for competitive reasons or inside the works for other reasons should want this activity to be diminished. 
I apologise to the honourable member for Balaclava that I was not able to be in the House during most of his speech. But I will obtain the information about profitability, expenditure and the other matters for him and make sure that he receives it. If he cares to place a question on the notice paper, I will see that the information is incorporated in Hanard in reply to that question because there is no reason to be ashamed in any way of the activities of the Commonwealth Brickworks. 
I am rather astonished at the way in which my 2 colleagues from the other side of the House, the honourable members for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and Moreton  (Mr Killen)  have assaulted the court system of Australia and, I suppose at least by implication, the High Court of Australia. The implication that because somebody is appointed to the bench for life he will bring to his judgments a doddering senility and all the rest of it falls ill from their lips. I am certain that this clause is one of the contributions which this Family Law Bill will make to matters associated with divorce and the dissolution of marriage. I rise to say a word in defence of those people who have recently been appointed to courts by this Government. They are of great distinction and integrity. They have the same kind of skill as have any others who have been appointed to the courts. I cannot understand the sneers which the 2 honourable gentlemen have hurled at this suggestion of a Family Court, at the people who may be appointed to it and at the probability of people who are appointed to the Federal jurisdiction being able to carry out their duties. I think that to this extent the honourable members have sullied the debate. 
There is another factor to be considered. There are the 2 territories of the Commonwealth which require the same kind of systems and institutions in this field as those of the States. I simply make the point that there can be no retiring age for judges unless we are prepared to take steps to amend the Constitution. I can quite imagine what honourable members would do if we proposed that for a referendum. Unless we are prepared to take steps to do something like that we have to accept what is in the Constitution and all its implications. I do not like the way in which honourable members have spoken about the people who are presently sitting on courts, but I am quite certain that there is a necessity for a Federal court. Until we find some alternative to the solution of problems which arise between people involved in the dissolution of marriage, it will be difficult to go past the experience of courts in handling human problems. Therefore I hope that the Committee will reject the specious arguments put by the 2 gentlemen opposite. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) There are 23 people currently employed as Social Worker. Their names and the dates of their appointment to the Department of the Capital Territory (Interior) are:- 
-Of course there is a sense of urgency. It is 143 years late. We have just heard the political dinosaur, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  explaining why we should retain- and take a long time debating it- a political system which belongs to the past. I ask him to go to the Parliamentary Library and look at the 1 832 redistribution. It is typical of the redistributions that the Australian Country Party brought down. For 143 years we have been attempting to get to the point where, in this Parliament at least, the political issues will be decided by the equal votes of equal and free people. This country was one of the first in the world to give votes to women. It is the country that introduced the secret ballot. It has been a long and proud boast that in Australia we have a free democracy. Yet at this moment in 1975 we still have in the Opposition advocates of unequal redistribution for political gerrymandering and rigging of ballots. 
So this afternoon we are debating the issues no longer. The time has come when the majority vote of the members of this House representing the people of Australia says: 'Get on with the job, straighten it out and let the political prehistorians who inhabit the Opposition benches cry as they may. ' Their time has passed. They will go into prehistory, to which their political attitudes belong. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report for the Territory of Norfolk Island for the year ended 30 June 1974. I think the Island's economy is worthy of a lot of study. 
I move: 
That the amendment made by the Senate to amendment No. 1 of the House of Representatives be agreed to. 
The amendment carried by the Senate resolves some of the difficulties posed in debate in both Houses on this matter. The Government has agreed to the proposition put in the other place and I suggest it be adopted forthwith. 
I still view the provision with the same reservations I had when the matter was debated here. I hope that we will pay proper regard to the need to preserve the civil rights involved in this legislation. Councils may well be self determinants, or whatever the correct word may be for people carrying out the function of self determination, but in the long history of human affairs the exercise of the kind of authority posed in this legislation often has been to the disadvantage of many people. We on this side of the House are concerned that the legislation become operable as soon as possible. It is a very important piece of legislation and we do not think it ought to be held up because of debates in this area. 
Yes. I suggest that honourable members in all parties in this House, as well as those in the other place, pay constant regard to the need to preserve the rights of freedom of movement as well as all the other privileges that ought to appertain to people. We do not want to surrender too many rights over individuals to any sort of legislative body- the House of Representatives, the Senate or an- Aboriginal council on a reserve. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question on notice No. 306 (Hansard, 14May 1975, page 2297). 
Department of the Capital Territory: Grants for Specific Programs (Question No. 2122) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question on notice No. 1567 (Hansard, 14 May 1975, pages 2297 and 2298). 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States (Question No. 2124) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question on notice No. 64 (Hansard, 6 March 1975, page 1238). 
The first duty of the Fuel Authority is to overcome the deficiencies imposed upon Canberra by the neglect of previous governments and by the failure of private enterprise to maintain a consistent supply of fuel in times of crisis. So logically, arising out of previous crises, it was necessary to take steps to ensure that, no matter what comes or goes, there will be adequate fuel in this city, because of its particular and peculiar vulnerability. The first task of the Authority will be to ensure that there is a continuing source of supply. It also will be necessary to co-ordinate both public and private usages of fuel. The Authority has both a short term and a long term function. In the short term it is to overcome the immediate deficiencies and in the long term it is to rationalise the consumption of energy resources in this city. I hope that it will be a model to the States to go and do likewise. 
The Authority will take over responsibility for the reticulation of gas when it reaches Canberra perhaps next year, as my colleague the Minister for Minerals and Energy advises me, and it will co-ordinate the usage of electricity. It will control and develop resources and storages of heating oils. One would hope that ultimately it would be able to be adventurous enough to deal with such matters as solar energy, bio-gas and centralised heating systems. Local petrol dealers are inclined to worry about price cutting, but that is not one of the Authority's objectives. It will not be competitive in that sense. The petrol sites which will be controlled by the Authority may well be leased to private citizens or particularly to community groups. It is a model for the rest of Australia, as are so many good things which are happening in this city under the present Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) ( a ) Rates charged for transport by VIP cars owned by Department of the Capital Territory in Canberra are $ 1 4.40 per hour plus 10 cents per mile or 6.5 cents per kilometre. These rates are calculated in the following manner: 
I simply want to place on record the feeling of loss that I am sure the passing of Bert Milliner brings to the people of the Australian Capital Territory as well as to me, in particular, as the Minister for the Capital Territory. I wish also to place on record a tribute to the work that he did as the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. Membership of a parliamentary committee can be a mixed blessing. It can bring its frustrations. Chairmanship can do this even more so. But the people of the Australian Capital Territory can be grateful for the service that  Senator Milliner  gave in attempting to create a formula upon which the further progress of this community towards selfgovernment could be advantaged. I deeply regret his passing.  His  death is more than just a loss to this parliament or to his family; it is a loss to the people he was serving in the capacity of  Chairman  of that Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I consider that the introduction of poker machines to the A.C.T. is a matter which must be very carefully considered by the community and its representatives. For this reason, I have encouraged many individuals and community organisations to convey their views both to me and to their representatives in the Legislative Assembly. In addition, I have referred the matter to the Legislative Assembly, which is representative of the Canberra community, for their careful consideration. 
In view of my active encouragement of an expression of views by the community, I do not consider that it would be appropriate for me to unilaterally insist on the holding of a referendum. The appropriate Ordinance, will however, be tabled in the Parliament and it is open for any Member of the Parliament to move appropriately for the holding of a referendum at that stage. 
The answer to the right honourable member's  queston  is as follows: 
1 ) The following is a list of publications prepared by the Department of the Capital Territory for distribution to the public. 
PUBLICATIONS Sale Price 
Botanic Gardens Pamphlet 
Botanic Gardens for Children 
Canberra Your Capital 
Facts About the A.C.T. 
Canberra Captain Cook Memorial 
Embassies in Canberra 
Facts at a Glance 
Geology of Tidbinbilla 
Carillion 
Noise 
Consumer Protection and You 
I am a little surprised that the Senate, after its long battle to get some action on this matter, should delay it by this method. In a long history of parliamentary endeavour there is nothing more designed to delay things than seeking to amend running affairs. The Senate itself has played a fairly effective part in having a decision made on the location of the new permanent parliament house. I think it is fairly obvious from all our experience that if you want something done you hand it to someone whose function it is to determine that question and that question alone. This resolution from the Senate and the support from some members of the Opposition will only help to confuse matters because it is a different question altogether. 
The question of accommodation in this building at the present moment is under review by the Joint House Committee, as I understand it. I also understand that submissions have been made already and are in the process of being made ready for presentation to the appropriate authorities. In fact, expenditure on this building is a matter that involves serious architectural constraints. It is a very difficult question and one which can be resolved only by close study by the appropriate authorities and the experts. There is not all that much that we can do about it. Consideration of a new and permanent parliament house and the function of the committee that we want established as soon as possible will call for the greatest possible intellectual effort and continual study, work and consideration. It will not be a sinecure. In the first instance we are going to erect a building which will be totally different from any other building in this country- not because it will be contemporary but because for the first time someone will be setting out to construct a building for a modern parliament and for that alone. 
I was a member of the original committee which examined the requirements of a new and permanent parliament house and brought down its report some 7 or 8 years ago on the functional relationship of the building and the accommodation that would be required. We travelled around the world and we investigated a number of other parliament houses. The thing that struck me- I presume it made the same impact upon the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  who was a member of that committee- was that although some very fine buildings had been designed and built they did not cater for the functions of parliament. The Parliament House building in Kuala Lumpur, for instance, looks well on a postcard. The building in Delhi represents another architect's vision of what a parliament house ought to be, but it has been designed without much consultation with parliamentarians. In Rome and Bonn the staff are working under constraints imposed by old buildings. The British Houses of Parliament are a magnificent building but totally inadequate, as is the building in Ottawa which was mentioned by my friend the- honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd). 
The function of parliament as an institution is totally different from its function in the past. Great demands are placed upon the people who work in it. The general public are increasingly attracted to visit it. The people in it have an increasing workload and there is an increasing work force. In a way the parliamentary institution now has to include executive functions, legislative functions and the general accommodation of the people who work in it. The Committee that has been set up has a very difficult and involved task before it. I can only hope that it will get on with the job and, in the not too distant future, produce designs which will be a substantial advance on anything that has been produced so far anywhere else. I fondly hope that it will create a new style of architecture for Australia. 
This matter has been fraught with unusual and unnecessary delays. The Committee produced its report about 7 years ago. This House decided by a small majority that the new parliament house ought to be on Camp Hill. The Senate decided by a large majority that it ought to be on Capital 
Hill. I think that the majority in favour of the Capital Hill site was about thirty, there being a total of 185 members at that time. The then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  perhaps acting in concert with his Cabinet but perhaps not, just announced in the House that as the Parliament could not make up its mind about the matter the Government itself would decide on it. He said: 'We will put it on Camp Hill'. One would have thought that even a Liberal Prime Minister would have been able to add up two simple numbers. 
That is right. One would have thought that there were only two ballot boxes in that election- one in the Senate and one in the House of Representatives- and that even a Liberal Prime Minister, dedicated to electoral inequality as all Liberals are- all except my friend from Griffith- would have been able to add them together and say that the majority was in favour of Capital Hill. But he did not do that. The result is that for 7 years there has been a complete delay, and the person principally responsible must be the right honourable member for Higgins. If it had not been for his intervention in that way the building would now be half completed. So I think that it would be an important contribution to alacrity in this matter if the Opposition did not vote against the motion and if we relayed to the Senate the unanimous view of this House that the Committee should get on with the job as it was defined by this House in the first place and that the function, the subject of the Senate's resolution, be returned to the respective House committees to establish the accommodation needs. As I understand it from information I have received, submissions have been largely completed on the matter. This is a totally different function from the design of the new and permanent parliament house. Therefore I suggest that this House carry the motion without division so that the Senate will be encouraged to make its decision without delay. 
The transportation of the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  from a place on the right of the  Speaker  to the left of the  Speaker  does not seem to have moved him any closer to 1975. He talks in the cliches of the past 15 or 20 years. He talks about a reservoir of good will to our friends in the world, but for some mysterious reason according to him our friends of the world include a small proportion only of the countries of the world. We hold a totally different view of Australia's relationships with the other countries on this globe. We believe that we have to establish good working relationships with all governments and all peoples, regardless of their politics. We do not like the politics of many of them. However, we recognise the fact that the world is made up of a large number of independent units and nations and that every one of them has its place in the new world of the 1970s. But it is not the world of the past in which the ANZUS Treaty was written. Some of its principles still appertain, of course, because there are nations with whom we have such a close affinity that it is absolutely essential that we retain that affinity. We can always expect them to be friendly towards us in times of peril or need, although times of peril and need seem to be occurring less often in this decade than they did in the past. Unfortunately our friends opposite always like to live as though the peril were just around the corner. 
Honourable members will remember the leaflets that the Liberal Party put out during the 1966 election asking where we were going to stop the downward thrust of communism. The honourable member for Kooyong is still thinking in those old cliches here tonight. The Australian Government does not attack the United States Government. It reserves its right to have opinions about the policies of other nations. It reserves its right to express opinions about other nations which abut our own. Opposition members talk as though they might act as a partner with the United States of America, and of course they can not. They prefer not to be just the junior partner, but more often a satellite. The North West Cape communications station is a direct product of the previous Government's acting as a satellite in foreign affairs- not acting as innovators or being self-reliant on independent. The Australian Labor Party has always held a very strong view about foreign bases and facilities. The party's platform says: 
Labor  is  opposed to the existence of foreign-owned, controlled or -operated bases and facilities in Australian territory, especially if such bases involve a derogation from Australian sovereignty. 
Labor is not opposed to the use of Australian bases and facilities by Allies in war-time, or in periods of international tension involving a threat to Australia, provided that Australian authority and sovereignty are unimpaired, and provided that Australia is not involved in hostilities without Australia 's consent. 
The tenure of these bases and facilities by other powers should not be of such a character as to exclude properly accredited access by authorised Australians charged with the duty of evaluating Australian defence policy, whether members of the Australian Parliament, defence departments or armed services. 
Tonight we are discussing a relic of the previous Government, one of its worst aberrations, one of its most mischievous operations, one of the more malevolent aberrations of its foreign policy, one of the inflictions upon Australia which could well have involved us in war and destruction without any possibility of intervention on our behalf. It was the final product of the previous Government's total deficiency in foreign policy in the 1 950s and 1 960s. My friend from Kooyong asks: Why is it obnoxious?' It is obnoxious because if offends the very principles on which the Labor Party has always approached its duties to the nation and its relationships with the rest of the world. Australian sovereignty and authority over any part of our territory must not be impaired. This agreement as originally written abdicated our responsibilities and our sovereignty. 
I must address myself to one or two other points made by the honourable member for Kooyong. The first is in relation to Diego Garcia. This is another relic of the past. It is a flow-on from previous relationships that developed between the United States of America and Russia and their attitude to China. I believe, as most of the nations around the Indian Ocean believe, that this base is irrelevant today. It adds nothing to the security of the area to establish bases throughout the Indian Ocean. We ought to attempt to persuade the leaders of both nations involved- the Americans and the Russians- to retire gracefully to nearer their own homelands. The honourable member asked whether the 
Government is in favour of alignment. The Government is not neutral but is chooses its own friends and it chooses the time and place for its commitments. In the modern world there is no possibility of establishing a commitment which could still be valid in 13 years time. The Government reserves its right to make commitments as the time and place warrant. So to that extent we are unaligned. We are unaligned with other people's errors. We are aligned with other people's needs, other people's rights and other people's duties. We reserve our right to be selfreliant and independent in foreign policies. 
But we also honour the obligations imposed upon us by the past. We still accept the agreement which was written by our predecessors. We recognise that it is necessary for this Government to continue the agreements of the past. We have no intention to dishonour our obligations that flow from them, no matter how much we may disagree with them. I think that that is probably the message of tonight for the Australian people. At the time when this agreement was written, the Australian Labor Party was opposed to it. Many of us in the Labor Party regarded it as a fundamental abdication of our rights and our duties. It placed us in an impossible position in foreign affairs. We made no apology for our attitude then and we make no apology for our attitude now. The history of the Australian Labor Party's attitude in foreign affairs is a history of attempting to escape from the shackles of the past and the obsessions and inhibitions of the Opposition. In the past we were always seen to be dependent on somebody. In the first 40 or 50 years of this century, it was the British. In the last 20 or 30 years, it was supposed to be the United States of America. We always rejected this role of dependence and we always will reject it. Our attitude is to be self reliant and dependent and to be ready wherever we are involved. 

 Mr BRYANTOf course, members of the Opposition are indicating their role and attitude by their interjections. They say that this is unrealistic. Of course, they find it easier to buy goods overseas and get their foreign policies from other countries. They are totally dependent on others for their foreign policy. During the 20 years that I have been a member of this House I do not recall one sensible, independent, constructive contribution on foreign policy from any of the honourable members opposite. They were always continuing the  cliches  of the past. If they could get them from some text book written in America or from the speech of some American President, that is what they would do. They have had a total misunderstanding of the world situation. Of course, they say in 1975 that the threats that appeared to exist in 1945 and 1955 are still with us. When will they look at the world as it stands in 1975? This is a totally different world and they know it. They find it much more useful and much easier to try to stir the threats of fear and hysteria of the past and try to capitalise on them politically. 
This communications base is a product of American policy. That would be well enough were we so totally involved in America's commitment that we should accept not only the commitment to America but also the punishment that may flow from any strategic errors which that country perpetrated. The Americans set out to establish a global weapons system. They saw the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as the threat of the 1950s and the early 1960s. Of course, subsequently they chose to see the People's Republic of China also as a threat. I believe that history shows and with hindsight - 
Honourable members would think that with hindsight even the honourable member for Boothby could understand the position. He does not need to think these things out; he can even read them for himself. I believe that with hindsight from honourable members opposite and a proper appreciation from members on this side of the House it can be seen that most of those threats which created the tensions of the 1950s and 1960s were non-existent. 
I turn to the position that existed at the end of the Second World War in 1945 and the subsequent events and relationships between nations involved in the world scene. It is now a pretty firmly held view in many quarters- not of the right or of the left but of independent observers around the world- that the United States of America over-reacted to the Russian situation. So it ringed the world with bases. It ringed the world with submarines ready to fire upon both continental Russia and continental China. We allowed ourselves - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Hume, who is attempting to interject, is out of order on 2 counts and I suggest that he cease interjecting. 
-The honourable member for Hume knows little of the matter. He may well listen and be educated on the subject. The facts are that once we allowed this base to be established on Australian shores we became the target for any counter-action by the Russians against anything the Americans could do. We placed ourselves in a situation where we could have been involved in a war or a war-like action without any possibility of intervention on our part and without any possibility of our preventing that happening to us. Perhaps we could even be held as hostage because we would be much more expendable than the cities of America. 
I make no apology tonight for repeating the spirit of the words which we uttered 10 or 12 years ago. I and the Labor movement believe that the abdication of the sovereignty over our own territory in situations such as this gets pretty close to treachery. I hold a very strong view about this. I can have no respect for the people who initiated it, or who sponsored it, or who still support it. I believe they did a great disservice to the Australian people and to Australia's role in the world. The original agreement which was signed meant that we accepted a total involvement in any conflict between, in all probability, either Russia and America or America and China. I do not see how honourable members opposite can justify that in any way at all. 
I said earlier, and I repeat it for the slow learners opposite, that this Government is prepared to honour those agreements, even those the contents of which they abhor. We have no intention whatsoever of departing from our duty as the representatives of Australia in this regard. When the agreement was written 12 or 13 years ago many of us held the view that no government was entitled to allow its writ to run for so much longer than the charter which comes with an election. We are all elected for 3 years. That is a reasonable charter. Beyond that we are making hostages for the future. Of course it is unreasonable to impose a strict limit of 3 years on any agreement which the Government may make. But I think the 25 years which was involved in this agreement was quite conscienceless on the part of the Opposition. I still believe it was quite conscienceless. No government should embark on such a proposition. So we carry the agreement forward. 
My friend the former honourable member for Bass negotiated with the best of goodwill and to the best of his ability with the American Government. The American Government made some concessions in relation to the position which it had originally taken. America has gone as far as it is prepared to go. Because of the terms of the agreement we are unable to alter it in any way without a breach of faith. That is the last thing we will do. Therefore tonight this Government is asserting that it will undertake to accept the agreements of the past, whether or not we agree with them. We undertake to continue them while they run. But we still reserve our right, at any opportunity, to negotiate with the other party to the agreement for a change towards a greater Australian involvement and sovereignty. So the issue here tonight is the further protection of Australia's sovereignty and its right to control its own destiny. 
I hope that never again will we have to be launched upon such a debate as this. I hope that when this agreement has run its course we will not any more embark upon such a commitment. The honourable member for Kooyong made light of or sneered at the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that we would neither extend it nor rewrite it. 
I have the words here. In 1 988 the world may well be a different one. We can rest confident that no matter how much the world may change, no matter how different it may be, the honourable members opposite will still continue to live in the past. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows; 
My answer to Question No. 1596 appeared in  Hansard  (pages 3684-3686) on 9 July 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question on Notice No. 2586 which appeared in Hansard (page 3545) on 5 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Legislation to introduce control over egg production in the A.C.T. has not yet been introduced. A draft Ordinance has been submitted to and discussed by the A.C.T. Legislative Assembly. Amendments recommended by the Legislative Assembly are now being examined. Under the legislation each producer who carried on business in the Territory during the period prescribed in the Ordinance will be licenced relative to his flock numbers during that period. 
The agreed size of the A.C.T. quota is 150 000. 
No. 
See (1) above. 
Changes in the overall quota for the A.C.T. will be made only after negotiations with the Australian Agricultural Council. However, following the States' clearly established precedent, the method of allocating quotas or quota changes for A.C.T. producers is a matter entirely within my responsibility as Minister for the Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question on Notice No. 2789 which appeared in Hansard (pages 3546-3547) on 5 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)  Mr Nolan's  gift to the Australian people was on the understanding that the collection should be housed in the 'Lanyon' homestead and the exhibition be exclusively of his works. 
-I feel that the remarks of the honourable member for Fairer  (Mr Fairbairn)  require some answer. The Returned Services League is, of course, a very important and most significant national organisation. It has a long history of public welfare activities and, I believe, of mobilising the nation, often in good causes. It claims the right- and I support its right- to criticise, to condemn and to advise governments, and during my period of membership of that organisation it has often done so. It has been quite vitriolic in its approach to many of the principles for which this Party, the Australian Labor Party, has stood, particularly in the past 10 years to 15 years. I for one would be a party in no way to silencing the members of the RSL and its leaders so to do. But those people who wish to dish it out have to respect the right of reply. 
A great problem in this country with very many people at the heads of organisations- and this applies as well to people in churches- is that they claim the right to be able to issue ultimatums, to describe people in all sorts of unflattering terms and to set out principles of action which other people do not like but they resent it when somebody answers back. I think that the Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr Whitlam,  is entitled to answer back to people who have hurled continuous criticisms and 'advice' at this Government and at the Labor Party. 
The right place to answer back is where the people who have said it can hear you. On this occasion, I am standing here not to support one way or another what was said by either side in this conflict but to say that in this community it is important that public discussion be not inhibited by any suggestion that somebody has a special right to be heard in silence. I think that it is most important that this be understood by the people of the RSL. 
The Returned Services League is an acrosstheboard organisation. I have no doubt that the great proportion of the members of the RSL in my electorate probably vote for the Party that I represent. It may well be that the members of the RSL in Farrer, for goodness knows whatever reasons, voted for the honourable member for Farrer. So we are speaking here of an organisation that represents everybody and every point of view in the community. For my part, I have often thought the leaders of the RSL have not been truly representative of the point of view of the great mass of the membership of the League in the positions that those leaders have taken on many of these matters. They have taken strong positions in relation to subjects on which the Labor Party takes an equally strong position on the other side of the fence. Therefore, I think that the leaders of the. RSL have to understand the position and to be tolerant in these matters. 
In the business of running a country and in the business of politics, if one uses strong words, one can expect the right of reply to be delivered with equal strength. I do think- and I say this to the membership and particularly to the leadership of the Returned Services League- that in recent years the RSL has been out of touch with the spirit of the community. By many of the public pronouncements of its leadership, the RSL has caused the younger generation in Australia to be inclined to pay scant respect to such events as Anzac Day and all that it stands for. I am just as much involved in all these matters as anybody in this House or in the community. I am involved in the community in such a way that often I am the recipient of criticism from younger people for my continued membership of the RSL and my participation in such events as Anzac Day because somehow some of the remarks of the people who lead the RSL have made the celebration of that day appear irrelevant. I am not criticising all of them. I am not criticising any in particular. 
I know the leaders of the RSL pretty well. I respect them. I have been on platforms and have debated some of these issues with them. But I do not think that anybody does any service to the Returned Services League, to Parliament, to politics or to public affairs in Australia by suggesting that the Australian Government and in particular the Prime Minister ought to be silent in the face of people who are offering pretty stringent and pungent criticism of our actions on many occasions. 
I say just this: It is darned near time that the RSL and many servicemen started to acknowledge that this Government has done more for the servicemen serving and for the servicemen retired than any previous government. My colleague the present Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  has taken up the rights and privileges of and our duties and obligations to the servicemen with a vigour which certainly transcends that of his predecessors on the other side of the fence. Therefore, I for one would appreciate it if some of the recipients of the benefits of this Government's actions, apart from criticising us when we are wrong, were also inclined to say thanks when they reckon we are right and particularly when they are beneficiaries, as are so many servicemen who are in service and in retirement in this country. 
Some honourable members opposite have attempted to have a field day at the expense of the Australian Capital Territory. My friend the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  administered the city of Canberra, its environs and some other parts of Australia for some time.  His  administration was not so disastrous as some of the other administrative efforts of his colleagues, but he did leave behind a number of things which we found it difficult to disentangle. I shall mention those directly. 
Perhaps it is appropriate that I should start with the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and his remarks. I understand that very shortly the Australian people will wait with breathless anticipation for a new policy on the Australian Capital Territory from the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party is pretty accustomed to producing old policies in new bottles It does it with everything else. I do not expect that there will be any fundamental change. 
The honourable member raised a few other matters to which I shall give some attention. There is the question of the Legislative Assembly. The Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council was founded, I think, in 1931. Over the years it continued as an advisory body, sometimes grumbling, sometimes near revolt, and usually frustrated. When the Australian Labor Party Government came to office it was working on the assumption that the citizens of Canberra should have a reasonable participation in the government of the Australian Capital Territory. Last year the Legislative Assembly was created with an election for 18 members. At the time we were waiting upon the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on self-government for the A.C.T. As far as I am concerned, the Legislative Assembly ought to embark upon its own legislative operations. I have pointed out to the Legislative Assembly that there is no area of law from which it is excluded. It is probably the only legislative body in Australia to which that applies. In the Australian Parliament there are strict constitutional restrictions upon things about which we can legislate. In the States there are equally strict limits. For the Legislative Assembly of this Territory there are no restrictions. 
However, it is true that it faces the fact that after having passed its legislation that legislation has to run the gauntlet of the 2 Houses of the Australian Parliament. I do not see that in the short term or in the long term that situation will change. We in this Parliament will continuously have to decide whether or not we will intervene between the decisions of the Legislative Assembly and perhaps the policies of a government in this Parliament which may have a different political colour or have different social or national objectives. I think that is a formula which has to be resolved. I do not claim to know the answer to that problem. So far, for instance, we have not resolved the question of the machinery by which this Parliament, if it wishes to do so, may amend legislation that has been passed by the Assembly. That is one area of endeavour which is open to the Assembly. At the present moment it is not adequately serviced. It needs its own drafting service and a few other facilities. 
I invite members from both sides of both Houses of this Parliament to repair to the question of the Government of the A.C.T. with a view to creating a co-operative operation between the Australian Parliament and the Legislative Assembly. On the other hand I am adopting the policy wherever it is possible or practicable of appointing the members of the Legislative Assembly to the chairmanship of local bodies that have been set up by statute or by any other method. I believe that this is in an area in which they can start to exercise their executive authority. 
I do not claim to know the strict answer to the way in which a territory such as this ought to be governed. It is true that we can produce reports which can specify almost another State. I would think that neither the citizens of Canberra themselves nor the members of this Parliament would want that to happen, but there must be some formula by which we can act in a co-operative way. I give honourable members an assurance that as far as it is practicable and within the limits of the wit and wisdom available to all of us we are proceeding along a road to self-government for this territory. One of the interesting questions, of course, that one can always ask about any form of government is: How much 'self is there in government anyhow? How much citizen participation can there be? I hope that this is a city and an area in which we can enlarge that. 
In the minutes that are left this evening I will deal with the question of rental accommodation in Canberra. My friends opposite have been slightly critical. They have suggested that a policy of disaster has been proceeding here. The situation is that the Australian Government itself owns and operates some 10 500 units of accommodation 8000 houses or thereabouts and over 2000 flats. That is nearly 20 per cent of the total residential accommodation in this city, a much higher proportion of rental accommodation than is available in any other city. Last year that was raised by a total of 1000 units over and above those that were sold during the year, so the Government has managed almost to double the best effort of the past in the creation of government rental accommodation in this city. 
I will deal with that in a moment. I take the points that honourable members have raised about the general standard of housing. It has been said that perhaps government accommodation is not up to scratch. Government houses have been called little boxes. There has been some progress in the design of housing. I for one would not regard us as having reached Utopia in general public housing anywhere in Australia. 
Now I come to the question of the private sector. For some mysterious reason it is a mythical being which is totally different from everything else. Apparently a house which has been erected by a government is a totally different object from one that is put up by a private operator. I take the point which I think was raised by my friend the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  What is the difference? Of course, there is none. For the private sector in this city ample land is available. It is the best serviced and probably the cheapest land available in this country. 
-Honourable members opposite say that rent control has scared them away. But of course, if they maintain that they should produce evidence that all round the rest of Australia people are madly building rental accommodation. My information is that they are not. 
Of course they are not. In the rest of Australia, whether there is rent control or not, nobody is building rental accommodation. 
I always like a bit of audience participation but usually of a little more useful nature than that contributed by the honourable member for Boothby. The facts are, of course, that the cost of money these days is of such an order that it is a fruitless way in which to invest your money. Nobody has come to me yet and said:  'Mr Minister,  I will build a thousand units if you will remove rent control'. If they do I will see whether it is a matter for consideration. But the fact, as far as I see it, is that while we operate our rent control system it is an inhibiting factor on private rents in this city. The people who are getting $40, $50 and $60 rent for their houses, often houses that have appreciated remarkably in value over the last 10 or 15 years, are receiving an adequate return. 
My friend from Gwydir said that people were being forced to sell their houses instead of renting them. I thought honourable members opposite believed in home ownership and that buying a house is a better principle than renting it. If someone can come forward with an adequate proposition about rental accommodation in this city we will be only too willing to listen. We have continuously examined this situation with a view to making it easier for people to purchase land and to build on it. We take any administrative action we can take to make it easier for people to build accommodation. 
I again issue the challenge: Let somebody come forward who is prepared to build a large amount of rental accommodation to overcome some of the deficiencies or pressures and we will give the proposal to lift rent control serious consideration. 
I will need a proposition which can be examined thoroughly and which will stand up to adequate study. I know that no one could come across with such a proposition because it is not happening anywhere else in Australia. The question of rates was raised. Honourable members opposite said that a 40 per cent increase in rates was a scandal. I think that was the word they used. It is fairly frequently used by them. The fact is that rates in this city are still relatively lower than they are in large areas of Melbourne and Sydney. I am not happy with the system; I think the rate system is archaic. I think that the financing of public services in municipalities solely from a rate charged upon land or residences is a relic of medieval times and we ought to change it. 
It is a challenge to all of us. Honourable members opposite representing the propertied class would recognise the difficulties imposed upon people, particularly people in the country areas, who pay extravagant rates on farms. But that does not happen in this Territory. My own view is that we have to find some way by which those people who live in the city and have the advantage of its services- there are some 80 000 to 90 000 people in the work force in this Territory; there are about 50 000 residential units paying rates and many of these have 2 employed people in them- contribute in some way. Whether it is by way of a subvention out of income tax or something of that order, I do not know. I simply put the proposition to the Parliament that it is a question we all have to face throughout Australia. Local government is running into serious financial problems because of the restrictive way in which we raise these funds. 
I floated it. After all, four of the 6 governments in Australia which control local government have found no solution to the problem either but we hope that in the next 3 or 4 months we will have a proposition to put to the citizens of Canberra through the Legislative Assembly and ultimately to this Parliament in an appropriate ordinance dealing with this matter. My view is that the people in this city who use its services, such as its library facilities, lighting of streets, its parks and gardens, ought to be contributing something towards the cost. The rates are to meet the general running costs of this city and these costs include such things as lighting and the maintenance of parks and gardens. Street lighting in this city costs about $630,000 a year while maintenance of the water supply costs $2. 7m, garbage and sanitation services cost $ 1 .9m and library services cost over $ 1 m. 
Many of the services in this city are of a higher standard because it is a national area. Many of the faculties have been better provided because the servicing in the first place was more adequate. I understand that it is cheaper mile for mile to maintain roads and streets in this city than it is in other parts of Australia because they are better put down in the first place. On the whole, in comparison with the rest of Australia, the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory get good value for their rates although I think the system is inequitable and inadequate. Honourable members probably agree with that observation. However, the Government has had passed on to it a system which has existed for many years. 
A number of other questions were raised. For instance, there was the matter of land and housing. I think the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said that the Government had reduced the supply of money by $3.2m. We did not do that at all. The allocation for Commissioner for Housing loans is $1.6m less this year. However, last year we had money over and had to return funds to the Treasury. We believe that the amount allocated this year will be adequate. Another question concerned the availability of land. There are some 4000-odd blocks of land available in this city now- the cheapest and best serviced land in the country. Over the last 18 months we have managed to get in front with the supply of land and there is no reasonable complaint about it now. The reduction in the amount of money allocated for the servicing of land flows simply from the fact that we have managed to get in front of demand. 
I do not think there were any other points raised which need answering at this point except perhaps the matter raised by the honourable member for Gwydir concerning the redevelopment of areas such as Kingston. My view is that those are the areas that ought to be preserved as they are, although some redevelopment is ocur ring. I and others recognise that it is possibly necessary to increase the density of the population in those areas. That is a challenge to the planners and builders to see that the redevelopment program will not take away the general charm of the inner city area. We do not want to turn the inner suburbs of Canberra into crowded areas such as we have in other capital cities. We recognise that there are some challenges in Canberra that perhaps we have not resolved. For instance, there are social disabilities imposed upon the people of Canberra because it is a new community. It is a totally different form of society which flows from the fact that it is new city. In the new suburbs there are young families with none of the ordinary family relationships that exist in other parts of Australia. Perhaps not enough thought has been given to the supply of social necessities in some of the new suburbs, but we are doing our best in every way to encourage this community development. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Fraser mentioned the co-operative shopping exercise in Belconnen. Honourable members opposite will be pleased to know that it is going well. I will do everything I can to encourage community participation and ownership of the resources of the city. For too long my predecessors allowed the land in this city to be bought, used and exploited by people who had money for investment purposes with a total disregard for the social factors. Too many people have been able to exploit the land in this city for their private purposes and capital gain. It is difficult to turn back the wheels. I believe that the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  did the city a great disservice with the changes he brought about but I give an undertaking that this Government will proceed along the lines that the community itself ought to have the greatest possible say in the government of this city, the greatest participation in its development and in the ownership and management of its commercial and general resources. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Financial assistance is available through the Department of the Capital Territory for the following programs: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (2) With reference to Question 2699 of the Member for La Trobe, the cost to the Government for financial assistance by the Department of the Capital Territory and the organisations who have received such grants is detailed below: 
The answer to the right honourable member's questions is as follows: 
1 ) Expenditure on advertising for the Department of the Capital Territory in 1 975-76 is estimated at $ 1 50,000. 
The types of advertising entailed in the expenditure of this amount are: 
advising Canberra residents of services available, road closures, recreational activities, new ordinances, lease sales, publications available, etc., 
b) advertising vacant positions; and 
promotional campaigns in respect of a Consumer Education Program and popularising the Canberra bus services. 
Expenditure on advertising in each of the last 5 years is: 
1970- 71 -$20,601 
1971- 72-$20,944 
1972- 73-$27,719 
1973- 74-$58,628 
1974- 75- $57,731 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Rents were increased in July 1974 for Government houses in the A.C.T. on the average by $2.90 per week. 
At present the frequency of distribution of rents is as follows 62 per cent of dwellings atract rents of $ 1 5 or less 35 per cent of dwellings attract rents of $ 1 5-$20 3 per cent of dwellings attract rents of over $20 
I should like to support my colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  in the discussion as to whether people who are to assist the Distribution Commissioners ought or ought not be members of the Public Service. 
-No, he does not. He handled the matter very competently but I thought I ought to put the matter in even more simple terms. The facts are that this is a perennial operation and not a continuing one. One needs to be able to recruit staff for an operation which may take 2 months, 3 months, 6 weeks, or 12 months perhaps, although I could not imagine it lasting that long. In my experience of administering a portfolio there is very little flexibility inside departments and inside the Public Service to gather together a number of people, to extract them from their daily devotions and to put them on to a different task. That would certainly apply to the Department which I administer at the moment and it would apply, I should think, throughout the system. Therefore, it is necessary that we create a more flexible arrangement. One of the weaknesses perhaps of the general Public Service system at the moment is our inability to recruit staff for short term positions and short term operations. I think the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  is being unduly suspicious. I cannot understand that. Perhaps he has been associating for too long with the National Country Party and knows what it gets up to in electorates; it is even worse than the Liberal Party. 
-The Distribution Commissioners need this kind of support in making arrangements about staffing. They need to have the flexibility that applies to Ministers and even to members themselves; that is, we get staff from where we can for the job that we require them to do. I hope that the Opposition will see the sense of that. I could take up the remarks made by the honourable member in the Country Party corner but I recognise that that would be out of order and irrelevant at this stage because when it comes to the sort of discussion that we are having about distributions on fair and equitable terms the Country Party really does not understand the issue. 
Question put- 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
By government decision there were substantial increases in general and water rates in the A.C.T. following the abolition of land rent from 1 January 1971. 
Since then there has been a continuing policy of fixing rate levels to keep pace with increasing costs and to reduce the historical gap between expenditures and revenue. 
Table 1 demonstrates the deficits each year since 1971. Table 2 shows actual rate increases for each year and Table 3 shows percentage increases for the period. 
For the information of honourable members I present an information paper on the progress in environmental conservation in the Australian Capital Territory and Jervis Bay. 
-The right honourable gentleman would never come back here if he faced the people on decent electoral boundaries. The facts are of course that the alternative Budget proposals for the A.C.T. by honourable members opposite would cause great reductions in all areas of government in this city. To reduce expenditure by the 12 per cent proposed would save about $9m. That cut in Canberra would mean not only a reduction of the ordinary services but also an attack upon the very fundamentals upon which the society is built. For instance, we would probably have to reduce loans for housing by about $3. 5m which would mean a reduction of 220 houses. It would mean 220 couples without homes. It would mean the employment of perhaps hundreds of people being prejudiced. We would have to reduce our orders for motor vehicles, of which this year we expected to order some 840. Of course this would go right back through the system and affect every motor car industry in the country. We would have to stop buying the buses we have ordered. We have ordered 86 buses involving another $3. 5m. Of course this affects the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation which is building them for us. Honourable members opposite want these industries to prosper. They propose to take every possible step to prevent them from doing so. In the general arrangements we will probably have to dismiss some 60 industrial workers and reduce standards right round the city. In respect of the other areas of health, education, development and so on I can get my colleagues to answer. The facts are that honourable members opposite are proposing a Budget allocation which is totally irresponsible. In fact it is a piece of continuing economic and social vandalism. 
We recognise the addition to the ranks of conservationists and activists of honourable members opposite. We are grateful to have on our side people who for forty or fifty years neglected everything in this area and wherever it was possible opposed anything we attempted to do to control miners and private enterprise exercises that did not contribute to the well-being of the community. Of course this was just one of the facts of life. This afternoon I propose to remind honourable members of some of the history of the Captains Flat area. Honourable members from both sides have mentioned some dates. I think the first letter on this matter was written in about 1911. It pointed out that pollution would result from the activities at Captains Flat. However it was in 1928 that the first letter of the modern series was written. For some time thereafter there was batting backwards and forwards between the 2 governments, the Australian Government and the opposing New South Wales Government. Even though at some times they belonged to the same political party they did not get too close together. Perhaps today we are paying a tribute to a new spirit abroad. It all depends on how quietly one is able to do things and how specifically one is able to undertake activities. 
My colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  myself as Minister for the Capital Territory and our colleague,  Dr Cass,  as the then Minister for Environment, conferred with 3 Ministers from New South Wales, the Minister for Mines and Energy,  Mr Fife,  the Minister for Public Works,  Mr Punch,  and the Minister for Health,  Mr Waddy.  We met in January of last year and started negotiations on this matter. We got, as it were, a communal attitude. I suppose this is the only way in which our federation will advance. People must sit down and discuss specific matters regardless of politics to try to resolve a situation. Possibly many lessons are to be learned from what has taken place throughout Australia in the last 3 years. I pay a tribute to my colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, for the way in which he has been able to negotiate in many instances with his political opposites and get them to come to the party. My only wish is that we could carry this further and get some members opposite to recognise the facts of life- to recognise that co-operation, not confrontation, is the way to make the nation work. 
This is an important Bill. The fact that it has taken so many years for action to be taken is sad. Nevertheless I hope it is recorded and noted everywhere that had it not been for a change of government in 1972 we still would not have this Bill before us. There is no possibility that the Opposition would have got around to introducing such legislation or taking action of the sort contemplated. This was one of those things that were always swept under the mat, put into the 'Too Hard' basket or the 'Forget' file. Today we are celebrating the introduction of this Bill. We must recognise the necessity to apply absolute and strict controls to the mining industries. Of course mines produce many things that make modern life possible. It is true that they also take their profits and leave. Throughout history the mining industry across all continents has always been, one may say, part of the most extravagant system of vandalism which private enterprise can dream up. It has always been able to dig holes in the ground, make whatever mess it might around the place, destroy the environment and leave. No matter what guarantees a mining company gave or left behind of course once it has gone into liquidation there is nothing you can do about it. 
We are attempting by this legislation to solve a problem involving between 2 million and 4 million tonnes of refuse left by miners who over the best part of a century took their profits and then left the area. The profits might even have left the country. All I would say is that here of course in the Australian Capital Territory we are taking every possible step to ensure that this does not happen again. I am quite conscious that my friends who sit opposite- despite what one may call audience participation on the other side of the House in the last few minutes in the form of interjections, despite what might appear to be the position to the people in the galleries that those opposite do not really care about this sort of thing- are in fact starting to take an interest in it too. I regret it has taken 50 years or more but in 
Australian politics there are no slower slow learners than the members of the current Opposition. So I hope that as our policies develop in the area of mineral control, as honourable members opposite start to negotiate more closely with their colleagues in the State parliaments, it will be realised that for the present and for the future it is an absolute unconditional national necessity to bring the mining interests of Australia under tight control. My own personal view is, of course, that the minerals in the ground belong to the people absolutely and that therefore the exploitation of them must be brought under total public control, not necessarily of course under total public ownership although I personally believe that the profits that flow from mining ought to flow back into the public coffers. 
Today we celebrate the initiatives of the Labor Government taken after so many years of neglect by the people who now sit opposite. I congratulate those people who have brought this proposal to fruition. They are basically the officials who made the arrangements and who brought about the agreement, particularly  Mr Davis  in my own Department. I only hope that my friends opposite, particularly the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who, not having been a member of this place for long, has not been totally subverted by his associations with the people on that side of the House, may yet receive salvation through the advice received from this side of the House. This is a very important national enterprise, as my colleague the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  has said. So I hope that the people opposite under our continuing encouragement will mend their ways and co-operate more continuously in wider areas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is the intention to have all VIP cars in the Department of the Capital Territory fleet painted white. 
Two black can have been retained in the fleet at the request of the Department of Foreign Affairs but they have now been withdrawn from service in preparation for disposal and they will be sold shortly. 
, (4) and (5) There are 27 Ford LTD and 22 Ford Fairlane 500 VIP cars in the Department of the Capital Territory fleet all located in Canberra. All are painted white. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) I do not consider that Professor Henderson's discussion of rent control is pertinent to the system which operates in the A.C.T. 
The purpose of rent control in the A.C.T. is not to stop rents from rising, neither is it the intention to determine rents below market values. 
The evidence of rent control operating in Britain and other countries is therefore not relevant. 
No convincing figures have been adduced to show that the overall effect of rent control in the A.C.T. has been a sharp reduction in the supply of accommodation for rent. This would be a likely consequence where landlords were not allowed an economic return on their investment, but this is not a policy which has been adopted in the A.C.T. There has been a decrease in the amount of accommodation available for renting in the A.C.T. but there has been a similar decrease in other Australian cities. 
The purpose of rent control in the A.C.T. is to standardise rents for comparable premises and to stabilise the rate of increase in rents. This ensures that landlords do not take advantage of prospective tenants as a result of the shortage of accommodation, and prevent poorer tenants from being out-bid in the market. 
The system in the A.C.T. is under continual review. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) One publication, entitled 'Let's Talk Nature Strips' is to be produced in foreign languages. It is an information brochure for distribution to members of the Canberra Community. 
English, German and Italian. 
The English version is expected to be delivered from the printers in approximately one month. It will be followed by the two foreign language versions shortly afterwards. 
I think the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is being unduly pessimistic and perhaps a little less than charitable. I respect the difficulty we have over the question of definition, whether it be the definition of Aboriginal people or anybody else. For instance, is the honourable member for Mackellar a Wentworth or not?  His  father was a Wentworth but his mother was not. So it goes right through the whole scene. We cannot define people into one group or another simply by inserting a definition in an Act of Parliament  ( Quorum formed) 
There is no doubt in my mind that everybody in the House who is concerned with this problem would agree that it is exceptionally difficult to define Aboriginal people in legislation. Generally speaking, our general decision has been to use the terms that the honourable member for Mackellar used. My inclination is to use the widest possible terminology and to give some direction to the administrative system that that is the way the definition is to be applied- to say that an Aboriginal is a member of the Aboriginal race of Australia if he is accepted by the Aboriginal people and considers himself to be one of the Aboriginal people. The last thing we would want would be race catalogues in which people would have to define their ancestry in such a way that they were able to say whether they were or were not Aboriginal people. I have referred to the general approach of this legislation. We recognise the difficulties, but our objective is to have the cover as wide as possible. 
The other point the honourable member for Mackellar made was that we were trying to roll this matter up into one omnibus piece of legislation which would cover all contingencies. As I read the Bill, that is not the case. The Bill is flexible enough to allow for all sorts of communities and all sorts of rules in all places in Australia. I remind the honourable member and the other honourable members who are present that there is a large number of community groups which sometimes act as total governmental operations. Within our community there are groups that come together, I suppose usually more for religious purposes than for anything else, and take on a total view. They have their own schools, their own community groups, their own property and so on. Internally they have a relationship which is social and, perhaps, religious or spiritual- whatever you like to call it- but not necessarily geographic. Therefore, it is quite possible for the people of Redfern - 
Motion ( by  Dr Forbes  ) put: 
That the honourable member for Wills be not further heard. 
-None of us should ignore the thoughts of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in this matter. He has has a long and honourable association with this subject and he keeps in touch with it, I suppose, more than most of us are able to do. I think the points he made are relevant and valid; but I suppose it is part of the different political philosophies that we may well approach the opportunity to enact this measure with more optimism than do our friends opposite. Taking firstly the question of the relationships between an Aboriginal society incorporated as a council under this legislation and a local council, I think it was the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  who mentioned earlier the town of Bourke and the fact that in that town there would be an Aboriginal council and a local council at the same time. I do not really see any great difficulties about it. We are accustomed to this kind of concurrent- that might be the word- organisational basis. A large number of community organisations operate in almost an autonomous way in our community, interposed with other organisations rather than integrated with them. 
This proposal is an experiment. It is the gathering together of the needs of the whole of the continent and bringing them into this legislation because this one Parliament has responsibility for all the continent. This process will start best and easiest, I expect, in the Northern Territory where the Aboriginal areas are more easily defined. So I do not see all that much difficulty about it. We are accustomed, in company legislation, co-operative legislation and various association legislation throughout Australia, to doing this. It is just novel that we now propose to do it for the Aboriginal community. I suppose that as one of the early Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs in this Government I can only regret that we did not have this machinery with which to start back in the beginning in 1972, so that by this time we could have worked it out, made any amendments that were necessary and be working in a different way. I turn to the question of the rules and the relationships. Like the honourable member for Mackellar, I cannot think of any way of doing it other than the simple voting pattern we use in making decisions ourselves. But my observation leads me to believe that the Aboriginal communities are likely to resolve this in thenown way. I have had contact with a number of Aboriginal communities in which, technically speaking, the spokesmen were one group of men but the actual power lay with others, as it does in so many communities. They managed to resolve the difficulties between their internal organisation and the front they had to put on in relationships with our community in that way. 
When the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee was established this general question of how one defines areas and selects people was raised. If we had had a long practice at it, if we had known much more about communities than we do and so on, we may well have been able to define a way of doing it which allowed for the tribal organisation, the social organisation, etc., of the communities. But we are not all that skilful at it yet. I regard this as an historic piece of legislation. It is an attempt- I expect that it will be a successful one after it has been administered for some time- to produce a new form of social organisation for the Aboriginal community of Australia. It may well be that it will produce for the rest of the Australian community some breakthrough instead of the normal reliance on such things as the company legislation which is available to the rest of us to do things. 
Our community has not been all that adventurous in attempting to create new forms of organisation and give them legal sanction. This is a step in that direction. It is a product of the fact that in 1967 we managed to change the Constitution to give this Parliament the authority to do so. On this side of the chamber we are grateful for the participation of our colleagues opposite. As was pointed out earlier, they perhaps have been slow learners- not all of them. Some of them started in the field perhaps earlier than the rest of us here did. If the Parliament applies itself to this task with the wit and wisdom of which it is capable, I am sure that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs will be able to keep a watchful eye on the whole system as it goes. That was one of the functions the Committee was given when it was created. It has a power, I think, to act on its own motion and to examine matters and report without having to direct references made to it. So I do not know that the pessimism from my colleagues opposite is necessary. 
-I am corrected. From the other side of the chamber, it is wisdom. From this side of the chamber we look upon it as pessimism. Perhaps that is a pretty good definition of the philopsophical and political differences between us. The Opposition mistakes pessimism for wisdom and so we do not make as much progress as we ought to, unless the Opposition is under our guidance. 
All I would like to say to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  at this stage is that I think he is more obsessed with the structures with which one tries to resolve problems than the situation arising between people around which the problems occur. Although I have not been associated with this general question ever since I entered this Parliament, I have been looking at it pretty closely for most of the time I have been a member. I have been associated with the structures which this Parliament has established from time to time to examine the matter. I do not know that I know exactly what sort of structures one can establish to resolve questions such as this that in the end will not rely basically upon the kinds of minds that are brought to it. Therefore it is really a human question which will be resolved by human beings sitting in association with one another and not too closely structured. My own observations on human affairs would be that the more rules one has in unknown situations such as this, the less likely one is to arrive at any conclusion. 
I recognise that the honourable member for Wentworth is applying to this matter a highly skilled professional mind and one that has given a great deal of attention to this particular question. But I give him assurance from this side of the chamber that really the objective is to resolve the question. The machinery by which we do it, the people who will be employed upon it, and the final answers, will be resolved by the goodwill of this Parliament and the Ministers who handle the matter from time to time. But my own experience leads me to believe that the less formality we write into the legislation, the less formal we attempt to make the structures and the less rigid we try to make the rules, the more chance we will have of resolving the questions that the honourable member has related here this afternoon. I accept his point of view about the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. But, after all, that Committee has the power to examine matters on its own motion. I think it is made up of a body of people who are applying themselves to these questions with the greatest possible aptitude and attention. I think we can hope that during the course of the operations of this legislation they will keep the matter under scrutiny and bring their advice to this Parliament. 
There is only one thing to do in the question of land rights and that is get on with it. I do not think that we would be advantaged in any way by referring this matter to another committee for further examination. It has been a long slow haul. I expect that the first battles were joined around the Yirrkala people and their rights to their land back in 1963. That is 12 years ago. We have been in office now for 3 years and it has taken a long while to even get this legislation on the stocks. I think that the Parliament will be advantaged and the people of Yirrkala and elsewhere will be advantaged if we pass this legislation and allow, as one might say, nature to take its course in the deliberations between human beings on this matter. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  made points about ownership. We of course would agree that ownership just cannot be denned all that easily. Clause 24 uses the words 'traditional Aboriginal owners of Aboriginal land'. I cannot think of a way to define it other than by using the words 'traditional Aboriginal owners' in the sense in which they would be applied by the Aboriginal people themselves. I make the point again- it is one that has been driven home to me in the 20 years I have been a member of this Parliamentthat the more we try to define things absolutely and precisely in these matters the more we restrict and restrain. I do not think that the honourable member's strictures in that regard are relevant to this point. 
I would, however, take issue with him when he speaks of people whose ancestry is not totally Aboriginal. I do not quite like the words that have been used- 'half-blood' and such like. I think the English language ought to be able to produce better words, but I will not blame anybody for using the words that have been used. The facts are, of course, that many of those people have deep roots in the societies in the north. They belong to them in many respects. They have sprung from them in many ways and they happen to be the most articulate people in their communities. I see no reason to reject their participation in them, though one would expect that the system will prevent them becoming in a strict sense the proprietors or the manipulators as the honourable member has suggested. 
On the other hand the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)-  the conflicting names of honourable members and electorates is terribly confusing- spoke about the question of land rights. Exactly how would he define it other than by legislation such as this? It is not often in this place that we have placed in legislation the spirit with which we wish it to be carried out or what it means. We expect the legislation to express it. The only piece of legislation that I can think of that does this at the present time is the Commonwealth Bank Act which spells out the duty of the Board as follows: 
It is the duty of the Board, within the limits of its powers, to ensure that the policy of the Corporation, and the banking policy of the Trading Bank, of the Savings Bank and the Development Bank, are directed to the greatest advantage of the people of Australia and have due regard to the stability and balanced development of the Australian economy. 
I expect that somebody with a flair for English could express in similar terms what land rights are about, and that could be written into the preamble of the Bill. The guarantee that this Government means business is in the legislation itself. The assurance that the Committee supports it- although my colleagues opposite want to defer it- means that it will be passed in this place. The legislation is flexible enough to allow for all the difficulties that have been referred to to be overcome. I do not believe there is any advantage in deferring the legislation at all. It perhaps would be unkind of me to say to the people opposite that they seem to be better at deferring than getting on with the job. Legislation is the machine by which we get on with the job. I see no difficulties in the future in reconsidering matters, in giving new strength to certain sections of the proposed Act if it is necessary or creating new structures, but to refer it to a committee at this stage would, I think, be disadvantageous and we would be abdicating our responsibilities. 
I wish to refer to a point made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  about the membership of the council. I take it that what he is saying is that only the people living in the area and who belong to the area in the strictest possible sense ought to be members of the council. I think that would impose impossibilities upon the administration of this proposal and on the participation of people who may well not be living in the area now but belong to it. My own view, again, is that the flexibility that clause 29 gives is desirable and necessary. 
The protective devices in the Australian community after all often lie with the Minister administering a law from time to time from here or from elsewhere, whichever Parliament happens to be administering these things. I think the honourable member is being unduly pessimistic about the role that non-locals may be able to play. I agree with the honourable member in that 
I think in many areas the smaller the area that a council covers the better. But that is something to be decided. 
The Schedule of the Bill sets out various definitions of land areas and so on. I just make the point in answer to the honourable member for Mackellar so that it is on the record that I think that the way in which clause 29 is set out is the best possible way to approach this matter at this stage. There is no doubt that as time goes on the Act will be amended. It may be expanded; it may be contracted; it may be improved. At least I hope it will never be made more restrictive in respect of the rights of Aboriginal people. Australia is very difficult to govern because of many of the definitions that were written into our laws in a too restrictive way. The last thing we want to do in dealing with a complex situation such as this is to attempt to be too restrictive and too formal with definitions we put into legislation. 
-I listened with astonishment to the remarks of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  Honourable members should remember his action on 12 November when he speaks of Parliament and what it stands for. On 11 November in this House the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was removed from office by the Governor-General and replaced by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The House immediately passed a resolution of no confidence in the honourable member for Wannon and the next day, to their eternal parliamentary shame and the shame of the people who supported and nominated them, members of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party went out to the Governor-General's residence and were sworn in as ministers- an act of treachery and treason against the whole parliamentary system. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
-The House should be well aware by a simple glance at the  Parliamentary Handbook  of the qualifications that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  would bring to the task. He is a medical practitioner with an M.B., B.S. and is one of the few people in this Parliament who holds the degree of Master of Science. He served in the Victorian Parliament for eight or nine years and he has served with distinction in this Parliament.  His  qualifications, academic, political and parliamentary, are not unique in a House which has a great deal of quality but they are of a very high order. All of us have seen him in command in the chair. He provided adequate support to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  as his  Deputy.  He handled all difficult occasions with aplomb, with rapport and, I believe, with fairness. 
The House should be grateful for the service he has given on several very important committees. He was  chairman  of the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. The work he has done there, I hope, will produce a more satisfactory parliamentary arrangement for all of us. Members casting their vote ought to remember that kind of service to the parliamentary system. He was  chairman  of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation and brought the same qualities to that committee. In examining the qualifications of the 2 candidates for this position I think we should give consideration not only to their personal qualities but also to the general qualities of parliamentary work which they have produced over their years of effort in the parliamentary system. I claim, with no disrespect to my friend the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  that in work on the constructive side of the parliamentary system the honourable member for Scullin is pre-eminent. Therefore, if we want to do justice to the parliamentary system we should vote for the honourable member for Scullin. 
Let us turn for a moment to my honourable friend from Lyne. Apparently the 3 years he has been in recess on the Opposition benches have produced a changed person. I do not recognise any person of that name and kind sitting in the chair, deliberating with wisdom, dignity and fairness. I speak to the Liberals now: It is very difficult for a member of the National Country Party to be non-political about anything, even passing the salt. The honourable member for Lyne exercised a notable bias in the chair. It is true that he has been a member of Parliament for a long while. He has been a member for 23 years, but he has not had 23 years experience, he has had one year's experience 23 times because he is a remarkably slow learner of the rights and duties of the people for whom he deliberates, particularly members of the Opposition. 
I recognise the difficulties which you,  Mr Speaker,  will have overcoming some of the attitudes which you might have had in the past, but you will not be assisted in any way by having the honourable member for Lyne as  Deputy Speaker.  Therefore, this afternoon I hope we will cast our vote objectively and vote for my friend, the honourable member for Scullin. I put this point- this is something that honourable members opposite might consider more deeply when we are facing up to the next Federal election- it may well be that this Parliament should start to consider alternation. Perhaps the  Speaker  could be from the government party, and the  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  could be from the Opposition party, as is the case with many of our Committees, standing committees and so on. I put that forward as a suggestion for the future because, much as honourable members opposite might ponder the scarcity of people on thus side of the House, in politics there is an awful lot of future but not too much of it will belong to them. 
I am at one with the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  inasmuch as I did not want to stand up - 
I did not want to stand up and take on the honourable member while he was making his maiden speech. But we have heard such an eloquent enunciation of Stone Age politics that I do not think we can let it pass. What else can we expect? The honourable member is a product, or perhaps a by-product, of the Tasmanian Legislative Council; no greater an institution of troglodytism has this country ever seen. 
The honourable member stands here during his maiden speech and, appropriately enough and consistent with most of his political philosophies he quoted Cockburn and Braddon and the people at the end of the last century. But what did he have to say about the events of this week? He quoted Cockburn, I think, who then had something to say about absolute monarchy, and that if you did not do such and such you were threatened with absolute monarchy. What would Cockburn, Deakin, Parkes, Kingston, Braddon and the rest of them have thought of the interpretation of the Constitution that was foisted on us on 1 1 November? What would they have said? What has the honourable member thought about it? 
Let us consider for a moment what it means. The honourable member referred this week in various derogatory ways to the actions we took. I am one of those who went over to the rose gardens, not expecting much- and not being disappointed. I went to the gardens because they are a part of this Parliament and neither the Governor-General, the Crown nor anyone else will prevent me from using the Parliament in the way in which it was made to be used and as a part of the institution to which I belong. I wrote to the Governor-General and told him exactly why I was going to ignore his summons when Black Rod came to the door of the House of Representatives last Tuesday. I shall not take the time now to read the letter to the House. Honourable members have all received copies. But I shall explain exactly what it is all about. The Constitution is quite precise. Section 62 of the Constitution states- and I guess this is exactly what Cockburn, Parkes, Deakin and Braddon and the rest of them meant by it back at the end of the last century: 
There shall be a Federal Executive Council to advise the Governor-General in the government of the Commonwealth. 
The Governor-General of this country, in any reasonable, democratic, commensense historical interpretation of the Constitution, has no right to make decisions on his own. He is subject to the decisions and the advice of his Ministers, the members of the Federal Executive Council. I was a member of the Federal Executive Council. I was one of the Governor-General's advisers for the 3 years of the Labor Government. On this occasion he had ample opportunities to consult and to be advised by the members of the Executive Council. He did not do so.  His  duty was clear and precise. There is no way in which he could validly take the advice of anyone else. So on 1 1 November when he made his decision he ignored his clear and bounden duty- a duty imposed upon him by the Constitution, and the only duty and the only option that anybody can accept that he had- to accept the advice of and consult the members of the Executive Council. Why did he not do so? He is the  President  of the body. He had only to call us together and he could have discussed the various options. I have not time tonight to discuss them here, but we will have plenty of time in the next 12 months or 3 years to do so. 
Let us consider what is meant by his interpretation, confirmed by the troglodyte from Denison, of the Constitution. If the GovernorGeneral has the power- according to the interpretation brought forward here tonight and which it is said has been confirmed by the people of Australia- to dismiss his Ministers at will we have in this country a head of state answerable to no one, not to  Her  Majesty the Queen, because she wrote to  Mr Speaker  Scholes and said that it was not appropriate for her to intervene; not answerable to the Ministers, because he can dismiss them at will, and he did; and not answerable to this Parliament because he can dissolve the Parliament, and he did. If one reads the sections of the Constitution where the GovernorGeneral is referred to- there are some ten or fifteen sections, I think- one will find that he has an absolute unchallengeable authority to govern without any advice and answerable to no-one. This Parliament cannot appropriate any money except upon receipt of a message from the Governor-General. If that section is interpreted as other sections were interpreted on 11 November what does it mean? What happens if this Government goes along to the GovernorGeneral and says that it wants a message to appropriate $60m for the superphosphate bounty? If the Governor-General says: 'I do not approve of it', there is nothing the Government can do about it. When we pass legislation in this House and take it to him it is not law until he gives his assent. If he says: 'I will not agree', there is nothing we can do about it. I have heard of no more dangerous interpretation or a promulgation of no more terrible political philosophy in my time in this Parliament than that which flows from the interpretation that was imposed upon us on 1 1 November. Everybody in Australia has to be aware of that. 
I make no reference at all to the personal qualities of the present holder of the office of Governor-General. I have found him always a decent and courteous man. I want to say that as a member of a Government that dealt with him during its term of office he was always dealt with courteously and with the greatest possible discretion. The Cabinet never made any announcement of a decision to which he had to put his signature until he had done so. We were very precise about that. This is not a question of a contest between the present incumbent of the office of Governor-General and the former Labor Government; it is a question whether this Parliament will govern Australia or whether some nonanswerable appointed person will. That is what the issue was last Tuesday. Everyone of us, conditioned as we are here by the system and brought up to do the done thing, made our decision conscious of the fact that we would be traduced and denigrated from one end of Australia to the other, and that the leader writers of the newspapers, conscious of their moral and intellectual superiority to everybody else in this continent, would denounce us, but in fact our duty flowed from our membership of this Parliament. 
I said in my letter to the Governor-General: 
You represent, at the Opening of Parliament, an interpretation of the Constitution which threatens Australian democracy. 
As a member of the House of Representatives, I am part of a long and continuing tradition of  resistence  to arbitrary and capricious authority. 
As  Her  Majesty has seen fit to say in her letter to  Mr Speaker  Scholes, that she has no responsibility for your actions, and as you have asserted your power to remove and appoint Ministers at will, there has been created in Australia a position where an appointed person governs, answerable to no-one, not to the Ministers whom he appoints and removes at will, not to the Parliament which he dissolves at will, nor to the Queen who asserts 'that it would not be proper for her to intervene ', to comply with your summons to attend in the Senate on Tuesday, ratifies your actions and places Australian democracy in further peril by inviting future incumbents of your Office to invoke the precedent you have established. 
I represent a constituency which has always supported its Members in their stands against arbitrary authority, for these reasons therefore I feel it will be my duty to ignore your summons. 
I did that conscious of a duty to the institution of which I am a member, to the people I represent and to the continuing history of the Australian Parliament. I did it also conscious of the fact that it would look like discourtesy and would be played up as such. But our duties often run counter to our personal conscious feelings and I have no doubt that we will continue with something of that order. 
That brings me to some of the other issues that were raised. I do not have time to debate them. Whether Tasmania was treated so badly is a matter for further debate. Whether the centralised policies, so called, of the Labor Government were as dangerous to democracy and the system as is said by honourable members opposite will be debated at great length. I dispute it and it is nonsense. I want to say a word or two about the general tenor of the Government's policies. Saturday, 13 December, was the day of the return of the Philistines. We had inflicted upon Australia a government of economic and social vandals. Its economic and social policies are an anachronism. The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  may well laugh.  His  constituents are the principal, the first and abiding victims of the nonsense that is going on. 
One of the great achievements of the people opposite when they were in Opposition was continually to assert that the Australian economy was being ruined by our economic and social policies. I predict that the course of their future behaviour will be to say, as a cover up of their own incompetence, that they took over an inadequate, a ruined economy. That is nonsense. They inherited from us, or took over from us or usurped the authority to run one of the world 's most resilient and powerful economies. Australia's production capacity is one of the world's largest. I think it is about twelfth or fourteenth in comparison with some and ninth or tenth in comparison with others. The people's savings in the Australian banks are higher than ever before, both absolutely and in ratio to population. Our natural resources are almost unique, and they have been outlined here today. Our overseas reserves continuously remain stable no matter what the rest of the world does. Our export and import rate maintains a steady solid base for Australian industrial expansion. For instance, in January 1976 we imported $700m worth of goods but exported $763m worth. We have one of the world's greatest potentials for producing a country of economic self-reliance. 
We on this side of the House, like everybody else, regret that unemployment is at the level that it is but given the current economic philosophies and the system that we inherited there was little that we could do about it. I believe that the people opposite are setting out upon a path which will make it worse. When considered against the rest of the world some of the things that have been said about the economy and the Government's policies are nonsense. The assumption that the Labor Government was doing things that were totally reprehensiblewas that the word- and was out of context with the rest of the decent organised governments is rubbish. In today's world unemployment is endemic. Germany, Britain and France have about the same rate of unemployment as Australia has. Unemployment in the United 
States of America runs at 5 per cent; in Canada at 7.2 per cent; and Ireland at 12.4 per cent. 
Then, of course, there are the theoretical aberrations which honourable members opposite call economic policy, such as the influence and nature of the deficit. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  pointed out, of course, that the deficit is not of the kind about which members of the Government talk. Honourable members opposite have referred to our extravagance as a government and to the expansion of Government expenditure when we were in office. If honourable members consider the rate of government expenditure in relation to gross domestic products they will find that in our Government 's last Budget it was 32.2 per cent; in the United Kingdom it was 55 per cent; in France it was 41.9 per cent; in the U.S. A. it was 33 per cent; and in Germany it was 3 1 .7 per cent. I ask honourable members to consider the growth rate. Australia 's growth rate last year was 1.75 per cent; in the U.S.A. it was -0.3 per cent; in Japan it was 1.25 per cent; in the U.K. it was -2.25 per cent; and in Germany it was -3.75 per cent. Relative to the rest of the world we were performing very well. 
We have now embarked upon a course which cannot produce anything but unsatisfactory results. We are going to divert our effort and our resources from public expenditure to private expenditure. How? The latest return from the Department of Manufacturing Industry shows that Australian industry is running at about 80 per cent capacity. There is very little one cannot buy in the shops. Most people such as ourselves during the last two or three years have been able to buy the things they needed out of the financial resources at their disposal. 
I represent one of the great industrial areas of Australia and I represent the sort of people who feel the cold winds of economic disaster first, and it is my firm belief that in fact we are turning from the consumer society. There is no way we can make the people who have a total of $ 15,000m in the savings banks rush out to use that money for consumer spending. I have no doubt that there are areas in which the average person would spend a little more money- if given a little more money, a little more time or if more facilities were at their disposal. But the fact is that Government expenditure is the only way to soak up all those surplus resources about which many honourable members have spoken this afternoon. There is no way in which private consumer spending in a selective buying society will take up all the productive capacity of Australian factories. If a factory is running at 80 per cent capacity, what will induce the owner to invest in new equipment? New equipment will be purchased only if people buy more goods. I cannot see that people will buy more goods. I put it to the House conscientiously, honestly and earnestly that this will not happen. 
I put it both honestly and earnestly. In fact, honourable members opposite are looking for the pot of gold at the foot of the rainbow if they think that private enterprise will take up the 20 per cent of unused industrial capacity and the 4 per cent or 5 per cent of unused human resources. It will be the public sector that will absorb this unused capacity. 
As I said earlier, I represent an area of great industrial capacity. I represent the areas of Brunswick and Coburg in Melbourne- a total of 11 square miles. It is not very large but I represent 120 000 people. The roads and streets all need doing up. The schools need rebuilding. General social facilities and amenities in the area are meagre. There are many areas of social need. This situation occurs in many areas in Australia. There is a contradiction between the policies of the Government and the social and economic needs of Australia. I implore the Government to take another look at it policies and change its course. There is no future in its present course except the destruction of some of the aspirations of people who need the things that we were setting out to give them. Part of the jargon now is 'the extravagances of the Labor Government'. Occasionally some of them are cited although I cannot pinpoint any as I stand here this evening. Occasionally people such as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  talk about  Blue Poles.  He is the sort of man who probably would sell the Parthenon. As I said, it is the day of the return of the Philistines. 
An enormous number of projects has been launched across every area of social policy. Honourable members opposite cannot say that they ought not to have been launched or point to where money was wasted. Public enterprise is an enormous undertaking. Its expenditure cannot be policed down to the last cent. I believe this Government has embarked upon a course which will bring Australia to a halt. The Government will not achieve anything by its appeal to private enterprise. It will destroy the reasonable aspirations of people in the social area and in the general public area. The Governor-General's Speech outlining government policy is an anachronism. The honourable member for Denison is well placed sitting among you, back in the 1 890s, and as a refugee from the Tasmanian Legislative Council. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In any discussions at the United Nations on the situation in East Timor, will he give an assurance that Australia will press and urge for the full and absolute selfdetermination of the people of East Timor and demand the withdrawal of all Indonesian forces from East Timor? 
I welcome the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Ml)  to this place. I suppose one could quote the words of the Welsh song: 'Be they knight or hind or bowman they shall bite the ground'. The honourable member might as well make the most of it although I did sense in his speech an unusual sensitivity to some of the social questions of the day which I hope will not be overwhelmed by the spate of Liberals around him who are likely to surrender very rapidly to the cynicism of which the honourable member spoke. There were several things the honourable member mentioned which I might take up at this point. 
For instance, he gave a shout of encouragement to the dissolution of the former Department of the Media. In a country in which the media is under greater concentration of monopoly control than almost any other it is essential that a countervailing force be created and of that the Department of the Media was the beginning. I believe it is a serious error on the part of democratic governments to allow the forces of public information to remain under monopoly control in the highly centralised situation such as we find in Australia at the present moment. I believe that affects us all. It is not just the members on this side of the House who are the current victims of this propaganda and the continuing victims of this propaganda and misrepresentation. We have heard from the other side of the House on many occasions similar complaints and there is no doubt that some of our predecessors in office were pursued to their destruction with relentless malevolence by the forces which control the media. 
There were several other matters that the honourable member raised. He complained about the situation of housing in Queensland. It was unfortunate that the Labor Government had to deal with such an obstructionist expert as the honourable the Premier of Queensland and his Government. 
It does not really matter. It reminds me a bit of a Liberal Party meeting. They are not really interested in what is going on. They are here for the ride. The honourable member for Bowman complained about housing in Queensland and welfare housing. In the last year of the McMahon Government $ 167m was made available throughout Australia for welfare housing. In the Budget that the Labor Government presented in August and which honourable members opposite- or at least their minions in the Senate- knocked back, $365m was to be made available. The environment which was created by the Labor Government was a totally different one. It would not be a bad idea if honourable members opposite and the rest of the citizens of Australia had a look at the preDecember 1972 situation. I will not ask the people to turn the clock back. They have a Government now which is doing that now. 
Honourable members opposite have made the most of the opportunity in this debate to preach in cliches day after day. The honourable member for Bowman cited  Sir Winston  Churchill who was, appropriately enough, a good leader in wartime, when the issues were clearly defined, but a totally hopeless leader in time of peace when the real social and political issues have to be faced. There is no doubt that we are living in a time of great social and economic change. This is a different world. This world was different in 1975 even from 1965, and certainly from 1955 when I was elected to this House. Change is occurring across the board, in the economic, political and social situations. It is interesting to note the total change in attitudes towards authority. All the systems of authority which we have inherited and which conditioned people of my generation are either breaking down or changing. Probably 'changing' is the better word. 'Breaking down' would imply a discipline now which was not present in times past. The change appears in attitudes towards the church, the family, the army, the factory - 
Yes. The Australian Labor Party has always been a notably democratic, outgoing, free-wheeling organisation which encourages discussion. I am glad of the honourable member's assistance. I always like a bit of audience participation, particularly from honourable members opposite who, understandably, sleep through the speeches of members of their own Party. The facts are that inflicted upon Australia is a Government whose internal procedures are a total anachronism. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has started to operate this country as his private property. It is like an extension of Nareen. As a matter of fact, I understand that the name of Nareen is to be changed to Cold Comfort Farm because it will bring the Australian nation cold comfort. The pyramidal, centralised, authoritarian structure of the present Cabinet is an anachronism in modern society. I do not blame the Prime Minister. He does not trust members of the Ministry to make Press releases and public speeches until he has vetted them. I would not do so either, although my natural inclination as a socialist would be to let them have a go. The Cabinet is an infliction upon the Australian body politic which I consider to be an anachronism and a danger to this parliamentary system. 
An honourable member opposite interjected and referred to the situation in the Labor Party. The Labor Party, like many other institutions, is often slower to change itself than it is to advocate change in others. But at least its democratic structure, with the Caucus system and the tentacles which reach into the rest of the community, allows people to participate in it. I say honestly and earnestly that there is a very unequal distribution of resources available to members of this Parliament. I was a Minister for nearly 3 years and I recognise the great advantages conferred upon a Minister in simply having adequate resources at his disposal to do things and to have things done for him. In my view, the differentiation is too great. I was a firm advocate before when my Party was in Opposition and I am a firm advocate now that it is in Opposition again of a more egalitarian approach to this situation. 
In this debate questions are continually being raised by honourable members opposite and they must be answered. I was proposing to do that. I will deal with the matters which have been raised, such as the question of the supremacy of Parliament itself. I think that that is a great issue. It flows on from the remarks I was making about the position of Ministers in this Parliament. Part of the burden of the amendment is associated with the financial preeminence of the House of Representatives, the recent constitutional crisis and the events which led up to it. I believe that it is time that this Parliament adopted a Supremacy Act. It is time that it did something to prevent a recurrence of the events of 1 1 November. The point I was making was that Ministers in this Parliament have extraordinary resources at their disposal- departmental resources- to enable them to carry out their duties. On 1 1 November we were told that a number of people were to be nominated as Ministers who did not have the confidence of this Parliament. In fact a vote of want of confidence in the Leader of the Party was carried. I believe that the fate of parliamentary government rests with the supremacy of the lower House in our system here and particularly in the ability of a majority in that lower House to decide who shall be the Government. Therefore we should have legislation which defines the responsibility of Ministers to the Parliament. 
I also believe- this may be a little revolutionarythat the dissolution of the Parliament ought to be in the hands of the Parliament itself. The constitutional procedures which led to the events of 11 November make this Parliament redundant. They have placed us in the situation where a single person, no matter of what eminence and no matter by whom appointed, acknowledging no other authority but himself or herself, is able to dissolve this Parliament at will. Let us look at the events that occurred. There existed a Ministry and an Executive Council. On my interpretation, they were the proper advisers of the Governor-General. He has no other advisers. 
Yes, I have read it quite often. It is quite clear. Like everything else, constitutions have to be read in the context of history and development. The Governor-General had a set of advisers. If the honourable member is looking up the relevant sections, I think they are sections 62 and 64. The Constitution says that there shall be a Federal Executive Council to advise the Governor-General in the government of the Commonwealth. That is the overriding section of that document. If honourable members read the predecessors of our Constitution in British history- for instance, the Bill of Rightsand if they look at the assertion of supremacy of the Parliament in various ways I think that they will agree with me. I am sure that even the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  will agree. The situation is that, in this parliamentary system, the Parliament of Australia is the executive Government of Australia. The executive authority of that Parliament rests with the majority in the House of Representatives. The executive authority can be denned only by the majority in the House of Representatives. The people who exercise that authority can be responsible and answerable only to the majority in the House of Representatives. The great error of 1 1 November was that that fact was overlooked. Therefore, the Opposition's amendment embraces that objective. 
We believe that the parliamentary system cannot survive unless we reverse the trends that developed on 11 November. The honourable member for Bendigo was interjecting. He represents an area that ordinarily has been associated with some of the democratic trends in Australian political history. I am quite confident that the Governor-General's interpretation of his executive authority extended through the Constitution, as revealed in the power he used on 1 1 November, would offend, affront and horrify the citizens the honourable member represents. As one reads it one will find in the Constitution somewhere- I cannot tell honourable members offhand - 
I am not worried about clauses 1 or 2. The Constitution also makes mention somewhere of the Queen appointing the Governor-General. However, on this occasion she has chosen to say that it is not appropriate for her to give him any directions in any way. She has opted out. He is the only authority answerable to nobody but himself, if one takes the interpretation I have given. As was pointed out by one of my colleagues this afternoon, he may refuse or give assent to Bills. We can appropriate money in this Parliament only on a message from the Governor-General. He is the commander-in-chief. He can dissolve the Parliament. He can prorogue the Parliament. I have not time in the few minutes at my disposal to expand on all his powers but I believe that they are a threat to Australian parliamentary democracy. It is not so much that the present incumbent of that office made what I think is a serious error in his interpretation of his powers on 1 1 November but that we stand here as part of a continuing system of government and people in the future will take for their guidance the precedents established here from time to time. I think it is vital, it is important and it is fundamental that this Parliament assert its proper authority and that the House of Representatives assert its proper authority. 
I am not necessarily a believer in a bicameral system. I think that in a modern, democratic and mature society such as ours is or ought to be one House of Parliament with proper protective devices should be adquate. However, for a long while my view has been that in respect of our relationships with the other place we should have amended the Constitution so that the other House can defer matters only for a period of time, such as is the case in Britain, I understand, or more appropriately in view of the relationships inside the constitutional processes so that there could be joint sittings as the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  mentioned this afternoon. My view is that when the Houses of Parliament are in dispute after an appropriate process, perhaps involving the presentation of a Bill in this House two or three times or a period of one or two months between presentations, there should be a joint sitting to resolve the question. If that had occurred between 1972 and 1974 the Labor Government in the ordinary course of events would have had the support of the majority of the members of this Parliament. Of the 180-odd members of the Parliament the Labor Government had two or three more than half. Subsequently, with the retirement of  Senator Murphy,  the death of  Senator Milliner  and the loss of the seat of Bass we would not have had the numbers. It may well be that in a democratic society with a popularly elected Parliament, with both Houses elected on adult suffrage, the issues which were before the Parliament may not have had the right of carriage. It may be that we could use a referendum or some procedure such as that to achieve this. 
Let us consider for a moment the point of dispute we had with our friends opposite, that is, electoral redistribution. That matter was held up in the other place. If the redistributions had been put to a joint sitting they would have been carried. Those are matters of great moment and we all have to face them. I do not subscribe to the view that the Australian Constitution cannot be changed by referendum. I recognise that of the 36 questions or so that have been put only five or six have been carried affirmatively. I recognise that Tasmania has probably the worst record. Too often a referendum has been lost in Tasmania by only a handful of votes. Interestingly enough Western Australia on the first 26 questions submitted by way of referendum voted 'yes' in respect of twenty of them. My electorate has voted 'yes' to all the referenda except those on conscription in the First World War, the Communist Party Dissolution Bill, the control of wages when we put that question in conjunction with the control of prices and two or three others. 
I believe that the Parliament itself has more interest in referenda than have the political parties. Our error is to leave the changing of the Constitution to the political instruments and this can be nothing but a partisan exercise. I was deeply involved in the referendum we had in 1967 for the granting of authority to this Parliament to make laws for the Aboriginal people. That was a 10-year campaign. I will not say that it was scientifically developed but it happily developed along the lines that an educational program of that sort should develop. The result was that 90 per cent of the people of Australia voted in favour of the proposal. It may be that sometime in the future- perhaps at the next election or the election following the next Senate election or the House of Representatives election and the next Senate election- the Houses will be in balance again. It may well be and properly should be that my Party will be in government again or that my Party will have the majority in the other place and the Liberal and Country Parties will have the majority here, but we are all involved in it. Politics is a continuing thing. We should always remember that there are no bygones in politics for it will all happen again. Just as we find ourselves bedevilled by the constitutional processes of the last century now, it will happen to everybody else in the long run. I suggest that we get together on the questions of constitutional reform, the supremacy of this Parliament and the pre-eminence of the House of Representatives. 
I should like to take issue with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  not about the sentiments he expressed in so much of his speech but about the approach he has brought to this Parliament in attempting to have some action implemented. We have just listened to him make a speech of almost 10 minutes asking for continually expanded government action. Ever since he entered this Parliament he has supported the obstruction of Government action across the board in public utilities and in public expenditure, everywhere one can think of it. But in his own special area, the field of rice, he urges action. I do not know what his solution is. Would he make rice consumption compulsory? Of course he is not. In his own particular field he is interested in the continued government expansion of activity. So he complains bitterly about the transport system. He has a deep and considered view of the failures of the storage system and the enormous profit that people are making in the handling of these products. How do you overcome these deficiencies? Every one of those areas can be handled only by government action and an increase in government expenditure. I think that this is one of the economic challenges of the times. We have got ourselves caught up or hooked on a continuous demand for reduction in wasteful government expenditure. It is the continual theme. On the other hand we see that each problem to which we turn can be solved only by government activity and probably government expenditure. I say to the honourable member- he might take this with a slightly - 
-No, not with a grain of salt, because he would not find any way of selling that either. As the Minister in charge of Canberra for a couple of years it was one of my more enjoyable functions to attend the meetings of the Australian Agricultural Council. I am sure I brought great advantages to that august body with my wide experience in primary industry and so on! I found it an educational experience. 
-That is right. I am educable; I only wish that I could return the compliment. The facts are that of course in a situation such as this the more members of a Cabinet who can attend that kind of operation the better- and I went. I will not deal with rice, because that was not dealt with at the meetings, but I think that the same problems apply there. The meetings dealt with the question of the cattle industry and the immense productivity of the Australian industry. I think that Australia has something like 10 million more cattle than our consumption needs. If the figures that I have are correct, our production of meat this year will be 1.8 million tons and our consumption will be about 0.9 million tons. So there are 900 000 tons of meat to be disposed of somewhere. I agree with the honourable member that the hungry people of the world need our food. That food is not just rice; it is not just meat. I suppose it is also canned fruits and all the rest of it. I recognise the dietary problems. I recognise the distribution problems. But I -do appeal to the honourable member in the councils of the Party to which he belongs, that he start to reverse the trend which I see developing already, and that is a reduction in Australian aid to the needy countries of the world- the underdeveloped countries- whether it be Guatemala or anywhere else. As I took part in the deliberations of the Agricultural Council I could see that none of us knew the answers. 
It is true enough that in agriculture there is the fundamental question of the production on the land. Honourable members will be interested to know that that is where my family sprang from in this country. In many ways I am probably in touch as much with the people on the land- my ancestry being as deeply embedded in it- as for instance honourable members who happen to be bureaucrats in Party organisations. As the honourable members pointed out, the production line is not just the person who puts the seed in the ground; it is everybody involved. There will be no profit in attacks upon the trade union movement or the watersiders. There will be profit of course in improvement of the facilities at the ports, in the handling procedures and in the improvement of the transport system, in the upgrading of the railway system. 
I believe-and I guess that the honourable member agrees with me; he will probably say so in some debate at some stage in the next 6 months or so- that it does not really matter whether we get a profitable return on the railway system so long as it supplies the kind of service that we want. I say to the honourable member that I rose this evening because he provoked me to do so, insomuch as the theme he was developing, the objective that he had, was in such total contradiction to the policies that he is supporting in this House. It is not too late for him to see the light and join us. I would think he would have a bit of trouble getting endorsement. As I have watched the honourable member and have got to know and like him a bit since he came here- being a socialist I am broad minded- one of the puzzles I have is that he is so reactionary that I cannot understand why he is not in the Cabinet. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Whilst appreciating his comments about foreign troops in Angola I ask: Why does he maintain such a craven silence about the Indonesian invasion of East Timor? 
-The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  stirred up a reasonable number of dragons in his speech. I was starting to feel a bit terrified as I envisaged the enormous number of people who are going to swoop down on us. I should think that one of the reasons that the morale of the defence forces has slipped a bit is the nonsense talked by people like the honourable member. The suggestion that defence has been totally neglected is utter rubbish. I suggest that the honourable member looks at  Jane's Aircraft, Jane's Fighting Ships  and other books and he will see the strength of our defence, relative to our population, compared with the strengths around the world. The facts are that the manpower situation in the Australian armed forces is adequate for the present needs and any potential threats. The re-equipment policy has been moving along. Of course it is all conditional upon the wonderful obsession with not increasing the deficit. 
The remarkable feature of the honourable member's speech was his demand that the Government increase public expenditure at a time when it is saying that all expenditure has to be transferred to private enterprise. The honourable member cannot have it both ways. He must start to look at the leadership coming from his side of the House. For instance, the $60m expenditure on the superphosphate bounty may well have raised the morale of the troops if it had been made available for more equipment and training. I sympathise with servicemen who have inadequate training equipment. I sympathise with them for having inadequate resources at their disposal for proper manoeuvres. I believe that this is one of the matters which the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence will have to consider but I deny the continuous assertion that the previous Government- actually I mean 'the Government' and not the usurping operators who are there now- neglected defence. There has been an enormous change in our defence attitude and structures since we inherited the situation when troops were involved in Vietnam. I am glad that the Committee will have the opportunity to discuss these matters. 
The honourable member raised several other matters, including the situation in Africa. Africa was ripe for some kind of subversion. I hold the same view as the honourable member, and I expect that it is universal in this Parliament, that the intrusion of Cubans and Russians in Africa is regrettable. It is regrettable that the regimes there have taken so long to see the facts of life, as is happening in Rhodesia. I do not think honourable members opposite have anything to write home about. They would not even offer the resources of Australia to assist the United Nation's representative to visit Timor. 
I rose to speak about 2 matters associated with the Committee. I was a member of this Committee before 1972. 1 suggest that in considering committees of this nature we must attend to several matters if the committees are to work effectively. Our colleague the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  raised the general question of listening at great length, probably dozing at the end of the table, while we hear reports. I think committees must give more time to deliberation and less to listening. We must restructure our attitudes on committees in some way or another. The committees represent the alternative policy creation system of the parliamentary or representative, system. More and more work ought to be put to the parliamentary committees as a countervailing influence to the general bureaucratic system from which so much of our policy making is inclined to flow. 
Therefore, 2 points are important in the structuring of committees, and this applies to all of them. The first is the staffing of committees. I was a Minister for 3 years. During that time we increased the staffing available to Ministers and I would suggest that honourable members opposite have done themselves a disservice by reducing ministerial staffs. It is part of the countervailing system in a democracy that Ministers who are arms of the Parliament have adequate resources at their disposal for influence, for study and all the rest. I make this as a definite assertion as one who has been in this Parliament for a long time and as one who has had the experience of being a Minister. Then I look at the relationship between a Minister's capacity to handle matters and a committee's capacity to handle matters. I think it comes down to the resources placed at your disposal. The  Chairman  and the members of a committee have to have at their disposal the same quality of resources that is available to Ministers. That has something to do with staffing and other resources. 
The other point I would make is that committees should have a budget of their own, particularly a committee such as the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. There is no doubt that during the period of the committee's work it will wish to travel overseas. The Committee will apply to the Minister for permission to do this. The Minister, of course, will be looking at his own budget. The parliamentary system will not work unless our committee system has a budget of its own. It would not be difficult to say: 'What will be involved? Will it amount to $20,000, $30,000, $40,000 or $50,000?' The committee would be responsible for its expenditure. 
One of the quirks of the parliamentary system is how people are suddenly responsible when  they become Ministers and they are suddenly irresponsible when they are no longer Ministers. Every one of us is a potential Minister and exMinister. Every one of us has the same capacity of intellect and so on whether we are on the back bench or whether for the time being we sit on the front bench, and we are capable of making decisions of that kind. There are 2 factors in an effective working committee system. One is the need to have available adequate resources and staffing, and the other is the necessity for an independent budgetary arrangement. I responded to the remarks of the honourable member for St George because he did raise matters that were slightly controversial, and in fact he was subject to and needed pretty consistent correction. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The first point I want to make is related to the actual work of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island People and the powers that it has. The original Committee was formed in 1973. The motion setting up the original Committee was in these terms: 
That a Standing Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on matters referred to it by resolution of the House, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or by motion of the committee within the following terms: 
In other words, the Committee had the right to generate its own investigations. I think that is a very important power which all parliamentary committees should have. Unfortunately the tendency with our committees is always to restrict them to the first terms of reference and matters referred to them by the Minister. In this case the motion states: 
That a Standing Committee be appointed to inquire into, take evidence and report on: 
the present circumstances of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people and the effect of policies and programs on them, . . . 
I hope that that will allow the Committee to act with the same flexibility and freedom as did the previous Committee. As the Minister responsible for the creation of the original Committee in 1973, and having a feeling about the way in which this Parliament ought to work and about its freedom to operate without duress or restrictions imposed by the Executive and the ministry, I wrote that particular clause into the motion myself. I hope therefore that we are able to have that principle established. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  made several points which may well be answered without undue heat from this side of the House. As I understood it, my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  was not in any way being derogatory or denigrating the work of the non-defeated members of the former Committee by not mentioning them. In other words, he was paying a tribute to those people who are not here to look after themselves. I refer to Messrs Cross, Clayton, Collard, Dawkins and Thorburn. 
-No. I looked it up and made a list of them. Fortunately the honourable member for Parramatta carried it on. We in this House at least can pay them the compliment of getting their record on the record. No one is going to detract in any way from the work that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  did at various times. He carried on originally in what might be called an inclement environment among members on the other side of the House. That was before the arrival on the scene of the honourable member for Parramatta. As for the capacity of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  when he was Minister, occasionally he performed correctly when he got the correct advice. Occasionally he was unable to beat the system. Each person contributed in his own way. We on this side of the House would say that we brought a dramatic new impetus to the system but nobody can put the clock back. Some of our creations will make the system different but no matter what difficulty is created there is an improvement in some way or another. 
I take issue with the honourable member for Parramatta on this obsession, if that is not too harsh a word in such a friendly and courteous debate as we are having tonight, over alcoholism. I happen to be a reasonably dedicated wowser. I do not drink the stuff but I do not mind other people drinking it. They pay taxes and that makes life better for the people generally. The fact is that we are not going to reduce alcoholism by the perpetuation of poverty. Alcoholism in Aboriginal communities was not created by extravagance, by the flow of funds that occurred over the last 3 years. It is an unfortunate characteristic of all societies but unfortunately it is more characteristic in poverty stricken societies. The honourable member can rest assured that those of us on this side of the House who are concerned with this field will do everything in our power to try to find answers to this question. 
There are one or two other matters that I wish to mention. I hope nothing will be done to interfere with the development of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. My colleague the honourable member for Hughes mentioned that he was disappointed, or something of that order, with some of its work. Is this not so with all representative bodies? There are 42 per cent of the people of Australia deeply disappointed with the work of this Government. 
I am not saying that the honourable member was not prepared to do that. I just want to make sure that people on the Government side are aware that representative institutions have these difficulties. When that body was created a great deal of thought was given to how we would define the boundaries of electorates and how its members would be elected. There may well be different ways and better ways in which to make its members representative. One of its contributions is to provide, and to continue as, a voice for the Aboriginal people. 
The honourable member for Parramatta made some points at the end of his address which ought to be amplified. It is unfortunately and sadly true that in the field of Aboriginal affairs no authorities perform. Local government does not take roads out to the reserves or to where the Aborigines live- not universally anyway. It would be well worth while looking at the 400 communities in Australia where Aboriginal people live. The Telecommunications Commission does not put telephones out there. The health services are not quite as expansive and the education systems do not work quite as well. This is no reflection on any political party; it is endemic. I suppose it is almost epidemic throughout the continent but it is slowly changing. One of the duties of this Committee will be to stir up the authorities and to ensure that this situation changes enough so that we do not have to make this complaint continuously any more. This is a reasonably bipartisan area and there always will be differences between us. There will be some of us who think that we are going too slowly and there will be some who will have different objectives. However, the Committee is part of our bipartisan system by which we can develop this area. There still are some great battles to be fought, particularly on the question of land rights, mining developments and so on. I hope that the Committee gets the full support of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and that he makes sure that he places no restriction upon the use of its powers to travel, to examine and to report without inhibitions. 
-The reestablishment of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has become vitally important because of the way in which Canberra is being treated by the present Government at the present moment. The facts are that Canberra is a special case. We set out to examine the question of the government of this city. We have  recommendations before us flowing from the previous Committee. I believe that there is a strong case for a much greater study in depth of what government is about and how we are to govern an area such as this. There are very great areas of advantage to the rest of Australia by extending the form of government that was being developed here- the total integration of governmental systems. We still have some steps to take in this city towards integration so that the health services, the education services and general government run in a totally co-ordinated way. 
I am not an advocate of a completely centralised situation, especially since the change in the dictatorship in the place has produced a change of personnel and so on. But the facts are that as one saw this place operating over the 2 years of my ministry here, and compared it with the situation that applies in places such as the suburbs I represent in Melbourne, one could only wish that one were able to transfer the capacity to organise the social affairs and the other matters in the area to places such as Brunswick and Coburg to their advantage. Over the rest of Australia there is an enormous authority which cannot be co-ordinated, which do not even know one another and which sometimes are totally irresponsible. I instance institutions like the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. In this city, because housing, transport, land etc., are under the same authority, you can start to develop co-ordinated attitudes. I have an attitude to the development of self-government in this city which does not flow from an attitude towards structured institutions. I believe that we were taking the steps that were necessary towards the creation of an appropriate governmental system here. The Legislative Assembly was continuously asking for its powers to be defined. My own attitude to that was that it was an act of folly to attempt to define powers in a modern Australian situation. We are inflicted with a Constitution which I think was a creditable and notable feat of creation in the 1890s but which now, because of the restrictions imposed by its very terminology, inhibits all development, that in fact government should evolve. I believe that the participatory system we were developing, and which I presume we will continue to develop here, in other areas is of vital importance. 
I take issue with the current Government over the attack it has launched upon the living standards of the people of Canberra. I do not know whether the citizens of this city have yet done a proper evaluation of the cost of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  and his colleague in the other place. One of the first things that happened in Canberra under the current Government was that the price of land was increased. The Government could not justify that in any way. The land system had been developed over some years. The previous Government rescued it from the Gorton aberration of auction. We placed a pricing system upon it which I did not find totally satisfactory- I think the top prices were too high- but nobody had come up with a formula to prevent people who bought the land gaining by its capital appreciation. The facts are that under the previous Government the price at which land was sold gave an adequate return on the public investment. I do not think governments should ask for any more. For a government to become a trader and exploiter of land is wrong. I do not believe that the community has any right to exploit the citizen. I do not believe that the citizen has any right to take a capital gain out of the community's works. I place this before the Minister for the Capital Territory as one of the real social, ethical challenges we face in this area. 
I must say that I do not think the previous Government had arrived at a totally effective formula for selling land but at least the attempt to equate the price of land with some set of values so that people could walk into an office and buy it off the hook, to use an expression, without let or hindrance was a big improvement on the auction system. I regret the reintroduction of the auction system. There is no greater aberration inside the capitalist system than auction systems. We have been battling for years to rescue wool growers from that eccentricity by having to support it to the limit but now the Government has again inflicted it on the people of Canberra. 
What else has the Government managed to achieve in the last few months? I think somebody called the previous Minister for the Capital Territory Cyclone Robbie, no doubt for the destruction he wrought. He is probably being adequately served by his successor. Drivers licences and motor registration fees have gone up. The bus services upon which the previous Government lavished an enormous capital investment in an effort to establish a public transport system which would eventually attract people is now being completely destroyed. Nobody has satisfactorily designed a public transport system which will attract people from their motor vehicles in a city such as Canberra where everything conspires against that objective. The present Government will not do it by reducing the bus services. 
We reduced the bus services last October and November because the other House of this Parliament had set out to sabotage the parliamentary system to prevent our getting certain funds. When I was Minister for the Capital Territory I had a conference with some of my colleagues who did not hold the same totally friendly attitude to the citizens of this city as I did- that is the then Minister for Transport, the then Treasurer, who had the normal attitude of Treasurers to citizens in these matters, and the then Minister for Urban and Regional Developmenton a package deal by which we would lump together receipts from road users, particularly the money from motor registration fees, bus fares and parking meters, for use in the transport system. That is on the records somewhere as an agreement or an attitude, but I think it is a question to which we all could turn our minds. My view is that over and above certain expenditure, rationally some of the excess funds gained from motor registration fees could be put into the general transport system. 
The construction industry is starting to feel the cold winds in Canberra. I think the government conveyancing office has been abandoned altogether. If it has not, it is under sentence of death. Retrenchments are starting to inflict themselves upon the community, and the availability of Commissioner for Housing loans has been reduced. I do not think any of this was necessary. It is the product of an archaic, outmoded, anachronistic, theoretical view of economics. There is no doubt in my mind that the course upon which the Government has embarked in Canberra is an example of what is happening in the rest of Australia where it cannot be so easily seen. I know that the Minister lives in a totally authoritarian system in which he will do what the Cabinet says. I do not know who tells Cabinet, but I guess its instructions come from some remote caucus which decides these matters. The facts are that the principal and first victims of this Government have been the citizens of Canberra. All I can say is that I regret that it has happened to the people who had the good sense to vote for my friend, the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  All the villainies ought to be inflicted upon those people who were so ill serviced intellectually as to send to this place our friend, the present honourable member for Canberra. He must be about the most expensive citizen that this House has acquired. One of these days I will work out for the people of Canberra just how much he has cost them. 
I am taking a valid point. 
-The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  must be losing his sense of proportion. Is not the honourable member's Government the government that will abolish legal aid so that the citizen cannot find any protection whatsoever against anybody, let alone against the state? I find it a little difficult to believe that my former parliamentary colleagues,  Mr Justice  Murphy and  Mr Kep  Enderby, were intimidated by their departments about anything. I agree with the honourable gentleman that the matter he has referred to ought to be taken to the appropriate authority. 
I rise briefly to raise the matter of long service leave for private employees in the Australian Capital Territory. I move to do so because I understand that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  in conjunction with the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  are taking this matter to Cabinet. The situation is that the only people in Australia who have no long service leave rights are private employees in the Australian Capital Territory. During the regime of the Labor Government we took steps to remedy this situation. The legislation was prepared. It passed through the Legislative Assembly and was given long and careful consideration. The documents were all signed. The Caucus agreed to it. Full consideration had been given to the matter at every level so that there would be no conflict with long service leave conditions in other parts of Australia. There is no excuse for any delay whatsoever. Shortly after the usurpation I put pen to paper and wrote to whatever Minister was acting by whatever writ was running for the moment and asked him to implement the scheme. He did not do so. Honourable members may be able to speak to the Ministers involved. 
I remind the House that the situation is that the only people in Australia who have no long service leave entitlements are private employees in the Australian Capital Territory. The matter has been appropriately considered by the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. It was given long consideration by our industrial committee. All the documents were assigned. The Government should have proceeded with it. I hope that there will be no attempt whatsoever to water down the scheme. Long consideration was given to it. The Legislative Assembly took steps which made it not so much long service leave as short service leave. But in the end, by 1 1 November, all had been finalised and the matter was clear. I hope that honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for St George, interested as he is in the rights of citizens, will take up this matter with the 2 Ministers concerned. I am sorry that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  now will not be able to discourse upon the nation's affairs as the House adjourns at 1 1 o 'clock. 
-That is all right. If the honourable member writes to me I shall consider the matter. 
It would be churlish of me not to admit that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  is a trier and that scattered through his 20-minute speech were a lot of thoughts that were based upon compassion but perhaps with not a great deal of understanding of what this subject is all about. One must say firmly that he is now going to continue to support one of the most reactionary and pettifogging governments with which this country has been inflicted in many a long year. During the course of his operations of course he cannot get out of the intellectual affliction known as looking in the past and living in it- the demonology of Labor Budgets, that Labor created inflation and all the other nonsense that goes into the non-thinking behind it all. We inherited some of the inflation. We possibly created wage and other pressures by all sorts of actions we took. But to say it was Labor created inflation, a government created inflation, of course is to dodge all the issues with which Australia is faced. 
Tonight I want to say a few words about the repatriation system. But in view of the remarks made by the honourable member for Sturt I believe it is important that I say something from this side of the House. First of all I refer to the Government's attitude to funeral benefits. I do not think that anything exemplifies better the approach of the present Government to the whole system of human benefits and social relationships than the decision to remove funeral benefits. The sum involved is minute by any national standard. As the honourable member for Sturt has said, this is a great emotional issue for many people in the community, particularly for people living in areas such as the industrial area that I represent and in which basically a big proportion of the working people are living on around about or below average weekly earnings and a fairly large percentage are pensioners of various sorts. I believe that the removal of the benefit is a demonstration of a total lack of compassion and understanding on the part of the Government. 
The Government's approach to social security matters is also exemplified by the date on which the benefits proposed in this legislation are to commence- 13 May 1976. Honourable members opposite may well say that this has been the traditional practice. But I suppose what shook the community more than anything else was the statement that by removing the funeral benefit we will save X million dollars. This is a very miserable exercise indeed. The honourable member for Sturt, of course, is inclined to think that basically all is well in the social security system.  His  attitude is that there are many things to be done, of course, but we can gently plod along and do them. He pointed out that we are looking for justice and equity for pensioners. He says that we must examine average weekly earnings as an index for the system. I suppose that what we should be looking at in a community such as this- and I take issue with the honourable member on the use of the words 'automatic' and 'regular'- is the standard of living of a person receiving benefits, be they pensions due to age or invalidity or unemployment benefits. We should be looking at what is a reasonable standard of living in an Australia such as this- a country which is one of the wealthiest in the world and probably in many respects one of the easiest countries to organise. 
-No, Wills is a very well organised society. The people there have great political perception and have managed to stand steady no matter what the rest of the continent has done. They are a remarkably gifted political group. In fact I am quite confident that probably the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  would receive the benefit of their judgment too because they are perceptive enough to see past his Queensland background and recognise that basically he is a first class, highly talented person. But that is by the way. 
Our social security system is the inherintance of the past. It is a tangle with which we are inflicted. As one compares the benefits in the repatriation system with the benefits in the social security system one sees the anomalies that flow. I will admit, with the honourable member for Sturt and with many other people in the community, that it is time we analysed the whole system and came around to what one would call a reasonable standard of living. I take issue with the honourable member not on the question of semantics but on the question of automaticity- if that is the way it is pronounced- and regularity. It is true that there ought to be automatic adjustments as the economy changes. But really the regularity of such adjustments is more important. 
Over the last 3 years there has been a remarkable increase in the standard of living of the average person in Australia. There is no doubt in my mind that the average citizen, up until the last month or two anyhow, has had more money left over after meeting the general demands of living costs than he has ever had before. But there is no doubt in my mind that the transfer of wealth from the profit area to the wage area of the economy produced the great area of social satisfaction and greater quality of life for a large number of Australian people. Of course, in these circumstances it is easy for the pensioned person to fall behind in relativity. As the honourable member for Stun pointed out, there are many families in the community that are receiving 2 incomes and the person relying on benefits is likely to be receiving 1 income. Therefore we have to examine the whole status of the situation. We have to start to make some value judgments about what is the real standard of living in Australia. I look for a community in which the distance between the lowest salary levels and the highest salary levels is less than it is at the moment. That does not mean that the standard of living of people further along the line is reduced but the standard of people lower down the line is raised. I would suggest that we consider not only the amounts but the general principles upon which they are calculated. I wanted to deal tonight - 
Debate interrupted. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Did the Prime Minister take note of the advice proffered by the honourable member for Denison in the House last Wednesday night when he said that the time for criticism of the previous Administration had run out and that it was a very negative approach for the present Government to rely on criticising what was done between 1972 and 1975? When is the Prime Minister going to stop blaming the previous Government and other authorities for the country's problems and to start accepting the responsibility for his own Government's lack of initiative, impetus and imagination? For example, will he--- 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, this must be the Liberal Party's and the Australian National Country Party's proudest hour. We have seen the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  waving his arms and pointing in various directions but not making it quite clear what the directions were. By sound and fury he might have confused the people who were still listening in although customarily I would expect that when they heard him announced they would switch off. They would forget what it was all about. We are discussing here tonight the repeal by the Government of a section of the Social Services Act which gave funeral benefits to the pensioners of Australia. The benefit was about $40. The sum involved this year was perhaps $700,000 but in the first flurry of the return to office of the people opposite, they decided that they must show the people of Australia that the time had come to show restraint; to pull in the belt; to reduce expenditure; to get out of the public sector into the private sector; and to do all the other things that are going to save us from destruction. So who do they pick on first? The people least able to stand it at the moment of their greatest deprivation; the people who receive funeral benefits. So we heard the honourable member for Griffith. 
I must say that I did not quite understand what he was saying. I did my best. I was not quite sure whether he was for the proposal or against it. But I am quite confident that when the vote comes up he is going to vote for the repeal of this section. 
That is right. As my colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide points out, he voted for the superphosphate bounty. But before we go much further on that line there is a correction to which I think he ought to be subject. He passed some remark about the extraordinary administrative expenses involved in the system. I understand that the appropriation in 1974-75 was $3,800m for social services. The administrative expenses were about $75m- 2 per cent- 2c in every $1. 1 would presume that that applies to the administration of this area too. It ought to be possible for the honourable member for Griffith to get his facts straight. 
Then there was the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  At least I will say this for him. When his Party was under fire, fortified by his yean of experience in that august body the Legislative Council of Tasmania, he was prepared to stand here and take us all on. He made it quite clear though, that he had had sleepless nights about it. He was worried about it. He did not really approve, but he is not going to carry his disapproval so far as to vote against it here in this House. That is the final test. If you vote for this you are voting for one of the most insensitive actions that a government has carried out in a long while. If it were part of the whole package of change in which the social security system was going to be amalgamated with something else, in which people were going to receive benefits across the board and this removal of this one was part of a package deal, well then we on this side of the Committee would not be taking any exception to it. But this was pan of a different sort of deal. It was part of a political deal to try to get atmospherics in the community- these men mean business. The great and powerful leadership, steeped in the traditions of the past of the Melbourne Club and the squattocrazy and so on. He would show us what could be done; he will punch the pensioners, and nothing that you say opposite about hypocrisy or cant, about political footballs or anything else can claim the climate of that. That is what it is all about. What a miserable pettifogging action. I do not know how many people are involved; perhaps up to 40 000 in a year. What does it mean to them? When we consider issues of this nature in this place it is fair enough to take the national content. But you have also to consider the personal content of the other end. And the facts of life are of course that in a country such as this $700,000, a million or so, is chicken feed in the national Budget. But to the people receiving $40, people who are pensioners, people at the time of greatest loss, it is quite an important matter. But also in many of these matters- and I work in a community to which these things are important- there is a psychological question that has been raised by the persons opposite. So this evening we reject the charge of hypocrisy and cant. My honourable friend from Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  changed the standard of life of every pensioner in this country, and he did it in the face of the hottest critical opposition you could encompass, from obstructions from State governments, from obstructions from the other place, from appeals to the High Court in various areas, and all the rest of it. Every possible obstruction was carried out. We changed the style of life, the standard of living and the quality of life of everybody subject to benefits under this Government. 
Rubbish, he says. A little while ago the honourable member for Parramatta thought it was a breach of privilege almost to suggest that we should let the people of his electorate know how he votes in this place. It is not rubbish. Get the figures; have a look at the amount of money left in people's hands; take a look at the electoral offices where people come in. As one pensioner came into my own office a few weeks ago before the State election in Victoria and said: 'Pass this on to the Labor Party; it is $5. We know what the Labor Party did for us. ' You have only got to do the arithmetic. Perhaps they do not teach arithmetic any more. You have only got to relate the pension to pounds of butter and pints of milk, to the removal of the means test for people over 70 years old, to see what a difference it has made. Unfortunately, no matter what the honourable members opposite may think or feel, no matter what they might say in the Party room, no matter how much they may plead for consideration, the facts are that the pensioners' standard of living is going to go downwards over the next few years. The honourable member for Denison said that the people who were distressed in 1975 are going to be grateful in 1978- grateful because in 1978 they will have a chance to throw this graceless lot out of office. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, last night I spent a few minutes dealing with the subject of the 2 Bills that are before the House- one relating to repatriation and related matters and one relating to social services. They both purport to update the amounts of money paid as benefits under the 2 Acts which they seek to amend. We on this side of the House accept, firstly, that the indexation principle that is applied in these Bills is a useful one, but as usual the Government has failed to carry out its duty in both areas in accordance with its own expressed policies in the past and the needs of the community at the moment. Last night I followed the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  who, perhaps, is rather typical of honourable members opposite, except that he shows a little more understanding of the subject. But I think I could say that generally speaking, he was long in view and short in understanding. He was a little too sympathetic to the economic situation in which the Government claims to find itself and a little less sympathetic in understanding what is required to be done immediately at this point of time. 
The criticisms that we have to offer are based on a number of factors. Firstly, there has been a failure on the part of the Government to take up the guarantee that it gave earlier on social services, which was part of its electoral platform. But there are several pieces of pettifoggery associated with it. First of all, let me take the commencement date of the increased social security payments- 13 May 1976. I recall that when the announcement about this commencement date was made some time ago the Minister was expressing some gratitude that we were able to save some millions of dollars by deferring the commencement date. But as is the custom of honourable members opposite they attempt to balance their budgets and to solve their financial problems by depriving the people least able to support the measures. 
Then there was the other question of funeral benefits. If it were not for the other benefits that are provided in these Bills we would, of course, oppose the Bills simply because of the piece of pettifoggery associated with the removal of funeral benefits. Surely honourable members opposite recognise the feelings of the people in the community about this matter, particularly those people who have to be the beneficiaries of such government payouts. It is an emotional question in many areas. Although over the last 3 years the general citizenry in Australia, particularly that section of it which is likely to need this kind of benefit, has been better off financially than it was before, the facts are that this matter is a worry to a great number of people in the community. It is a miserable exercise indeed to remove the benefit, and we say so. 
The other point of criticism is that dependants' allowances themselves are not dealt with in this legislation. In fact dependants' allowances remain at their present level. They are not indexed. Of course, it is all part of the total payment that people receive. The time has come for us to take an overall look at the whole social security system to make absolutely certain, in the first instance, that the payments that we are considering now are adequate for 1976. In listening to the speeches of honourable members opposite one could only be struck with the Government's obsession with cliches and with repeating them. For instance, the honourable member for Sturt, as do other honourable members opposite, continuously talks about inflation. They put forward the idea that inflation is a particular Labor Party invention. We all know that probably some factors have been induced in the inflationary system by our actions. It may well be that the steps that we took to make sure that the people who produced the goods in the community received just reward for their work contributed to the inflationary spiral. But it is also true that the import prices, which rose in this country, also formed part of the inflationary pressures. It is true that we inherited things from the past. It is also true that the people in the community who make profits strive as hard as they can to increase their prices and their profits regardless of whether people will be affected by inflation or not. 
The question that I ask honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Sturt who pours out his soul here- he is so devoted to the cause of the nation and all the rest of it- is: Where did he stand on 8 December 1973 when we conducted a referendum on price control? How different would the situation be if that referendum had been carried? Perhaps it would not be a great deal different, but certainly we would have had better instruments with which to control the system. What happened to the referendum in the electorate of Sturt, which was the honourable member's responsibility? He opposed it, as did all his colleagues. Of course, the referendum was lost in the electorate of Sturt. The honourable member could have taken a leaf out of the book of the people of Wills who voted substantially in favour of the referendum. Honourable members opposite would have a pretty heavy burden to carry if they had a conscience at all in relation to that matter. Continuing attacks are being made on the Labor Government in the kinds of statements that are made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He talks about bad administration. What exactly does he mean? You cannot escape by continually using generalities. So the social security base is being eroded by not tackling such questions as dependants' allowances, by not updating the system, by not making sure that there are automatic adjustments for price rises. We should be taking steps to remove anomalies. 
I suggest to the House that we should examine the various social service systems which we have inherited from the past, one of which is the Repatriation Act and the other is the Social Services Act, plus a large number of others, and try to relate them to one another and try and reduce the complexity of the system. We must raise the general standard of benefits available to the people of Australia to the highest levels that can be attained. 
Whenever this subject comes up, I have a feeling, perhaps because of the generation to which I belong, that one should say something in defence of the repatriation system. There is a tendency now for people to say that the whole system should be abolished, that the Department should be phased out and something else done. I believe that would be a wrong procedure. I should remind the House and the millions outside listening eagerly to this speech how many people are involved. From the 1914-18 conflict there are 15 000 ex-servicemen and women, 22 000 of their dependants, and 20 000 people who are dependants of deceased ex-servicemen- 57 000 in all. From the 1939-45 conflict there are enormous numbers- 176 000 ex-servicemen and women, 213 000 dependants, 34 000 dependants of deceased people, a total of 500 000 or more. From the conflicts in Korea, Vietnam and elsewhere there are some 27 000. 
Over half a million people are involved in what is a unique social security system. It is 
Australia's most experienced social security system. I suppose in a way it is Australia's most generalised social security system, including as it does, benefits across the board from students' allowances to support for soldiers' children through housing and all the rest of it. There is a lot to be learned in the social security area from the simple application of many of the principles we have evolved over the years in repatriation. I have never been able to work out why we have not got round to applying the principles of the repatriation system to third party insurance, for instance, as we were attempting to do under the national compensation scheme. One has only to compare the intricacy, the complexity and the absolute cost in the third party area with the Repatriation Tribunal's procedures to see how much we could benefit by simply applying the lessons we have learned there. 
I remind the House tonight that on an occasion such as this there ought to be steps taken now to raise the general level of payments. A person on the totally and permanently incapacitated rate of pension would be getting something like $147 a week, taking into account his wife's allowance. Now, that sounds a lot for a pension system. But what is the situation in the rest of the community? I think average weekly earnings have now reached about $160 a week. Consider the situation of a young person conscripted to fight in Vietnam and, as a result, totally incapacitated, never able to work.  His  life will be circumscribed absolutely by the income he receives from the repatriation system. Relatively, he has been conscripted into a lifetime of poverty. Although some of the things that have been said about the repatriation system and the general levels of benefits- that they are some of the best in the world- may well be true, but that is not all there is to it. 
The benefits that have come to a person in the repatriation system flow as a compensation. They are some attempt by the community to repay for loss, suffering, incapacity and inconvenience. A lot of these inconveniences, of course, are not observable. People who have been wounded in action, or knocked about in accidents during the war or something of that nature- made slightly less efficient physically over a lifetime- cannot be recompensed adequately. They can be given only some sort of support. For most of the people involved in it, of course, adequate support in time of illness is an important question. We have always been pretty meagre about that. We, during the course of our operations as a government, were attempting to expand the repatriation system and to bring the community into its benefits, particularly in the hospital area. 
It has always amazed me that there is so much criticism of the idea of a national salaried medical service, when so many people, some half million or thereabouts, use a salaried medical service in the form of the Repatriation Department. They use nationalised medical services in the hospitals. They go into nationalised public hospitals. They find that they are as good as hospitals are anywhere. I have been a customer of the Repatriation Hospital at Heidelberg in Victoria on a number of occasions. I suggest that it is as efficient and as effective as any other hospital in the system. It is a pretty good example of what a national health service ought to be. Tonight I am suggesting that the House give serious thought to taking the lessons out of the repatriation system, taking some of the standards we have adopted in the repatriation system and applying them as rapidly as possible to the rest of the community through the social security system. It is Australia's most experienced social security service. It is the one that is, generally speaking, the most ubiquitous, and to those who happen to get under the benefit umbrella of the system, probably the most accessible. 
Therefore tonight we on this side of the House are reproving the Government for its failure to update such things as dependants' allowances. We are voting against the removal of funeral benefits, and we object to the deferment of the beginning of the social security payments because, as I said earlier, and as my colleagues on this side of the House have reiterated, it is one of the characteristics of this Government that the people who are the least able to pay are the ones it will make pay. 
-That was a rather quaint speech from the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock. He has some disdain for the emotional approach which he alleges we on this side of the chamber have brought to the subject but he has got quite angry about the fact that we have done so. He thinks it is emotional to want death with dignity for the pensioners. He thinks that it is a matter for anger when people on this side of the chamber put a political point with some vigour. What on earth was he talking about? Apparently he is advocating the soft society approach adopted by one of his colleagues. The honourable member for Parramatta was talking about a sensible and rational approach to the question of funeral benefits, pensions and social security. He says that aged people are unable to understand what the Government is at. I do not blame them for that because we do not know what the Government is at. With a $23, 000m Budget in one of the wealthiest countries in the world this Government has chosen to solve some of the problems of the economy, so it thinks, by a piece of phoney arithmetic. This Government is going to reduce public expenditure by $700,000 in the coming half year and save money by eliminating the $40 funeral benefit in respect of pensioners who are deceased. 
The issue behind the funeral benefits is certainly an emotional and psychological one from the pensioners point of view, not those on this side of the chamber. If those people on the other side knew all about it, as they choose to say they do, they would understand what it means. The fear of the threat of a pauper's grave still hangs over many people of an older generation than anybody in this place and of whom there are countless thousands in the community. That is what it is all about. The funeral benefit has been there for the last 32 or 33 years and now it is being abolished in a fine flurry of balancing the budget at the expense of people who can least afford to pay. That is what this Government is doing. 
Honourable members on the Government side talk about rationalising the social security system. The honourable member for Parramatta expects people to understand. What has he tried to get them to understand? He tried to get them to understand that when they are deprived of something it is good for them. Let us consider some of the arguments. One was the administrative exercise. Because departments and governments in the past have not resolved the question of creating economic administrative procedures, because 2 clerks might have to look at a death certificate in order to pay out this benefit, the benefit is being abolished. Would not the more rational and humane procedure be to clarify the administrative procedures instead? Of course it would. This sum of $40 is real when it gets into the hands of the people at the other end. 
Honourable members opposite say that this benefit really is a benefit to the beneficiaries of the estate. Perhaps it is; perhaps it is not. Many people who benefit from the death of pensioners do not have all that much going for them anyway. I believe it is nonsense to talk that way. Government supporters are trying to build a case around a situation which is quite indefensible. The other night the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  had something to say about the expense of administration, as did the honourable member for Parramatta. I told the honourable member for Griffith then that some $75m of the allocation of $3, 800m in the current budget for our social security system goes into administration, which is perhaps 2 per cent of the whole. I think the figure cited by the honourable member for Griffith was that it costs $8,000 to administer the social security system for every person in Australia on the poverty line. 
I think that is the figure the honourable member mentioned. 
I do not know how the honourable member arrives at that figure. I think it is estimated that one million people are below the poverty line in Australia and 8000 times one million is 8000 million. Our total social security payments are $3, 800m and the total budget is $23,000m. I do not know how the honourable member for Griffith came by those figures. Perhaps that is the kind of statistic which his party brings into consideration when dealing with electoral redistributions. I do not know much about where the honourable member for Griffith got his statistics. I do not claim to be an expert on reading his mind but I did learn arithmetic and 8000 times one million is 8000 million. That ought to be clear even to somebody from north of the McPherson Ranges. In all these arguments an immense number of non-facts is produced in order to confuse and confound. 
Which Prime Minister? 
-The authority quoted to me is the policy speech of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Prime Minister of Australia for the time being. Of what is that statement evidence? It is simply evidence that another fact has gone the same way as all the promises of the Prime Minister. This Government was going to restore the dignity of life to everybody in Australia, even to pensioners. What would have been the situation if the formulas the Government has produced for pensioners had been applied? Pensioners would have been $10 a week worse off for the last 3 years than they were under the system carried through by the Labor Government. 
The Australian social security system does need a thorough overhaul but, like a lot of things in this life, steps should not be taken which produce irrevocable and irreparable damage to some while things are being worked out. It is said that if you are lost in the air you press on until you manage to find out where you are and what you do next. If the Government does not know exactly where it is going in the field of social security payments the logical step for it to take in a compassionate and humane society is to continue existing benefits until they can be replaced adequately. It should not resolve the administrative question, the financial question or the theoretic economic question by taking things from the pensioners. It should continue on until it has done something about the total social security system. I would be the first to admit that our social security system is complicated, inequitable and perhaps often wasteful in some areas. 
We did a lot of things about these matters. We appointed the social welfare commission and did other things. An acrosstheboard examination was being carried out. No person is going to resolve these questions immediately, not even the blazing intellects of honourable members opposite who arrived in the last few months are going to be able to do so. The facts are as I cited them the other night. In my view the repatriation system has many techniques which would be of advantage if applied to the social security system. Some of the standards that we apply to pensions in the repatriation field could easily and equally be of benefit to pensions in the social security system. On what basis is the Government operating? We of the Labor Party lifted the standard of living of the pensioners of Australia by a very great measure but what, after all, were our aims? We are still flying blind in this area. What is a reasonable standard of living in Australia in 1976? We have not resolved that question. It is quite obvious that the present Government is not going to resolve it either. We on this side of the House think that the abolition of the funeral benefit is a miserable and contemptible action. It has no benefit for the national economy. It will produce anxiety and deprivation to some 17 000 or 20 000 people in the next six or eight months. In my view that is inexcusable and indefensible. I hope the House will vote against it. I hope that honourable members on the Government side who feel as they said they feel about this matter will take their courage in their hands, defy the Prime Minister and vote with us on this issue. 
-I will not take long. I am a little astonished at the selective indignation of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in this respect. Is there any real need to tell us what the situation is in central Europe and eastern Europe concerning civil rights and human rights? Of course not. But it would not be a bad idea if a person such as he were to stand up in this House and say something about the rights of human beings in Timor being trampled on. Why is he so silent on that? Why is he silent about Rhodesia? Why is he silent about South Africa? 
Why is he silent about Angola and the rest of them? It is one of the great misfortunes of this planet at the moment that of its 1 50 countries or thereabouts there is only a handful of them in which human rights and civil rights prosper, but they are being trampled on every day all round the world and not the least by people such as the honourable member for Mackellar and the kind of political party of which he is a member. Let us examine those strictures which he has passed upon the recent changes in the Polish constitution. I for one have always stood up in this place on behalf of people and their rights as individuals against the intransigence of the law and the law makers against conscription and such like and on behalf of the trampled peoples of the world. Let us examine what sort of political philosophy the honourable member for Mackellar supports and espouses in this place and elsewhere. Firstly, he says that the Communist Party in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is attempting to create a one-party state. That is what he does every time an electoral Bill comes before this Parliament. He supports every electoral alteration which will make the continuation of his party in office absolute if possible and he associates himself continually with the most mischievous and malevolent gerrymandered of all time, the National Country Party of Australia, which has managed to make many parts of Australia one-party areas. 
-The honourable member for Maranoa is a gentle soul. He is a Christian gentleman. If only he would look at his politics in the same way as he looks at the rest of humanity. The fact is, of course, that it is a piece of humbug for the honourable member to talk like this in this place unless he does it continually on all sorts of issues 
Let us consider the subject of the State Council of Poland being given the right to interpret the constitution. On 13 December the honourable member finalised the action of 11 November when the whole Australian Constitution was torn up and handed over for interpretation to one man- an appointed official. He will go out to his residence this afternoon and pay his respects to him, instead of starting to look at the constitutional situation and seeing what has been imposed upon the Australian people. The honourable member talked about the foreign policy of Poland. I am like him in that I do not want to accept satellitism in any state. Of course, in the 26 years or thereabouts that he has been a member of this chamber he has attempted to make Australia a continuing and persistent doormat-type satellite of the United States of America. On every occasion he has tried to make this country a part of American foreign policy. Then he talks about the subversion of democracy. Since I have been in this Parliament the Liberal and Country Parties have done everything possible to subvert democracy. They have trampled on every possible civil right. Take a look at the Crimes Act that they passed about ten or eleven years ago. Take a look at the electoral system, which tries to make it impossible for the Australian Labor Party to win office. Take a look at the conscription system which they imposed upon the young men of Australia. Take a look at the penal clauses which they have imposed on the people through the industrial legislation. 
I am like the honourable member for Mackellar, as are my colleagues on this side of the House, in that I despise the trampling of civil rights and human rights. We do not want it to happen to anyone in the world- Poles, Timorese, Rhodesians or anyone else. But I object to his taking up the time of the House in a situation such as this with such selective indignation. When he starts to speak for the people of the world who are being oppressed, irrespective of whether they are near to home or far away and regardless of who is doing it, we will have some respect for his arguments. I hope that before too much time elapses the Government will recognise its duties to the people of Timor and take up their case as vigorously as the honourable member's heart bleeds for the people of Poland, who still have a long way to go in the present situation before they are as badly off as the people of East Timor. 
I direct my question to the Foreign Minister, who has continued to criticise the stand of the Labor Government on Indonesian actions in East Timor. Is it not a fact that pressure from Australia under the Labor Government forced Indonesia to be extremely cautious in its actions in East Timor until he took over office and that it was not until he had been the Minister for some weeks that Indonesia felt free to actually invade East Timor in force? Does he admit that his efforts were less effective than those of the Labor Government? 
-It is pretty apparent that the Parliament, or at least this House of the Parliament, supports the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in what he is doing. I suppose that in the face of the situation in the Senate it can be said that the Minister is not just attempting to do something; in this case it will be done. I think that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  was a little less than gracious in his remarks. As I recall the history of the defence force retirement benefits scheme, the situation had been swinging for many years, with people attempting to have readjustments made and new systems introduced, until finally a report was produced during the term of office of the Government prior to December 1972. It was not implemented by the end of 1972. The Labor Government post- 1972 implemented it and, I think, made some minor adjustments to it which removed anomalies, difficulties and penalties which confronted people seeking early retirement. 
I do not think it does the Parliament much service not to admit that sometimes one's opponents can be right. Perhaps the Labor Government was unduly slow in making adjustments; but my friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  pointed out that the extraordinary circumstances of the last 3 years made it very difficult to arrange for the actual passage of any legislation. The Superannuation Bill is still hanging fire, despite the almost unanimous agreement of the members of the Parliament about it. In the consideration of any matter associated with servicemen we have to face the reality that service in the armed services is of a different order from that in any other area of the Public Service. It is true- we hope it always will be true- that servicemen may serve for many years at a base in Australia in comfort, returning home every night; but, of course, when the trumpet sounds their lives, their homes and everything else are on the line and the ultimate sacrifice may well be called for. Therefore, service in the armed services is of a different order from any other service. 
I appeal to the Minister to take whatever steps he can to make adjustments which will remove the various tangles that still apply in the various benefits systems. I recognise, and the Opposition recognises- I suppose everybody does- the great difficulties we face now in making adjustments in accordance with inflation and changes in money values. It is probably true that under an inflationary system most citizens become slightly better off if they are at work and things keep up with the general revaluation of money. The exceptions are those people who are on fixed benefits, and there are countless thousands of them in the community. This is one of the challenges we all have to face, and perhaps one about which we have not done all that much in the past- not effectively anyhow. So, the Minister can rely on the Opposition to give him whatever support and assistance it is possible to give in trying to find a permanent method of making adjustments to pensions. 
I am reminded of some people I know who retired way back and are still on deck. They did not have their pensions adjusted and brought up to date in line with, say, those of presently retiring servicemen. I make a friendly appeal to the Minister to do something about those people who retired perhaps 12 or 13 years ago, or a little earlier, when a new system was starting to be introduced. Their service to the nation was of an extraordinarily high order. I think of one person whose service extended from the tail end of the First World War right through the Second World War. He was one of the most senior commanders we have had in any field. He retired 12 or 13 years ago, or perhaps a little earlier, on the pension of the time. People who retired later with an equivalent rank or even a much lesser rank but with a much less order of service of course are much better placed financially. So, there are anomalies, as my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  pointed out, associated with wives, widows and dependants. There are anomalies associated with people who retired in the distant past to which we have to apply our attention. I ask the Minister to make a note in his notebook to have these matters looked at. He will even find on the files, if they are available to him, letters to previous Ministers about the subject. I remind the House that I think the honourable member for Herbert was a little less than gracious in his denunciation of the previous Government. On the whole, I think the previous Government made life much better altogether for servicemen than had been the case previously, particularly with regard to financial and retirement benefits. 
-We are back into the twice annual exercise of looking at the public accounts and the way the Government handles the economy. We are dealing with 2 Appropriation Bills. This legislation, which is brought in towards the end of each financial year, covers what one might call the petty cash situation and under this legislation it is to the tune of $500m. In this year it is a very important exercise because the Government has chosen to adopt as its theme 'savings'- savings of public expenditure. In almost every instance, according to the document tabled in this House upon the introduction of this legislation, there has been some deprivation of some citizens somewhere. Here we are in 1976 in an age of extreme challenge, an age that asks for inspiration and we seem to be inflicted with the most shallow and irrelevant Government possible. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr 
Lynch) and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  are going through a whole series of charades, one might say, chanting one after the other certain forms of public advice about how they will save Australia from the past. They include a reduction in the size of the Public Service; cuts in government expenditure, budgetary savings; we have to reduce social security; we have to tighten our belts. But on the other hand, we have to spend up big. A kind of Liberal litany has developed which will not solve anything. The 1976 challenge seems to me to make this Government more irrelevant than even its Liberal-Country Party predecessors even though many of them were members of the previous Government. What defeats me in my examination of Australian politics is how the people of Australia could have forgotten so soon what these people opposite were like the last time they were in office. 
What is the situation now? Productivity in Australian industry in almost every case has practically outrun consumption needs, in most areas anyhow. Factory after factory throughout Australia is reduced to about 80 per cent capacity but industry is still able to out-produce the needs of the citizens as defined by the things they buy. There is no shortage of television sets, colour or black and white. There is no shortage of refrigerators, motor cars, railway lines or anything else. Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is running at perhaps 80 per cent capacity. I represent one of the great industrial areas in Australia which produces almost all things that society needs. It has one of the world's largest, I suspect- and certainly one of the largest in countries such as ours- photographic manufacturing institutions. It produces about five-sevenths of Australia's hosiery. It was one of the centres of the Aus.tralian textile industry. It has a large involvement in componentry for the motor vehicle industry and so on through the whole catalogue of human needs. 
Some of the factories of course are not all that aesthetically pleasing. They do not look too bright from the outside. There is a certain functional approach by Australians to expenditure on what one might call investment. If the building stands up it may well have inside it some of the most sophisticated equipment in the world. One of the things that has struck me over the last few years is how very small industries will spend very large sums of money to bring themselves up to date. Whether industries are making shirts, whether they are in the field of moulding or whether it is the Australian Government Clothing Factory they are matching the world in productivity. There is very little that we can do to absorb all their manufacturing capacity even by inciting the citizens to spend. Nobody is going to rush out and buy an extra couple of motor cars because the Prime Minister thinks he ought to. Nobody is going to buy another dozen shirts. 
This is probably one of the greatest challenges of the last 300 years. It is a state of change that is as fundamental, as far as I can see, as that which came over the human intellect when Copernicus issued his challenge that the world was not the centre of the universe, that the world went around the sun, the sun did not go around the world; or when Columbus clarified the issues for all who cared to look that the earth is round; or the collapse of imperialism over the last fifteen or twenty years which has changed the shape of international affairs and put about 150 nations into the world- a series of water-sheds. This is the biggest one in our area since the Industrial Revolution, yet the Liberal and Country parties continue to talk as if cliches such as free enterprise, the judgment of the market place and less government will solve the problems; all this despite the lessons of history. 
We have become intellectual refugees taking refuge in formulae instead of doing proper analysis both of society and industry and all that goes with them. It is not an accident that Australia faces the same problems as France, Britain, West Germany, United States of America and Canada. It is not an accident. It is one of the products of the last 30 years. For centuries Europeans have spent their time destroying their cities and destroying themselves. The world has been torn with war twice in my lifetime. In the last 30 years, although there have been enormous troubles in the world, there have been no great constructive exercises on a global scale. It would probably be fruitful for some of the people to visit Europe just to take a look at Eprave, Berlin and Warsaw, places which were destroyed 30 years ago and have been completely rebuilt. The productive capacity, the ingenuity and all the things that went into rebuilding them are now faced with no work. In this country there are enormous things still to be done but the fact is that it will only be government enterprise that will do most of them. So all the formulae that we hear about so continuously, the argument about deficits, the argument about interest rates, the sudden interest in consumer psychology and this talk about the economic situation, are not going to solve anything. I think that the theoretical base upon which we face up to these problems is incorrectly centred. It is money centred. We hear continuously of the cash flow, the volume of money and all the other factors that go to make up the economic environment. In my view we should be looking more particularly and more carefully at a resource centred view of the economy. We should be asking: What are the resources? Where are they? How do we put them to work? What is the machinery needed to do this? In many areas it has been the financial machinery of the banking system that has kept people employed. 
When we look at the situation we see that the private citizens have most of the things that they want. Let me say in parenthesis that probably the big deficiency in Australia is still a proper and appropriate housing policy. My colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  a former Minister for Housing and Construction, used to tell me that 400 000 new or rehabilitated houses were needed in Australia; that every year the demand is about 160 000 or 170 000; and that the Australian industry can produce, perhaps, 180 000 houses a year. But housing is one of the first victims of every cold economic wind. The Government reduces the amount of money available, puts up interest rates or does something else to inhibit it. 
We face a mathematical and social and economic challenge. Australia has some 13.S million people, of whom 5.6 million or thereabouts work. They have to look after all the rest. There are people who would include us, the politicians, in all the rest- except for my friend the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who has just come into the House. He is a member of the toiling masses. He has contributed a great deal to the advantage of this country. I hope that the people in power at the moment do not reverse that trend. There are a couple of million people in retirement. There are probably 3 million people doing household work. There are another 3 million people who are not yet in the work force. We have an economy second to none in capacity to handle the situation; but so far we have not found the wit or the wisdom to do that. I suspect that honourable members on the Government side have not the will to try to do it. One of the odd beliefs that flow from the past is that if a person is out of work it is his own fault; unemployment is a peculiar state of sin which is inflicted upon a person who did not pick the right parents. 
What was the state of the economy under the Labor Government? We have been berated about it continually. First of all, the lot of the people improved. Average weekly earnings went up quite a deal. My friends on the Government side would say that they went out through the roof and rose astronomically. But I happen to represent many people who were beneficiaries of the Labor Government. In about last December I did some arithmetic to see what the increase in the average weekly earnings meant to them in comparison to their situation 3 years before. I will mention a few figures. In 1972 a person could buy 170 lb of butter with the average weekly earnings, but in 1975 210 lb could be purchased. In 1972 a person could buy 372 loaves of bread with that amount, but by 1 975 that had risen to 420 loaves. This happened right down the line- in respect of tea, lamb, rump steak and bricks. For honourable members who are interested in such things, I point out that in 1972 7.5 weeks work was required to pay for a return air fare to London, but by the end of last year only 6.1 weeks work was required. Consideration of the air fare to Perth might be more in our line. A person had to add $9 to the average weekly earnings in 1972 in order to go to Perth, but by the time we had finished in government one could get $5 change from the average weekly earnings. I suppose that most Australians could do this sort of homework by looking at the household accounts, but unfortunately they were talked out of doing it. 
There were other areas of strength in the economy. Like everybody else in this House, despite what some honourable members say on occasions, I regret the unemployment situation. I believe that we just have to apply ourselves to the job of seeing that everybody is satisfactorily and gainfully employed if he wishes to be. The export-import ratio was in a better situation in Australia than in most other countries. Our overseas balances were higher than those of most other countries. One of the enormous changes which took place under Labor and which our friends opposite are going to do their best to reverse was the shift of wealth towards the private citizen. Wages and salaries, as a proportion of the gross domestic product, went up by 5 per cent or 6 per cent and, of course, profits fell by something of the equivalent order. Apparently that is sinful, according to honourable members opposite. Many people have been talked into taking the view that theoretically that is bad. I think that household savings in proportion to the total national savings doubled. This placed the wealth in the hands of the people who need it. Any reversal of that situation can only reduce consumer spending. 
What about the last Budget? We produced 3 Budgets. The 1973 Budget established a new environment for so many things- education, health services, Aboriginal advancement and all the rest. The 1974 Budget held the ground. The 1975 Budget was designed to balance everything out as well as we could with the apparatus at our disposal. The apparatus at our disposal to control the economy is meagre indeed. Some of this balancing has to be done as a matter of judgment and some of it by means of simple government action, hoping that it turns out well. We are accused, of course, of extraordinary extravagance because there is a deficit. Total expenditure in the last Budget was about $22,000m. 
Let us break that sum up into 3 parts. Firstly, the Australian Government expended $ 13,600m on its services and the States $8,300m. I think anticipated receipts were somewhere between $ 18,000m and $ 19,000m; so there was adequate money to meet the running expenses of the Aus.tralian Government and the State governments. But, of course, there is a huge amount of capital works, which take up about $ 1,000m in the case of the Australian Government and about $3,000m in the case of the States. One of the oddities of our statistical base is that no one can say how much of the States' money goes into capital works. Most Budgets are much less precise and informative documents than ours, and information is buried in them. One cannot necessarily tell, for instance, how many schools are built with money spent on education. In the last Budget something between $4,000m and $5,000m was for capital expenditure; that is, the creation of assets for the future. Those assets are important to every one of us. 
How on earth can people call that kind of thing a deficit? Is it not possible to create a new word? The word 'deficit' is a misnomer. Perhaps we should produce our Budgets in 3 parts, with one of them called the investment account. How could 20 000 government homes be part of a deficit? How could a million bales of wool- I am not sure how many we bought out of the last Budget- a new water storage system or 50 or 1 50 schools be part of a deficit? If we are not careful we will talk ourselves out of progress by thinking of the deficit in the same terms as we would think of a loss situation if we were conducting a corner shop or if we were getting $20,000 in income and spending $22,000 on our current account. Occasionally one gets into that situation in domestic life. 
That is right. If the honourable member had an income of $20,000 in a year and bought a $50,000 house that year he would not write that transaction into his household accounts at the end of the year as a $30,000 deficit. Of course, he would not. He would have created capital for the future. Therefore, we have to take a very close look at the way we go about these things. 
There are a number of points that one wants to make on an occasion such as this. For the last 8 or 9 months- in fact, for almost the last 2 years, but certainly since early last year- there has been the most vigorous assault possible upon the idea of government expenditure. What does government expenditure mean to every one of us? In the Australian community, in social and economic affairs government expenditure is the key to progress in nearly everything. First of all, there are the ordinary welfare payments, which took up about $6,000m in the last Budget. Then there are the socially oriented enterprises, such as health, education and general welfare. Does any honourable member deny that those things should not be carried out? As I pointed out earlier, those things are easily carried out on the current account inside the tax collections. But what about the rest of these things? In Australia and, I presume in other countries too- we know our own country best I expect- the communications base supplied by government expenditure is fundamental to Australian industry. How long would Australian society and industry carry on if the Post Office stopped work totally for even one hour; if for one hour throughout Australia no telephone rang? 
Some of my friends here think that would be a good thing; it would leave us alone. But Australia would come to a standstill. We had a dramatic instance of that when the system of communications to Darwin was blown out by Cyclone Tracy and we had the almost impossible task of finding out what had happened. In this country almost all transport is based upon government expenditure, government capital works, government initiative. Nobody else is going to do it. My friend the Prime Minister can plead as much as he likes to all his friends, rich and poor, to go out and spend, but there is not one of them who can build another railway line; and it is pretty pointless building trams. Not many of them are going to start building ships, and the same applies to road, rail, sea and air. The supplies for the power base for a lot of industry- electricity, gas and coalthroughout a good deal of Australia are in government hands. The same applies to banking and insurance. 
One wonders how we got into this state of mind whereby a document entitled  Statement of Savings Expected in Annual Appropriations made by a number of Acts- is  tabled in this Parliament. I do not know what the honourable gentleman and his colleagues mean by that. Is there anybody who would call this saving? The adult migrant education program was cut by $419,000; the child migrant education program was cut by nearly $lm, and the Aboriginal advancement program reduced by $3.7m. What kind of philosophy is that? How insensitive can the Government be when it calls a reduction in those fields of endeavour 'savings'. 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Health, refers to the mangling of Medibank. Will staff currently employed by the Health Insurance Commission have to remain at present levels, or more probably increase, to cope with the administrative burdens of recording each person's health insurance status, administering a cumbersome premium scheme and running both the present and proposed arrangements until the end of the year? Will the private funds have to increase staff to cope with their increased work load? Will the Department of Health have to administer some of the new scheme? As these are probabilities, how can the Government claim to be making savings - 
I second the motion. I want to add, with all the vigour at my disposal, the full support of myself and my Party and, I would suspect, of the Parliament, to the motion that is before the House. We speak to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  not to bury him but to fortify his resolution. This is a call to the Government and the Parliament to exercise the power conferred upon them by the referendum in 1967 with unrelenting vigour and persistence. This is no time for federalism; it is time for the exercise of the constitutional power that devolves upon us. It is a depressing fact that in Aboriginal affairs there are no bygones in Australian history; it will all happen again. We have the case of Yirrkala 1963, the rape of Weipa, the failure of so much of the aspects of the developments at Groote and now Aurukun. I am reminded of a debate that took place here in 1963 in which my colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and myself spoke. We were speaking then for the people of Yirrkala. This is what I said: 
We speak here for an isolated, defenceless group of people at the far end of Australia. As the honourable member for Fremantle has said, so far as Asia is concerned they are some of the most significant Australians. They are the closest Australians to Asia. They are black ... 
That was 13 years ago, and here we have this situation again. But fortunately, as far as I can tell from the statements made by the Minister and the actions of the Government we speak perhaps with one voice. We might give different emphases to various aspects of the matter, but this afternoon there is a chance for a declaration by this Parliament to the. Parliament of Queensland and Queensland's Premier that they have gone too far. 
A little piece of history is perhaps appropriate because it seems to me that the Yirrkala situation of 1963 is the perfect analogy. On that occasion mining explorations were taking place. The Aboriginal people were not all too much aware of what was happening. There were suggestions that there had been inadequate consultation. I belong to an organisation called the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. I was its vice-president. At a conference here that year the matter was raised. We received a telegram from the missionary at Yirrkala, Reverend Wells, whom my friend the honourable member for Fremantle quoted. My colleague from Fremantle and I went to Yirrkala. My colleague pointed out to the people that they could petition this Parliament, and that they did. In the interim I had taken a court case out in Darwin as a result of an advertisement in the newspaper there. I had lodged objections to mineral and mining development. We eventually appointed a committee of this Parliament to examine the matter. Things have changed a bit. They tried to remove me from that Committee. The  Speaker  took me into his room and said that I ought not to be on the Committee because I had a personal interest in the matter. However, the Committee proceeded and it produced its report. We recommended various things. But there is a depressing sameness about what is going to happen here because the intervention of State rights and all the rest of it prevents us from acting so effectively in northern Queensland unless we choose to take the necessary action to use the power conferred upon us at the referendum. One of the companies involved then and now is Pechiney, a French company. It is one of the biggest companies in the world and most technologically advanced. The material it is seeking is the same- bauxite. The people involved this time are much the same. They are remote. They are much the same as they ever were. What were the lessons of 1963 and the following years? First of all was the immense difficulty of consultation. My colleague from Fremantle pointed out what the Queensland Parliamentary Commissioner for Administrative Investigations had to say as recently as 6 April. He said: 
Each of the six tribes has its own tongue, but they have adopted a common language . . . English is also widely spoken and, to my ear, is not difficult to understand. 
A few  Aurukuns  are succinct in conversation. Others, for want of fluency in English, express their thoughts in a round about fashion which initially may sound contradictory, but as they continue to speak their point emerges. 
Aurukuns  are largely suspicious of the printed word, and an Act of Parliament is no exception. 
The lesson we learnt 13 years ago was that, with the best will in the world, the average departmental officer was unable to get through to the Aboriginal people what it was all about. We sat around the table and talked to these intelligent, self-contained young men and old men about what the proposal meant. They were really not conscious of money. There was no point talking about $30,000 or $3m to a person who had never held more than $3 or $4 in his hand. It was almost impossible for them to understand what was going to happen to their land, which was described by my colleague as a moonscape. 
We faced enormous difficulties of communication and understanding. By nature these people are courteous to one another. They do not concur with white people because they are afraid of them; they concur because that is the normal way in which they deal with one another. We have a long history of confrontation as our mode of human behaviour. In this House matters are batted backwards and forwards. In parliamentary debates and other debates one person speaks for a proposition, one speaks against and then the question is put. In the community we talk about a competitive spirit. I do not like to bring political issues into this debate but honourable members opposite are the principal advocates of the great mystique of the competitive spirit. The Aboriginal people of course do not understand that kind of thing and therefore it is hard for us to talk to them about these issues. 
What do we know about the impact of mining on Aboriginal communities? We know nothing. We know little enough about the social difficulties in our own suburbs. Numbers of people from overseas have poured into the area I represent. We have not yet been able to solve their problems. What chance is there for the Aboriginal people if we plant beside them on their land another and totally different development? What will happen? First of all we were told by the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement- like my colleague I am a bit depressed when I read the report of that debate- that a new town will be built about 12 kilometres or 15 kilometres away from the mission. That is exactly what happened on the Gove peninsular. There will be a new town with a totally different set of standards, big schools, a big hospital, paved streets and I have no doubt that there will be some hotel facilities otherwise only a handful of people, like some of us in this House, will be prepared to go and work there. What will that do to the community? 
The report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs published in 1964 refers to the serious problems of alcohol that are created. The report said: 
A serious social problem facing the people of Yirrkala is the excessive consumption of alcohol. 
Although the Commonwealth has had absolute authority in the Northern Territory there have been great difficulties in the field of health. The Committee 's report said: 
One of the most serious findings of the Committee in this inquiry was the lamentable state of public health at Yirrkala among young children . . . Probably the worst of these is poor nutrition and that this should be so prevalent in a fertile environment is most alarming. 
How do we train Aboriginal people to take advantage of the opportunities for employment that it is alleged will be created? We do not know the answer to that. It would take years. Even with all the warnings of history of the impact of such proposals on other communities around the world, we did little enough about it at Yirrkala. 
The debate here today is about the land and its people. I understand that last night the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs issued a statement about the acceptance of the general principles of land rights for Aborigines. That is a big step. We did not have any doubt that the Government would do this. But how do we communicate this decision to the rest of the community? How do we convert the members of the Queensland Parliament, particularly the Premier and his colleagues? This has been a long struggle. Over 200 years ago George III, not a notable revolutionary, made an announcement about the Indians. His instructions to Governor Phillip were cited here this morning. The referendum in 1967- that is not very long ago- gave a clear mandate to this Parliament that when such issues are at stake the Australian Government must act regardless of any views of federalism, State rights or anything else. The rights of the Aboriginal people transcend anything else in this arena. 
Unfortunately we are up against what may be called the unholy trinity- overseas investment, mining development and, implied though not said so loudly in the debate in the Queensland Parliament, the assimilation of the Aboriginal people. The word 'assimilation' has genocidal overtones. The Queensland Government has chosen to override the people of Aurukun as it would override anybody else. The companies involved in the mining development are some of the greatest in the world- Billiton Aluminium Australia B.V., which I understand is a subsidiary of the Shell Co.; Pechiney Aluminium Australia Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of the great French company; and the Tipperary Corporation. They have even had the hide to call themselves Aurukun Associates. Is there no stone that they are prepared to leave unturned in order to submerge the Aboriginal people? 
Today we are facing a challenge to this Parliament to take action which it has not taken before. As I understand it, it is clear that the Australian Government could take over, purchase or acquire the land. It could test its arm on it. I am certain that its arm has that kind of strength. The Government ought to do that. It could then maintain the  status quo  until the social problems were resolved. What advantage is there in turning the Aurukun area into another piece of the Australian quarry? I am not for overseas investment, I am not against overseas investment; but I am in favour of placing the needs of the people involved before all other issues. The success of our efforts in this cause so far has been meagre. Today we are talking about the betrayal by the Queensland Government of the general consensus that has developed in this Parliament and throughout the community concerning the rights of the Aboriginal people and their land. I know that there are some philosophical difficulties for all of us. None of us owns the minerals in our land. They are the property of the state. But it will not do any harm to start taking a few steps against the tide of history. 
I hope that the Minister will have time to say a few words in this debate. We on this side of the House have been deeply involved in this matter for many years. My colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  wanted to speak but he may be deprived of the opportunity. He took over the portfolio of Minister for Aboriginal Affairs after others of us had handed it on. He was involved with the question of land rights and the protection of the Aboriginal people. I say emphatically to the Minister that what we want now is unrelenting vigour on his part. If any political issues crop up he need not think that he will be the victim of them. Our colleagues in Queensland who happen to belong to an opposing political party are the villains in this matter and they will be made to face the music. 
-(11.50)-Unlike the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  who was ungracious enough to say that he had the misfortune to follow in this debate the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  I am gratified to be following a man who has had such distinguished political service. It is a terrible pity, however, that so much of his service was in such grievious error. I listened to his speech and I will take a few moments to deal with some of the things he said. He has fallen into the error of all of our opponents who replace analysis and logic in the consideration of the economy with vituperation. They seem to think that if they keep announcing things long enough people will believe them in the end and things will change. They have adopted the old trick of the Nazi regime in Germany, that if you speak up long enough and loud enough people will believe you in the end and change the way that events go. It is utter nonsense to continually denounce the Labor Goverment's economic policies as being irresponsible, and all the other things that were said about them. The right honourable gentleman and his colleagues opposite inherited one of the strongest economies in the world and now they are trying to turn it back. 
The right honourable member for Lowe indicated a fair amount of the thinking of honourable members opposite. They think they are going to turn the tide of history by tinkering with the tax system. What is the situation? It is that 1976 is totally different from 1966 and even more different from 1956. When I listened to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the string of former Prime Ministers talking I was reminded of the people who in 1492 did not believe that Columbus had reached the new world. In fact Columbus himself did not think he had arrived at the new world of America. He thought he was still in the old world. That is one of the great problems of honourable members opposite. 
There was one thing that the right honourable member for Lowe said about the deficit and that situation that I should mention. I pay him the compliment of dealing with some of his statements. He said that we needed common sense. Unfortunately we get none of that from the people opposite. He talked about the industrial base and of the troubles of the industrial world, particularly the metal trades industry. He said that unfortunately industry was running at under capacity. He presumes that by tinkering with the tax system in some way, by some sort of plea to the system, people will rush out and buy another 6 refrigerators or perhaps double their stocks of Rolls Royces, Mercedes or even Fords. We are in a totally different society. We were in a consumer society because for many years we had been deprived. For some five or six years 30 years ago the world was bent upon destruction. One of the facts of life in most of the industrial countries of the world is that they have overtaken their general running needs with their industrial capacity. Therefore Australian industry now runs at about 80 per cent. Unless we change the system of using up goods our industry will continue to run at about 80 per cent. 
Consider the nonsense of it all. We are talking about a consumer-led recovery and the Supply Bills that we are now debating will reduce the capacity to consume of the biggest customers, the biggest consumers in the business, the governments and public authorities in Australia. It always seems to me to be odd that in a world such as this, in a country such as this, parliaments and governments are unable to recognise the importance of the government as a consumer, as an activator, and as a creator in this society. I am not talking in terms of Keynesian economics; I am talking about Australian society as it has developed over the century or so of responsible government. Governments are the suppliers and the providers of so much upon which we all depend. 
I would like to make one other point before I deal with some of the general issues. I refer to the very existence of these Supply Bills. I believe it is a rather eccentric piece of governmental behaviour that twice a year we have to produce appropriations to deal with the need for more money not properly appropriated in the Budget. The whole Budget system I think is tired. I think it is time that the whole Budget system was reviewed, including the way in which the other House deals with Estimates, the way in which this House deals with Estimates and the way in which Budgets are produced. If it were not for the obsession about governmental arithmetic Budgets could make a proper allowance for the whole 12 months and perhaps we could even overrun that period. Nobody in the system can plan effectively if they know that somewhere along the line- within 9 months on average, I supposethey will run out of their general appropriation and are not sure that they will receive funds again at the same rate. 
I administered the Department of the Capital Territory for 2 years. I pay a tribute to the people who worked in that system. There is no doubt in my mind that the whole structure and efficiency of the operation was inhibited by the fact that at some stage about this time of the year problems will occur in regard to cash flow and the security of programs which will prevent a department carrying on properly. I make a plea to the Parliament itself, to the Expenditure Committee which has been established and any other bodies that are associated with this matter to overcome that problem. The Supply Bills, of course, are the twice annual exercise in which the Senate can probably sabotage the whole system, as it threatened to do and in fact did do to us at least on one occasion. I think it is time that the people of Australia recognised the shattering intellectual ineptitude of the Prime Minister and his followers. We are living in a world of economics in which we get continual assertions without analysis. What do we read in  Hansard?  What do we hear pouring out over the air? We see and hear continual statements and reports that will not stand up to any kind of analysis. The Prime Minister says things like this: Spending our way gently but firmly out of stagnation. One can turn back the pages of recent years and find that those sorts of things have been said continually. 
The right honourable member for Lowe talked about areas of the economy being bankrupt- I think that is what he said. What exactly did he mean? Most of the areas of the economy are capable of expansion but there is nobody in many of the areas to whom to sell the products. Let us look at the economy. I think we are the world's biggest producer of bauxite. We are the ninth or tenth largest producer of motor cars. I have some figures here which I found the other day relating to Australia's position in mineral production. For instance, in bauxite we are first; in lead we are third or fourth; in nickel we are fourth or fifth; and even in salt we are seventh or eighth in world production- all this when we are about fortieth in line on world population figures. 
We face a great challenge to develop the resources we have. We are showing a remarkable incapacity to use the resources that we have at our disposal. When I hear the continual catchcries from the people opposite I am staggered that the people of Australia believe them or voted for them. We know about the deficit fixation. Fortunately the right honourable member for Lowe seems to hold a different view from that of many of the people opposite, who like lemmings will follow their leaders over the cliff into economic disaster by removing the Australian Government, its authorities and the State governments who rely upon it for cash, from the consumer scene. I refer honourable members to an article in the  Australian Economic Review No. 3, 1975.  I will not read it all because my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide mentioned the same thing. It is produced by the 
Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research and reads: 
Growing Budget Deficits- An International Problem. It is not often realised that a swollen Budget deficit is a phenomenon which Australia shares with most of the major industrial countries. 
The report goes on to state such things as: 
The United States administration's projection envisages a deficit of US$59.3 billion or 19 per cent of receipts in fiscal 1976. That this latter figure is too optimistic is strongly suggested by the fact that in seasonally adjusted terms the deficit reached 41.8 per cent of receipts in the second quarter of 1975. 
I think my friend from Lowe was telling us that the inflation rate is falling in the U.S.A. Germany is another example that is cited of where the inflation rate is falling. The report states: 
In the first half of 1975 the West German Federal government cash position showed a deficit of DM 17 billion (30 per cent of receipts) ... the United Kingdom the central government borrowing requirement reached £5.1 billion . . . (17 percent of receipts). 
Later in the year Australia's level was running at 22 per cent of receipts. The report continues: 
The Australian government budget, now set at about $3,800 million or about 21 per cent of estimated receipts, seems rather less overwhelming. 
The report further states that in each of the countries mentioned: . . . deficits of the broad magnitude currently envisaged for Australia are proving compatible with a reduction in inflation. 
In other words, we are looking for a pot of gold at the foot of the rainbow and like the people in the legends we will not find it because one will not find any solution in that sort of nostrum. All the evidence is that there is no necessary relationship between the absolute size of the deficit and the inflation rate. 
There are other factors creating inflation of which we seem to be totally unaware. For instance, there is never any adequate examination of what government costs do. For instance, what will happen to the consumer price index for the Australian Capital Territory when the impact of all the charges that have been loaded upon it over the last few months is really taken into account? How much will those increase charges raise the cost of living and the cost of being here when the actual price of land has been increased as it was by my successor but one's predecessor? What will happen because of the rise in interest rates on the housing of the 8000 or 12 000 people who have interest bearing loans from the Australian Government? These will rise from the 4 per cent or 5 per cent rate at which they were held to 9 per cent or 10 per cent. I presume that there is no absolute level. What will that do to the person with a $10,000 loan? Of course it will raise his cost of living by $8 or $9 a week. This was an unqualified, unreservedly Government sponsored decision. We know nothing about that aspect. There has been no effective studies done upon the effect, say, of increases in telephone charges. I noticed that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his second reading speeches on the Supply Bills mentioned the cost rise to the Government because of the increase in postal charges. I think he said it was $43m. When we took the decision which was taken by the Government of which I was a member, and which had been initiated away back, perhaps 12 or 15 years ago, about how we should finance the Post Office, one of the factors which was not considered was the impact of that upon the greatest consumer of telephone and telegraphic services in Australia, the Australian Government and its authorities. 
When we talk about incentives to the private sector we have another assertion which is based upon some sort of false analysis- as though people will rush out and do things just because we plead with them to do so. I agree with my friend from Adelaide who pointed out that this Government is pursuing a totally erroneous policy and that if we extract the Australian Government from so many areas of consuming- and therefore of spending- in which other people are involved we will be heading for a high level of unemployment. Everybody recognises that that is a social disaster. I know that we have made inflation the great thing at the present time, but I also know that the people with whom I associate, the people I represent, regard unemployment as the greatest possible social disaster. I think that it is a social disaster of the first magnitude that so many thousands of young people in the 18 years to 23 years age group cannot find adequate full time employment. I am one of those who in 1932 left school and had no adequate or full time employment for 3 years and I know what it does to a person. We cannot tolerate that. It will be only by Government action over many areas that we will be able to overcome the situation. 
I think that the challenge of today is how we are to tap the resources at our disposal. As I have pointed out, we have an industrial capacity that is capable of out-producing Australia's ordinary needs. We have mineral deposits and a minerals industry that put us at the top of the world league. Our mineral wealth has produced a situation in which our international reserves are consistently rising. When I look at the figures I find that in large areas of ordinary endeavour most people are better off than they have ever been. One of the great revolutions that flowed from the 3 years of Labor Government was the transfer of wealth from corporations to private citizens. The percentage of the gross domestic product that went into salaries and wages rose significantly and, of course, in large areas profits fell by an equal percentage. I am one of those who do not believe that profit is a dirty word. But I am also one of those who believe that the people who produce the wealth should get their fair share of it. 
When I look at the figures I also find that in relation to gross savings by the country there has been a big transfer from the business and corporations area to the household area. The gross savings in the last few years in what is called the household savings area have gone from 25 per cent to 50 per cent. What does that mean? One has only to look at the newspapers to see what it means. The savings bank deposits in Australia are at an extraordinarily high level. Wages in Australia are now, I understand, the world's highest. People are able to do many of the things that they could never do before. There has been an extraordinary rise in the amount of overseas travel. Why? Because people are able to do in 1976 as a result of what happened between 1972 and 1975 the things that they never dreamed they would be able to do. There has been the biggest swing over to colour television in any country in the world. Why? Because the money is in the pockets of the people. That is a revolution in Australia's living standards and values that I propose to do everything in my power to protect. 
I have mentioned that I thought that the great challenge that faces us and to which the Government has no answer- I am not saying that we do, either- is the tapping of the resources that are available to us. We have to find out how to fit the financial capacity that we have and the industrial capacity that we have into the areas of need. I represent the suburbs of Brunswick and Coburg in Melbourne, a great industrial area. The needs of the people there are for roads, schools, houses and so on. When I talk to the industrialists most of them say. 'We do not need to re-equip. We have re-equipped over the last 10 years. We can now turn out beer cans by the million, we can turn out photographic equipment by the ton, we can manufacture motor vehicle tyres by the hundred-thousand and we can turn out items of hoisery by the million'. But when I go down the streets- they are not the sort of streets that ought to be found in one of the wealthiest countries in the world- I see that the houses need rehabilitation. I suppose a third of the hourses in Brunswick are obsolescent to the point of being obsolete. So we should be putting money into the hands of those people. Any interference with their standard of living will reduce their capacity to do anything about their present situation. 
We should be able to find some way of tapping the extraordinary capital resources in the hands of people in the same way as is done with their income. I do not know what the technique is, but there is some error or some weakness somewhere in our technical capacity. We show no hesitancy whatsoever in tapping income to the absolute limit. I am one of those people who think taxation upon income is becoming inhibitive. It is starting to make people think. It is unjust or inequitable. We are in a new arena. I think it is a totally new world. The productive capacity is immense. People's buying and consuming habits are changing. The community has a different area of approach to so many things, but the greatest needs m Australia are those things supplied by governments- communication, transport, housing finance, roads, railways and all the rest. They are as important to our standard of living as the carpets upon the floor. These Supply Bills are a clear indication that the Government has no idea whatsoever what it is all about. 
-MY question is  to  the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Australian Government recognise the Government of Portugal or the Government of Indonesia as the legal administering authority in East Timor and its territorial waters? 
-I ask for leave of the House to present the report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Austria, Belgium, the European Communities, the European Parliament, Council of Europe, Federal Republic of Germany, Poland and the German Democratic Republic, between 9 and 28 June 1975. 
-When one listens to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  one gets the feeling that  Blue 

 Hills, having been discontinued on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio stations, has moved to Alice Springs. It is the same old story  ad nauseam:  They are spending money on the Aboriginal people. Mind you, the honourable member is not against it, but he complains that one particular lot should not get it or that they are wasting it; some of them might e ven buy food with it; it might even be used for providing shelter for them. 
Perhaps we might go over a little of the history for the honourable member. There are a number of honourable members in this place who do not happen to live under spinifex bushes but who do happen to have wandered around Australia and looked very closely at the country and talked to people very closely. I was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs from the inception of the Labor Government in 1972. Until the introduction of the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill which is before the House we have had pretty much a bipartisan policy. But none of us on this side of the House can listen to the denunciation of the programs introduced in the last 3 or 4 years, or see the consequent reduction in expenditure in Aboriginal Affairs which flows from this Bill, and let it pass unnoticed. Honourable members opposite talk about our disastrous programs. Occasionally they mention that so many houses have cost so much more money than they should have. Very rarely does one hear about a specific case; very rarely do they say in the House that a particular project was not necessary, that the money was all wasted. Very rarely do we find projects in relation to which one can say that. Of course there will be differences of opinion about what you should do and what you ought not to do. Of course value judgments are going to be made; sometimes they will not bring home the results that one wants. But extraordinary difficulties obtained when we entered into government. There was no operational department working; a section of a department handled Aboriginal affairs. In his 1974 report the Auditor-General -had this to say: 
The inescapable conclusion is that from the outset the Department failed to  oganise  itself so as to control the expenditure of large amounts of public moneys according to the tenets traditionally  aplicable.  It is also apparent that the Department, while admittedly burdened with new initiatives which occupied the attention and energies of what it claims to be its inadequate, and in many cases, inexperienced staff, failed to take early and resolute action . . . 
One of the great problems that will face any government when it attempts to take new initiatives in this country is the total inadequacy of the Public Service system to take up the challenge of creating new departments and new positions. It was one of the facts of life, unfortunately, that it took nearly 18 months to get people after the initiatives had been taken to create the positions. It was one of the oddities of Australian administration that within a few weeks of the Labor Government coming into office in December 1972 we were able to open an embassy in Peking but that it took 18 months or more to open an Aboriginal Affairs office in Brisbane. That is just one of the deficiencies of the Public Service system. I have no quarrel with the public servants, or with many of the aspects of the Public Service system, but the facts are that it is too inflexible when faced with new challenges. I hope that the various reports that are brought down by the various commissions will change that system. It affects my friends as it affected us. 
I personally was well aware of the situation in relation to Aboriginal affairs. I knew that some portion of the grants that were made to organisations throughout the country might well be spent in a wasteful manner. I insisted from the very beginning that we pay our grants in small sums. We established an appropriate supervisory system. That took, I suppose, the best part of 2 years to implement. I know that my successor in office did say that our programs were a disaster. I challenge him to prove it also. I have listened to that criticism for long enough. I have waited for 3 years for the opportunity to stand up here and say- I am saying it quite emphatically now- that I deny the charges that have been laid against the former Government and its officers. I suggest to honourable members opposite - 
I will talk about turtles in a moment too if that is what the honourable member wants. The facts are that hundreds of projects were embarked upon throughout Australia. Most of them were adequately serviced and adequately administered; some of them, of course, were not. Most of them were pursued to such an extent that errors of that sort were overcome. It became part of the theme, the mystique, of parliamentary debates to talk about the continual expenditure and wastage in these areas, as was the case in relation to everything else. Again and again one asks: Whereabouts has this occurred? Not too often does one come across specific instances. Honourable members can read the report of the Auditor-General which bears me out on that point. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory says that we were going too fast. I wonder whether the newer members in this Parliament have taken the trouble to assess what the situation is. It is true, of course, that we produced a feeling of expectancy among the Aboriginal people; and why not? In this country, which is one of the wealthiest countries in the world, one per cent of the population is living in the most miserable possible surroundings, and honourable members opposite know that full well. If voices had not been raised by honourable members on this side of the House, honourable members opposite would have remained silent continually in this place about Aboriginal affairs. I have watched honourable members opposite. I have listened to the honourable member for the Northern Territory complain that we are wasting money on the salaries of the people on the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. He has suggested that they do not do their job. What use has he been to the people of the Northern Territory? He has supported every mischievous and malevolent policy of his Government during all the years he has been a member of this House. When he stands at the pearly gates and is asked what he did with his stewardship, what will he say? He will say: 'I continually denounced the programs that were helping one-third of my constituents'. The same can be said of most Government supporters. 
I see the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  sitting opposite. When the Labor Government launched a program to establish a hostel in his electorate he called a public meeting outside the hostel on a Saturday morning to stir the citizens to try to have the project stopped. I went there and addressed the people. They were good, solid and- to use a term in vogue in these days- articulate, middle-class people. They were the sort of people who get elected on Liberal tickets all around Australia. They hooted and booed. They comprised a group of the finest racists that could be found this side of Cape Town. They were all sponsored, helped and kicked along by the honourable member for Griffith. Fortunately that program has been successful and the honourable member will admit it. 
The Aboriginal people of Australia are still in great need. This year it is proposed to spend about $190m on them. But what is that amount when spread over 1 IS 000 people scattered across the continent in 400 different communities? Their needs range right across the board. I instance employment. My friend, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  cited statistics. We know that at least 10 000 Aborigines are unemployed. They are located in impossible places. What can be done with those who live at Papunya, which I have visited, or at Yuendumu? 
Perhaps some honourable members do not know where the latter is situated. It is hundreds of miles out in the centre of Australia- perhaps 140 or 150 miles from Alice Springs. If these people are shifted, they are destroyed socially and psychologically. If they are not shifted, what can be done for them in a place like that? Perhaps factories of some sort might be started to provide them with some employment. But their living conditions are dreadful. Such conditions should not exist on this continent. We appreciate the sheer physical difficulties of overcoming the problem. But people in such localities are entitled to enjoy the advantages of living on this continent and being part of this nation as are the rest of us. The fact that we cannot resolve the social problems at Papunya is no disgrace to anybody. 
I represent an electorate in which there are concentrations of migrant people. We have not resolved the problems of suburbia nor the problems involved with the relationship of new migrants in our communities. Even in the suburbs of Canberra social questions arise to which we cannot find answers. However, there is little excuse for not overcoming some of the physical disabilities that occur in some areas. I do not know the answer with respect to employment in such remote areas. People like me would be prepared to spend money to investigate and to experiment and to come under attack. I would not mind that so much and most honourable members would feel the same. 
Health presents another problem. I invite honourable members to examine health statistics to determine whether money is being wasted and whether we should reduce our expenditure on Aboriginal affairs. The question of housing is enormously difficult to answer. We are not even sure what sort of housing should be provided in the outer areas for tribal people. I think it is sad that the architects panel, even if it has on occasions been a little way out with its approach, is probably having its life determined at this moment. The Labor Government was not the first to encounter difficulties with Aboriginal housing. I visited Roper River, I think it was, and found lying on the ground about 15 prefabricated houses which had been transported there. Those houses were feeding the white ants. The previous coalition government in this instance had encountered the same problems. How can we get consistent performance out of people who work in the Public Service hundreds of miles from the areas with which they are concerned? How do we break down traditional procedures which stop effective administrative action being taken to overcome deficiencies when people run out of simple things like nails? I suggest that honourable members might take a close look at the administrative systems with which this country is beset. 
Recently I have noticed attacks on the Redfern housing project in Sydney. It may be that had the job been given to developers they could have pulled the houses down and done something more rapidly and effectively with the area, but the Redfern housing project was a piece of social therapy. I had been Minister for only a few days when I went to Sydney and discussed this project with the people concerned. They put a proposal to me. I do not have my records with me but about 41 houses were bought for about $10,000 each. I wonder what would be their capital value today? The people have been working on this project for 3 years rehabilitating the houses. It is true that other people could have been employed to do the job quicker. Money might have been saved and it might not but it ill becomes honourable members to talk about the cost of housing in these times when it is expensive to do even the smallest job in their own homes. 
Education is another problem right across the board. Aboriginal communities have an immense number of needs. The Labor Government set out to overcome the problems. This, of course, meant the expenditure of money. Most of the Ministers in our Government knew what a shortage of money meant, personally and nationally. None of us set out to spend money as if it were going out of fashion. That suggestion has been one of the consistent libels levelled against our Administration during its 3 years in office. It is true that there will be differences of opinion about the abolition of university fees or the abolition of the means test for age pensions but this is mainly because the person expressing an opinion is not personally worried about such matters. 
I suggest that he should be more specific about what he is writing. Education and Aboriginal affairs were under constant attack when the Labor Government was in office. It would be incorrect to say that we had absolute support in Cabinet and in Caucus. At most times we did have such support for the initiatives we took. We lifted expenditure on Aboriginal Affairs from $61m to $98m to $ 158m to $192m. But what does that money represent? How many destroyers would it have bought? I suggest that before honourable members start being too critical of Aboriginal programs they should consider the basis of their constant attack. I do not say this about the honourable member for the Northern Territory but much criticism is based on a racist approach which says: 'Look at them getting all that money'. I have talked to people in the Northern Territory about this attitude. I have sat around the table with them. They said: 'Look at the Government wasting all that money on them'. I said to one person responsible for such comments: 'Cut it out, Bill. How many millions did that beef road out to your property cost?' There are not too many people in Australia who do not get subsidised for their operations at some stage of the game. Criticism is also based on ignorance. Who knows about Papunya, Yuendumu, Yarrabah or Wiluna? I think the reduction in expenditure on Aboriginal affairs comes ill at this time. On Tuesday last the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in discussing the world situation, said: 
Finally, the appalling widespread problems of poverty, hunger and disease are not only an affront to human dignity, but constantly threaten discord and conflict between nations. 
I suggest that his remarks apply also within nations. He also said: 
The developed countries are regrettably more interested in trade between themselves than they are in facilitating the progress of nations poorer than themselves. 
That is vintage Fraser. He should look around this country as well before he starts reducing programs for Aborigines. 
I do. The right honourable gentleman said that about distant problems but today we are discussing a program about which the Minister said we would achieve savings of about $3m in State grants. What do we mean by the words 'achieve savings'? The Prime Minister talks about the need to do things afar off, and I agree with him. But he cuts down programs in this country. Who is going to go without? Will it be the sick? Will it be the health programs? We know what the Aboriginal health situation is. Will it be the homeless? We know what housing is like. Will it be the hungry? We know about malnutrition that is caused for all sorts of reasons. Will it be the unemployed? What is going to happen next? Honourable members might take a look at some of the projects that have been happening around the country. They might go and have a look at what has happened in the education area in respect of the bilingual and other programs. Thousands of young Aboriginal children have been able to attend schools which they have not been able to attend before. 
Honourable members might take a look at the legal aid situation and what that has meant in the courts. It is unhappily true that even in this country the poor, the long-haired, the migrant, the Aboriginal are the people who get the worst deal from the police and the courts. I am pleased that the Minister is to take up the question of the relationship between the police and the Aboriginal people. Work on this problem was carried out for me back in 1973 by  Mr Les  Shilton who had been a member of the police force in Victoria and a member of the State parliament. However, his job was terminated not long after I became Minister for the Capital Territory. The present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will probably find the beginnings of the report that he was going to produce somewhere in the records. 
There is no doubt that there are tensions on both sides. But the legal aid system for Aboriginal people often had to rely upon folk who administratively were not all that reliable. I had my own difficulties with people in the Northern Territory and in Darwin in particular. But one has to weigh the disadvantages of being a Minister under attack in situations like that with the advantages to the Aboriginal people who are protected from going to gaol. I suggest that in this review and reassessment of programs the last thing we want to do now is to reduce those programs. There is enormous wealth in this country. I understand from figures released recently that Australian average weekly earnings are now about the highest in the world. There is no excuse then that some people should be deprived of their very subsistence. 
I want to say a word or two about the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, known as the NACC. I formed this organisation. We recognised the difficulties that would arise. We knew that Aboriginal people elected in circumstances such as that would not get off the ground and become the kind of formidable people that members of this Parliament become in dealing with authority. But that will happen in the next round, I should think. Their job was to be the communication system with the Minister. That is why we convened the first meeting. I suggest that the present Minister should look upon them that way- they are a separate line of communication to himself. 
Another matter that I want to raise is the decision to abolish the trust fund. I do not think that is a sound administrative procedure. This is still an area in which there is need for a great deal of flexibility. If you make an arrangement that you want $20m for housing this year and instead you see a need for this money to be transferred to employment or in some other direction during the year you may be faced with the fact that this Parliament has appropriated the money for the particular purpose of housing. In these circumstances you come up against the inflexible systems that we have inherited. I suggest that if you do remove the trust fund you retain the greatest possible flexibility in the estimates. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that at least 50 per cent of Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory suffer from malnutrition? Can he confirm that all supplementary feeding programs for Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory have been terminated at a saving of $200,000? Are the Western Australian and Queensland Governments continuing at an increased rate supplementary nutritional programs for Aboriginal children in their States? If the facts are as stated, why is the Government so callous in its treatment of the - 
-I take it that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  demonstrates the finest flowering of the capitalist spirit; that his enunciations here this afternoon flow very greatly from his antecedents. He was talking nonsense. First of all, let us consider the situation of the average working person in Australia in the years 1972 to 1975. As I will demonstrate directly, his or her living standard changed dramatically. There was a transfer of wealth from the business and corporate sector to the private individual and the household. That was one of the social aims of the Australian Labor Party, and we are prepared to fight to retain it. 
The honourable member said that the changes in the tax system will produce enormous benefits, particularly I suppose for the extra 100 000 people who are likely to be put out of work as a result of the Budget. He used the words 'given projected changes in the tax level'. One of the lessons of the last few years is that it is very difficult to predict the level of tax changes and so on. If inflation slows down, which the Government says is its objective, and if wages stop rising, as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  continues to demand, then of course taxation will become less and less and the deficit will increase. As far as I could tell, the honourable member was overlooking some of the fate of his own electorate. I take it that the electors will not overlook him when the next turn to vote comes around. As I understand the figures that have been given to me, in the last Labor Budget there were to be substantial grants for various areas in his electorate. A total of about $ 15.3m was to be allocated for various developments to be undertaken by the South Western Sector Development Authority. In this Budget the allocation has been reduced to something like $2m. That will have a disastrous effect upon the area. Unfortunately, it  is 2 1/2  years after the act before the disaster can be sheeted home to the man partially responsible for it. The Budget will have serious effects on local employment. 
The honourable member for Macarthur also said that the Labor Government was spending more than it was generating. Exactly what did he mean by that? 
-Eight thousand million dollars of what? The honourable member who interjectshe is a descendant from a long line of capitalists, as I understand it- at least ought to learn arithmetic. I am talking about the usage of the words 'spending more than it was generating'. In what way was there more money around than there were things to buy at the end of 1975? Of course, the statement by the honourable member for Macarthur is just part of the misuse of words which is part of the whole political philosophy of honourable members opposite. 
The honourable member for Macarthur said that the Labor Government destroyed the industrial capacity of the country. I will give him a few figures directly to show that that is not the case. Is there anything one cannot buy in the shops these days? Is there anything that is not being manufactured in sufficient quantities? There is very little that one cannot buy. If there is anything, it is not apparent in the places I frequent. The honourable member talked about 'the old style economic concepts of the Labor Party'. I do not know what he would call his concepts. They seem to be the final products of the Flat Earth Society. There seem to be a stack of pre.Copernicans opposite. Honourable members opposite have not yet learnt that the world is round. They are still afraid they will fall off if they try any new ventures. 
The thing that bothers me about the whole debate on the economy is the intellectual sterility of it. The Government is cloaking a failure to understand 1976 in a cloud of jargon. I speak in this area as what might be termed an economic agnostic. Having looked at all the philosophies and theories that have been espoused, I do not believe that any of them will work. Let us look at the Government's strategies as announced by the Treasurer. First of all, he said that the Government would control inflation by controlling the money supply. That is a deep-seated conviction. It is right through the system. He has been talking like that since he set his sights on getting on to the treasury bench again 3 years or so ago. He will achieve some of his objectives by forcing down the level of real wages. He will transfer activity from the public sector to the private sector. 
The Treasurer had something to say about the role of the deficit. Honourable members opposite seem to have replaced the communists under their beds with the noughts in the deficit. These points are arguable. It is possible that the measures the Treasurer has outlined will work. I do not believe they will. I stand here as the complete pessimist, without any reservations at all about the policies that are being pursued. I can see- I guess that the Treasurer would acknowledge that this is the case- that the complementary results will be a reduction in the living standard of the average Australian worker. That must flow from a reduction in real wages. There will be a depression in the general quality of life because a reduction in expenditure in the public sector naturally must affect the quality of one's life. If we continue the way we are, having no faith in the private sector's ability to take up the surplus human beings who are around the system now, I suggest that there will be redundancy of human beings. We on the Opposition side hold strongly to the belief that the Whole Budget document is a prescription for social division and social deprivation. I mention, for instance, the reduction in finance for areas such as migrant education, urban development and Aboriginal development programs. 
I think that I ought to deal for a moment with what one might call .T ......1.-1,.-.' the fine flowing eloquence of our colleague the Treasurer. I quote these remarks to save honourable members opposite having to look them up. He said: 
Recovery is now getting under way. 
Where is the evidence for that? Is there a reduction in unemployment. That does not seem to be so. Is there an increase in the opportunities for employment? There does not seem to be any increase. It is not shown by the figures. The figures may well lie, but I doubt it. I think that this is just simply the use of words to try to confuse the community. The honourable member for Macarthur followed in the Treasurer's footsteps with a speech full of equally specious  cliches.  The Treasurer said: 
The private sector is growing again and confidence is gradually returning. 
Where is the evidence of that? He said that he is going to rebuild confidence further. I am utterly and unreservedly pessimistic about what the Government calls confidence in this context. The facts, as I see them, are that Australian productivity has now outrun Australia's consumption capacity. There is very little opportunity for Australia to. export manufactured goods. The number of people in the work force required to produce the goods and services we need will diminish further and further. 
I do not have dark glasses on. Actually, it would be a good idea to wear them, considering the view I have from this side of the House. As most honourable members will know during the recess a number of us visited a large number of factories. As a member of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee's sub-committee on defence industry, I spent about 20 days altogether visiting factories. In every factory we visited, even in the much criticised shipbuilding works, we found that there has been a reduction in the amount of labour required to produce the same goods. There is no doubt about that. It is inevitable that every dollar invested in the manufacturing industry will enable the owner and the manufacturer to employ less and less labour to produce the same amount of goods. Honourable members would be well aware of that. One can visit any factory and see that this is so. For instance, in the Government clothing factory in my own electorate there is a magnificent machine. It is computer-operated and it cuts out 100 layers of cloth in 14 different patterns once it has been set under way. One small factory I visited had a new milling machine. The man working the machine now produces 5 times as much as he did a couple of years ago. There is no future in the industry. Let me continue with the remarks of the Treasurer. He said: 
It is a Budget for confidence- it is also a Budget for reform. 
I wonder what is the philosophy behind this one: 
The share of company profits in national income- one of the flywheels of our whole economic system- remained depressed at around three-quarters of its long run norm. 
If the Government adopted that philosophy it would still be burning witches. If 20 years ago the normal percentage of profits was 15 per cent or 16 per cent and the Government must maintain it because that was the case 30 or 40 years ago, it would never change anything. In the 3 years in which Labor was in government there was a change of emphasis from profits to wages and salaries. I think that that was a substantial piece of social progress which every Australian ought to applaud. I suppose one of the advantages of this Budget is that at least it demonstrates the totally different philosophy of both sides of the House. The Treasurer had this to say: 
Initial measures to control government expenditures were taken. 
I am not sure why people talk like that. There is no difficulty in controlling government expenditure. Most of us here would admit that government expenditure is satisfactorily controlled. It is the decisions about the direction of it about which we may argue. The honourable member for Macarthur and all honourable members opposite have denounced the previous Government for its expenditure on government projects and in the public sector. I and the rest of us on this side of the House continually have to stir the citizens of this country to realise and recognise the fundamental importance of the Government's role in Australian society. 
We have a mixed economy. The role of the Government is fundamental to the Australian economy. First of all governments are our biggest customers. Governments are responsible for the infrastructure upon which industry depends. They supply, control and develop transport systems; they lay down airfields; they rehabilitate railway systems; they build power lines and supply the water, gas and all communications on which everybody depends. It seems to me that there is a fundamental fallacy in attempting to divide the Government and the private sector in this way. Each is important. Some areas of government are productive and some provide services, just as in private industry a lot of services may not necessarily be productive immediately, but they are all part of the society in which we live. I regard the attacks upon government expenditure over the last 3 years as having a great potential for disaster in this community. All these things- the roads outside, the water coming through the taps, the quality of communications systems including the telephone- are as important to our standard of living as are the carpets on the floor. They cannot be divided up that way. 
There is no possibility of private industry supplying all those things which are fundamental to the development of Australian industry, such as communications, water, power and transport. I believe that this is the fundamental fallacy in the economic philosophy of honourable members opposite. I think it is the greatest weakness of the Budget We can make decisions one way or another about whether the pension ought to be at level A or level B. We can make decisions about whether we should support this or that public project. But once we start to reduce the capacity of the public sector to service the rest of the community we reduce our capacity to recover from anything. Let me remind people what are the facts of life. Last night I heard the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  talking about the extraordinary difficulties that flowed to people as a result of the increase in prices with wages not keeping level with them. That is true enough. As I understand it, average weekly earnings in Australia are now amongst the highest in the world. Lots of people say that this is pricing us out of business. It is my firm conviction that there is not much business to be done outside Australia in the manufacturing area. 
Let me cite a few figures which I worked out last December. I do not think that there has been any great change in their relativity since then. In 1972 for average weekly earnings one could buy 170 lb of butter and in 1975, 210 lb; in 1972 one could buy 900 lb of sugar and in 1975, 1200 lb. For such things as meat there has been a significant difference. In 1972 one could buy 163 lb of lamb as against 209 lb in 1975. One could buy 1700 bricks in 1972 and 1900 in 1975. There have been a few changes in the costs of motor cars. In December 1972 it took a person 24 weeks to earn enough to buy a Mini Minor. Last year in December it took 20 weeks of work. There has been a substantial change in the standard of living of the average Australian person. Recently I spoke to a person who sold motor vehicles in a country town. He told me that in the previous 12 months he had sold 22 vehicles, I think it was, only one of which was bought on hire purchase or finance of any sort. Five or six years ago all but one would have been bought on hire purchase or finance of some sort. . The same situation applies to such things as colour television sets. How did the swing towards the purchase of colour television sets happen? It was possibly because of good salesmanship and so on, but I think basically it was because people had the money to buy colour television sets. There was a substantial transfer of wealth to the people who produce such articles- the wage and salary earners of Australia. I think it is regressive in the extreme even to attempt to reverse the process. If it is necessary to do something to encourage business to put profits back into investment programs, there must be other ways of achieving that end. It may well be that company tax, which I think makes up $2,000m-odd of government revenue at the moment, may be one area in which that can be done. Then, of course, all sorts of adjustments would flow through the system. 
I am the first to recognise the difficulties that flow from the change in the Australian society, the change in the economy, the change in the world at large. Last year I went to Europe as part of a parliamentary delegation. Europe is facing problems similar to those faced by us. It uses different techniques in trying to overcome those problems but, until the drought hit it, there was over most of Europe a surplus of primary production; its manufacturing capacity was starting again to outrun its needs. That will be one of the features of society; we must face it. We will probably have to face all kinds of changes in what constitutes a working week and the length of a person's working life and we may have to adjust to the position of people leaving the work force for a time and then re-entering it later. Surely that is apparent enough. Surely enough things have been written in recent years for us to realise that the old prescription will not work. 
I have here many figures which demonstrate Australia's enormous productive capacity. They relate to our great production per head of population in wheat, rice, oats, and even oranges and apples. But in such things as minerals and so on, our productive capacity per head of population is much greater than that of any other country. We in this Parliament, operating as the Government of Australia, have at our disposal greater potential wealth per head of population than has any other country. It is there in the ground and on the ground. We have one of the most stable societies in the world. We have a good administration system. We have a rather complicated constitutional system, of course. I am convinced that, given that wit and the wisdom, we can resolve the problems because we have behind us more resources than have most other people in the world. 
The great regret I have about this Budget, apart from the fact that it was introduced by honourable members opposite, is that in fact it is irrelevant. It is an anachronism. I suggest that honourable members opposite should have a good look at the theory that the money supply has a great deal to do with the annual inflation rate. The figures I have in front of me have not been extracted to the extent that I can seek to have them incorporated  in Hansard.  I have just a moment or two of my time left in which to say something about them. Over many years in a large number of countries the correlation between the inflation rate and the percentage change in the volume of money has been by no means absolute. I suggest that honourable members should ask the Parliamentary Library for the figures which substantiate that statement. 
-I wonder how one so young as the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  can be so archaic in his attitudes. I have listened with some interest to the debate as it has proceeded over the last few hours. We have heard from honourable members opposite a continuing stream of abuse related to the suggestion of government enterprise and government expenditure, as if there were something evil or wrong in the fact that governments do things. On the other hand, honourable members opposite towards the end of a speech suddenly come to the memory that they also have constituents whom they represent and that they should do something about them, as was the case with the honourable member for Calare. He spent the first 12 or 13 minutes of his speech attacking government expenditure and any initiative from Canberra, and then pleaded with this House to do something about local government. Of course, he did mention that one of the great advantages that this Government is conferring upon the country is the reduction in government expenditure. I do not know what the people of Bathurst feel about that as a result of the fate flowing to them from the treatment of growth centres and everything that goes with it. 
In the few minutes remaining in this debate, I want to say something about the role of capital works and the problem of capital works in the Australian governmental scene. We have no adequate system of deciding national priorities in many areas. There has developed, unfortunately, over the years, a confrontation program between the States and the Federal Government. In my capacity as Minister for the Capital Territory during the period from 1973 to 1975 1 attended a number of ministerial conferences. On the whole, when we were around the table- in camera, as one might say- we established some rapport. We arrived at conclusions about transport, nature conservation or health programs in which we did not see much political difference. But as soon as we came out into the open there was no doubt that the non-Labor States spent a great deal of time doing their best to embarrass the programs that the Labor Government was implementing. That had a strangling effect upon many projects that the Labor Government had in mind. This Parliament has to take an initiative as far as priorities are concerned. 
I come to the question of how we are to raise the finance to fund capital works. Figures taken from the 1975 Budget indicate that the total expenditure envisaged in that Budget was $22,000m. Some $ 17,000m of that was for the actual running expenses of Australians. Some $ 19,000m was the actual income anticipated. On any sort of normal budgeting arrangement for normal people, it would have been said that there was a surplus of $2,000m. The $5,000m difference between the $ 17,000m for current expenses and the $22,000m for total expenditure was the contribution from the Federal Budget towards the general capital works of Australia. Any reduction in that contribution is a reduction in the standard of living of future generations. We have to find a way of funding those works more satisfactorily, because governments are the fundamental performers in respect of the quality of life in this continent. Australian governments supply most of the transport systems, fund them and develop them. If this Government cuts off supplies of funds for capital works for railways, roads, ports, harbours, airports and so on, the next generation will suffer. The communications systems of Australia- television, radio, telecommunications and so on- are totally in the hands of governments. 
Any reduction of government effort is a reduction in the quality of life and the capacity to produce in the future. The same can be said of education and most other facilities. The question of the streets in municipalities was raised by my friend from Calare. He represents country municipalities of great productive capacity. I represent 2 municipal areas in the city of Melbourne, both with great industrial capacity. Nearly every street in Brunswick and most of the streets in Coburg should be rebuilt to bring the area up to the sort of standard we expect in such a city. The funds to do that will flow only from Canberra. They will flow only from initiatives taken here. Somehow we have to find a way of tapping the enormous wealth of this country. 
The honourable member for Bendigo is a one-and-a-half oncer. At the first wave of discontent we will have to put him on our  Hansard  list, and I will do that quite happily. The fact is that behind every Australian lie more resources than lie behind any other people on this planet. I would suggest that honourable members opposite do some arithmetic. It needs only eight grade arithmetic to work out the tonnage of coal, iron ore, etc., and the productive capacity of the factories that lie behind each citizen. The problem we face is that honourable members opposite have not the wit, the wisdom or, I am afraid, even the will to try to determine how they are going to tap this wealth and use if for the people of this country. Future generations are going to look back at us and say: 'What was wrong with that lot?' They will be able to point to the guilty men opposite and wonder how on earth the people of Australia had so much folly as to send any of them here. I will conclude on that note because I have made an agreement with the 'Minister for very little communication * to sit down in time for him to carry on with the business of the House. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Despite the efforts of thousands of dedicated people and the expenditure of millions of dollars over the last five or six years the position of the Aboriginal people of Australia, which is one of the wealthiest countries in the world, still remains an abiding disgrace. There is no doubt that the Government is not only making sure that the present position continues but also is compounding the deficiencies of the past. For the last ten or fifteen minutes we listened to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  explaining the inexplicable and trying to justify the fact that the Government has reduced the total expenditure on Aborigines by $33m or thereabouts at a time when, in the logic of inflation, it should have increased it by at least $20m and when it should have taken the programs that have been or were being launched and expanded them by providing for a further expenditure of perhaps another $20m or $30m. That is what the situation requires and that is what it demands. 
I believe that the Government has behaved in an irresponsible and totally immoral way. The telegram in November by the present AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott),  who was then a private member of this House and a shadow Minister, explaining to the Aboriginal people of Australia that their programs would continue uninterrupted was one of the most dishonest political acts to which this country has been subjected in the last 20 years. It has been compounded by the effrontery of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the last week or so in going to Wilcannia and opening a housing project after spending weeks and months denouncing Aboriginal programs. 
One of the most serious discourtesies of that operation was that the Government did not even ask the local member to attend the opening. Over the last seven or eight months we have seen a most insidious, persistent attack upon Aboriginal policies, much of which I think has been motivated by racist attitudes. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has talked about wild extravagances. The Prime Minister has talked about getting value for money. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs also has talked about getting value for money. But they are not just saying that they are going to ensure that value for money is going to be obtained; they are also implying that everything that has been spent in the past has been a wild extravagance. The Government has done a great damage to the Aboriginal communities of Australia by implying that all the money that has been spent has been wasted and that the expenditure has been extravagant and unnecessary. The Government is always careful not to say exactly what it would have cut out and what it would not have done. The sad fact of the matter is that over wide areas no one performs up to standard for the Aboriginal community. 
A few weeks ago it was announced that the people of Birdsville had had the telephone connected. Good luck to them. It should have happened long ago. It was said in a news item that there were, I think, 100 people involved and that $ 100,000 had been spent on supplying them with a telephone service. How long will it be before places such as Papunya, Bathurst Island, Yuendumu, Warrabri and the rest of them will have adequate telephone services. They are communities of 600, 700, 800 and 1000 people. That is what we are debating in this House today. We are not debating the errors of the past. We ought not to be trying to score political points. The fact of the matter is that over the last few years honourable members opposite have continually denounced Aboriginal programs without ever visiting any of the Aboriginal communities that are so short of the things that they need and without facing up to the fact that in a community such as our own, which is basically one of the more egalitarian in the world, there is still a great deal of social inequality. 
 My colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, has spelt out a great number of changes in the programming. The present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs may talk as he pleases and can slide from one page to the next, but he still cannot justify the reductions in our efforts. There is no doubt that the health of the Aboriginal people of Australia is far behind the health of the rest of the community. Irrespective of whether it is in relation to infant welfare, the care of the aged or the supplying of hospitals and services, we still do not perform to the same standard in respect of Aborigines as we do in respect of the rest of the community. It is true that legal aid is still an essential requirement of the Aboriginal communities. I hope that, despite any reductions in that area, the Government will maintain the effort so that Aboriginal people get a fairer go in the courts and there are fewer of them appearing in the courts. 
Let us consider the subject of housing for a moment. It could be the heart of the matter in many ways. The Minister says that the Government is going to give private enterprise the opportunity to employ unemployed Aboriginal people. Perhaps that is fair enough in respect of some parts of Australia, although frankly I do not think that it is going to work for the general community. The private enterprise part of the community has run out of the area of growth. Let us consider for a moment the areas in which thousands of Aboriginal people live. Let us imagine for a moment that we have been transported, say, 100 to 140 miles out from Alice Springs to Papunya, where there are 600 or 700 people. How is private enterprise going to employ them? How are we going to lift their living standards without great expenditure of effort and money? It is also an immense intellectual challenge both to the people who administer such projects and to the Aboriginal community itself. 
I have before me an article I wrote nearly 9 years ago in which I said that in the end it will be only by increasing the self-reliance of the Aboriginal people and tapping their own intellectual and personal resources that we will resolve the problem. But there is no doubt in my mind that at the present moment there is no substitute for the adequate funding of projects in such a way that the people dealing with them are able to plan and get on with the job. I hope that the figures as I see them through the books before me do not mean that there is going to be a reduction in effort in relation to Aboriginal hostels. I think that they are one of the success stories. Those that I have visited appear to be running successfully. Having had a long involvement in the management of such places, I recognise that it is not an easy task to run these hostels. It is not easy to run the Kurrajong Hotel properly for members of Parliament and make a satisfactory return on it. We all recognise that these hostels are not commercial enterprises. 
How many Aboriginal families will go to bed miserable tonight because of inadequate housing? Thousands of them. This is where one of our great efforts was directed. This is why we launched the housing programs and the housing associations. This is why the Prime Minister was able to go to Wilcannia and hand over the keys to some houses. I am glad he went, but I hope he learnt from seeing what was there, or from the television if he did not take much notice while he was there, of the obstruction that existed during the whole course of the operation. 
I thought it was effrontery for him to go there and hand over the keys. It would be a good thing if the honourable member for La Trobe were to spend some time looking at the other pan of the community himself. He is one of the more richly endowed people in one of the richest countries in the world. He has the brass to sit in this Parliament and interject in a derogatory way in a debate on Aboriginal affairs. That is what is wrong with him. 
The facts are that housing is the great need and the great challenge. As was pointed out in the Australian Broadcasting Commission television program, it is not easy to design a house that fits the Aboriginal community. We recognise that. My friend the honourable member for Hughes, my friend the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and my friend the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  who is to follow me in this debate and who is  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, all recognise that there is no substitute for adequate, continuous, predictable funding. If there is one error in the whole budgeting system of this Parliament, it is the failure to get adequate predictable funding for so many long term social projects. All of us recognise the great difficulties. Perhaps most of us recognise the sad and tragic needs. But surely all of us should recognise that continuous funding is necessary so that people can get on with the job. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Hughes, was right in what he said. The reduction in effort, whether in percentage or in absolute terms, will be a reduction in achievement. We have reached a stage where the level of aspiration of the Aboriginal people has been lifted beyond comprehension compared to what it was eight or ten years ago. The Opposition admits that those who preceded the Labor Government in office, people such as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  participated in lifting that aspiration. One of the great achievements of the Labor Government was to lift the level of aspiration to a level of achievement and performance. I believe that this Government's worst contribution to Australia at the moment is its reduction in the level of effort in Aboriginal affairs, in its constant and insidious attack upon the expenditure on Aboriginal affairs, its reduction in the level of aspiration and the lowering of the morale of the Aboriginal people. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Is it established policy on the Government's part to reduce the level of real wages and so raise the proportion of the gross domestic product going to profits to what the Treasurer chooses to call the norm? Is it also established policy at the present time to appeal to retailers to sell more and to people to buy more? How can he equate his demands for the level of real wages to be reduced and people to spend more? 
I would like to take up for a moment the opposition that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has to this matter. 
I am not sure about that. If it is marching, it has a stringhalt Under this Government. The use of1 the word 'private 'seems- rather odd in this situation. There might be better words. Thinking about what the Minister had to say, we are now using a public enterprise to establish effective competition with all those private enterprise and free enterprise people to whom the Minister has given his greatest dedication in all the years he has been a member of this place. I congratulate him in recognising that if you want real competition you have to go about it in a way that is answerable to the public and not some private organisation. I am just simply pointing out for the benefit of the honourable member that there is a certain contradiction in his philosophy, in his terminology and in his philology. Perhaps he will apply himself to what we might call the muddling system that he has managed to produce and try to straighten it out. I have great respect for the Minister, but I must admit that in this matter he is in grievous error. The continuous contradictions between the Government's stated objectives and the steps it has had to take to try to reach them would seem to me to be certainly intriguing although there is a certain irony about it, if it Were not costing the country so much and if it were not making a mess of the system that is running so Well. 

 Mr HODGES (Petrie) (I0.36M am rather dismayed at the attitude of the Opposition to the use of the Word 'Medibank'. I Would have thought the Opposition would be proud to see the word 'Medibank' in the Bills and Used as frequently as possible. It is to my utter disgust and dismay that the Opposition wants to see the word dropped and the Word 'supplementary' inserted in its stead. I cannot understand the Opposition's attitude. The word 'Medibank' is now widely used. The phrase 'Medibank Private' is well accepted in the community. I do not find any confusion from the point of view of the general public. The public knows that Medibank relates to the Medibank Mark II in relation to the levy and that Medibank Private is the Health Insurance Commission's private health fund. I just think it is so frivolous on the part of the Opposition to move amendments of this kind. 
-Yesterday this House paid its respects to the passing of the  Chairman  of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the People's Republic of China. It did that properly and in accordance with the established customs of the House. At the same time, it took the briefest possible notice of the death of a man who served in this Parliament for 20 years, a step against the general principles upon which we have operated. So I stand tonight in the House to place on the record something in memory of Eli James Harrison who was a member of this Parliament from 1 949 to 1 969. 
Jim Harrison was the member for Blaxland in New South Wales. Before that he had been a member of the Legislative Council in New South Wales from 1942 to 1949. During the period of his working life he was an active and dedicated trade unionist,  President  of the Australian Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen and its State Secretary. During his time here he was a member of the front bench. There were probably few more assiduous workers in the whole system than Jim Harrison. I put this on the record tonight: I hope that in the future we will not do this again. On the day the House resumed for the Budget session, we took note of the passing of three or four of our former colleagues, a number of them senators. 
Yesterday I regret that the Acting Speaker did not give those of us who wished to place on the record our regret at the passing of Jim Harrison and to pay respect for the work he did an opportunity to stand up and do so. The point was made to me by some of my colleagues afterwards when I mentioned it to them that they thought it was not a proper courtesy but that perhaps we had adopted a policy that only members of Parliament who had been Ministers formerly should be noted in this way. I hope that the House will not reach the stage where it accepts in the passing of members from this life, or from this House either, that the rank the person held here had something to do with the courtesy and respect paid to that person. So I hope that we will from now on pay proper respect to people, no matter how brief their period here was or how long ago they served in this House. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  we come back to the point which arose at about phase 5. 
I move: 
That the ruling 'that the question before the Chair is that the question be now put' be dissented from. 
I do not want to - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Wills be not further heard. 
I was just going to - 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Does he agree that there was an Indonesian invasion of East Timor and that Indonesians killed and wounded thousands of the population of that area? Does he agree that there cannot be any self-determination in East Timor without Fretilin and its supporters taking part? If he agrees with that, will he clearly say so to General Suharto when he is in Indonesia shortly? 
I support absolutely the remarks made by my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  in his commentary upon what passes for a foreign policy with the Government. I particularly support the remarks he made about Timor. I think it is important that people realise that when we are debating foreign affairs we are debating matters which have a fundamental effect upon the future and security of the community and the nation at large. I do not believe that there should be so much secrecy in foreign affairs. I believe that the people's security and the permanence of the nation are matters for continuing public debate and matters on which there should be continuing public information. Of course so many things have to be done confidentially. So it is a useful thing, if only for a few minutes on occasions such as this, for the Parliament to talk about these matters. 
With what are we inflicted? For a start I think Australia is inflicted with a deffident psychology in world affairs. What is our function? Are we too small? In the 20 years since I first became a member of this Parliament we have associated ourselves with some of the most reactionary attitudes of the geat powers of the world. We have always looked overseas to find ourselves some involvement, if possible, with other people's affairs. I can remember the disputes about Berlin long ago. People considered that we should commit ourselves to the protection of Berlin. I used to ask: 'How many Germans would come and defend Australia?' The same applied to the islands off China. How many Taiwanese would come to defend Australia? I am not an isolationist in these matters. I recognise though that it will be a matter of influence rather than a commitment of military personnel. 
What I want to say to the Parliament and to those listening is that unfortunately over many years, possibly from the departure of  Dr Evatt  from the scene as Foreign Minister until Labor took office again in 1972, Australia has recognised itself as being totally ineffective in world affairs. I do not think that is the pattern of history. I do not think it has been only the big battalions in history that have made their impact upon it. The England of the Elizabethan times and the 17th century was a small country, but its influence did not come just from its navy; it came from its drive and the dynamics of its attitude to the world at large. So I do not believe we are living in a power world. I do not believe we need to be obsessed with threats of Russian ships sailing around the Indian Ocean. Of course that is what navies do all the time. I instance British navies in the eastern Mediterranean. Australian ships sail into the South East Asian area. I hope nobody there regards them as a threat. The first thing we have to do is understand that the world has changed so much, that the Russian navy in the Indian Ocean means nothing in that sense. The other thing to which the community ought to start to apply itself is the utter hypocrisy of this Government. Less than 4 years ago it would not even recognise that China existed. 
It is true. I am absolutely astonished that the people of Australia place any credence in any judgement of this Government in foreign affairs. I appreciated honourable members opposite standing in this Parliament and paying their respects to  Chairman  Mao, a man whom they refused to recognise existed less than 4 years ago. If it is not hypocrisy I do not know what it is. But of course I can understand why the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  cheers for that sort of thing. Honourable members opposite cheered to send other people away to wars they could not win. They have never looked at the facts of life in the world at large. We have reduced our commitment to the world of hunger and all the rest. Now of course we have on our hands the shameful episode of East Timor and our desertion of the people there. 
It is time he did. Indonesia is our closest neighbour. As my colleague from Reid pointed out, we have a long and friendly association with Indonesia, but I can think of no reason why we should back down in the face of Indonesian claims to East Timor. It is true that Indonesia is a big neighbour. Whether it is powerful in the sense in which my friends opposite think of power in the world at large is open to question. 1 have just been reading a book  The Diplomatic Diaries of Oliver Harvey 1937-1940,  written by the private secretary to Anthony Eden. Every page I read made me more angry than ever about what has gone on in Timor. There was the appeasement of big power in 1937 because people were afraid of it. What is the situation in Indonesia? 
I will deal with that in a moment. It will not take more than 30 seconds to deal with any contribution the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  is likely to make to foreign affairs. In 1945 I was in Indonesia with the Australian forces and I can remember the appeals on the radio by the people for support for their independence. In visits to Indonesia in subsequent years one was touched by the gratitude they expressed for the fact that the Australian Government at the time- and it was a Labor government- gave them adequate support in their fight for independence. I am bothered. 1 cannot understand how the government of a country such as that could so forget its own origins as to behave in such a disgraceful fashion to East Timor. 
Yes, and I have always stood up, without fear or favour and with malice to none, for the right of people to look alter themselves, come what may. I was right on Cambodia and I am right on Timor, or correct on Cambodia and correct on Timor. The honourable member who interjected is right on everything. 
Yes, right wing, as Tar right as one can go. Let us look at Timor. First of all. there is the question of self-determination for Timor. The Minister interjected something about our Government. I am firm in the conviction that while we were in office the pressures that we kept up, inadequate as they were in their total public expression, retained a reasonable independence for the people there and kept the Indonesian forces from overt action. I am certain that that was the case. It was not until our Government was removed that the Indonesians moved in. So I am for self-determination; honourable members opposite say they are for self-determination too. Of course, the realists will say that the place will never be viable. What country is viable? Is Indonesia viable? There are a handful of nations in the world which, using viability as selfsufficiency, are viable. Are Switzerland, Sweden or Britain viable in the sense in which I am talking of it? Of course they are not. Timor, with its 600 000 people, could be as significant as Iceland, Singapore or anywhere else. 
There can be no future for the world if we tolerate what has gone on in East Timor. I do not blame only this Government. Its public expressions have been weak enough, but they have been better than those of most of the rest of the world. One of the significant features of this operation is that probably for the first time in its history Australia has had to stand on its own feet, stand on its own judgments in a foreign policy decision, and I think it has gone to water. There has been a shameful turning away by the rest of the world. Henry Kissinger is buzzing around Africa, I hope doing a good job, wringing his hands about the troubles there when 600 000 people have been imprisoned by an imperialist aggressor in Timor. Indications are that perhaps 60 000 people have been killed, but there is dead silence. I think it is a shame for the world, and it is to our shame that we have not stirred them up more about it. 
Some of us on this side of the House sent telegrams to the Prime Minister of Portugal and to the  Chairman  of the Committee of Twenty-Four. Our appeal now to the Portuguese Government is not to give way. Our appeal to this Government is to use what influence it has upon the other nations of the world to convince them of the mischief that is going on in Timor and to take whatever steps we can to ensure that the people of Timor have an opportunity to make their own decisions. I believe that when the United Nations delegate was out here and the Indonesian Government said it could not guarantee his safety we should have said: 'We will see him safely ashore'. I would not mind betting that the Indonesian Government would have accepted the facts of life and recognised that if we said that and meant it we would see it through. That is the kind of record we have to get in the world at large. I do not believe in resort to arms, I hope for a world of persuasion, but there comes a time when we have to stand and be counted. In the case of the people of Timor, I think that when they called for help, basically this country sat down. 
-I ask for leave to make a statement. 
Five minutes. 
-The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is back on the same old tack- it is a waste of money if it is spent on people who happen to be black; it is profitable enterprise and money well spent if it is spent on his white friends. What on earth is he talking about when he says: 'Too much money spent too fast on Aboriginal affairs'? Whereabouts? Which of his constituents have received more than they were entitled to or more than they needed to catch up on the system in which the rest of his constituents live? This is one of the most painful continuing episodes in this Parliament- the consistent attack upon Aboriginal advancement through innuendo, inference and sly digs at the system. Whereabouts has the money been wasted in the Northern Territory? Of course we all know that we do not get full value for things for all sorts of reasons. Some of the reasons have nothing whatsoever to do with the Aboriginal people themselves. If a bulldozer breaks down on an Aboriginal reserve or settlement in the Northern Territory it could be out of action for a month because the administrative system does not pick up the bits. Who is to blame for that? Is it Aboriginal people who bear the cost under the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? Of course it is not. 
Which part of Papunya has had too much money spent on it in the last 3 years? When will people get around to specifics? When will people take the time off to go and look for themselves and see exactly the miserable and degrading position in which people live? 
I go there quite often and I would not mind betting there are parts of the Northern Territory I have been to more often and for a greater length of time than the honourable member has. 
As the honourable member well knows I have been around for a long while. I have spent a great deal of time travelling across his electorate. I know many people in it. I make no reflection upon his work as a local member but I do make strong criticisms of his understanding of the needs of between 30 per cent and 50 per cent of his constituents. 
Mention has been made of the lack of people's desire to work because they are on unemployment benefits. What else are they going to be on? We have not resolved the question of the creation of work in remote places. What are we going to put them to work at in most of these areas? During my period as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs I felt that I was probably as ingenious as the next person in thinking up things for these people to do. But the fact is that it is almost impossible to design work programs for communities of between 600 and 1000 people situated 140 or 150 miles out from a town like Alice Springs. You can, perhaps, initiate a program, as I thought was desirable, of rebuilding a settlement to ordinary Australian standards based upon decent architectural standards and the needs of the Aboriginal people themselves. 
What else are they going to do but draw unemployment benefits- call it what you like? In this respect, they are no different from the 170 000 other people in Australia who are drawing unemployment benefits. Grog rights were mentioned. As honourable members are probably aware, I do not touch the stuff. I do not mind other people drinking it. They pay a lot of tax on it although perhaps the world would be better if it were abolished. You could not possibly sustain a situation in Australia in modern times in which some people were excluded from the advantage, if that is what it is, of drinking in a hotel because their skins were black. I recognised long ago that this created all sorts of problems. It is no good attacking that. It has been a discriminatory situation for too long. 
I want to challenge this handout system that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and his friends talk about. I met people working in the north-west of Australia who talked about the handout system. I said: 'What do you mean by the handout system?' They said: 'All this money you are giving the Aboriginal people?' I asked: 'What money are we giving the Aboriginal people?' They said: They are getting unemployment benefits.' I asked: 'In what way are they different from any other person in Australia who is getting unemployment benefits?' They said: 'Who else gets education allowances in their situation?' Thousands of people scattered round Australia are getting educational allowances, at the top of the secondary school system in many areas. They said: 'In some areas all the Aboriginal people get it. ' All the parents of isolated children get some amount. Scattered throughout Australia, is a handout system for us all, if you care to call it that. Every time we get in an aeroplane and we pay our own fare we are still subsidised by some $5 to $10, depending on where we are going, because the air fare does not pay for the airlines system. It is the same with pensions. 
We face an extraordinarily difficult challenge. It is the creation of a new community spirit and beings in areas that are remote from us, in cultures different from ours, and in situations which perhaps nobody has resolved so far. We do not get anywhere by just talking in the way I have described. What we want are constructive policies. What I would like to see is the time when the Papunyas and the Yuendumus and the rest of them even if architecturally different and different in the standard of service, look like any other Australian town. I invite honourable members to look at Leigh Creek with its population of 1000 people. It is the place we called at on the way north on one occasion. Compare it with the Aboriginal situation. There is no doubt that it is a disgrace that anybody in Australia lives in these conditions. I hope that parliamentarians will gradually turn their minds more consistently to these challenges and problems. 
Let me refer to the programs of the last three or four years, some of which were inherited in embryo by the Labor Government from the previous Government. For instance there are the educational allowances and the capital funds for business enterprises which we took up and made run a bit further. There has been an immense increase in the number of Aboriginal people who can speak for themselves and who can take thenpart in the community in such a way that they have almost dropped out of sight. They do not even realise they are playing such a significant role. There are housing programs from one end of Australia to the other that are working. Even the beleaguered Redfern project is gradually turning a derelict area of some three or four years ago into a reasonably decent housing project. The same applies across the board with all these communities which have managed to acquire properties. They are not properties which would sustain them in an economic way. What property could sustain 200 or 300 people economically in modern Australia? They are places where they get their feet on the ground and start to feel at home. 
I wanted to say a few words about the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. This was created early in 1973. As Minister for Aboriginal Affairs at the time I believed that finally it would be only through proper continuing and effective advice coming to the Minister from the Aboriginal people that we would be able to gather up the threads of policy and make them work. So we had the initial meetings nearly 4 years ago. Out of these came the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee system with something like 41 electorates. It took about 6 months. Even the election came under consistent attack. Even the responsible electoral officer when speaking to the Public Accounts Committee said that it was a disaster. I do not know what he meant by that. I have looked up the figures. By September of that year over 3 1 000 people had been enrolled to vote. Finally about 37 000 or 38 000 people enrolled and 30 000- odd voted. It was a remarkable performance. There is only about one-sixth or one-seventh of that number on the electoral roll within the responsibility of the electoral authorities. The object of the NACC was to create an apparatus free from the departmental structure and free in its own way, as we are, to work for its constituents. It is true it does not quite know how to do that. I have seen over the last few months operations which show me that it is gradually starting to feel more confident about these things. 
I do not care whether they are liberals or illiberals, as long as they stand up and speak for themselves and for the people they represent. One of the most depressing features of this Budget is the reduction in the amount of money for the NACC and the near doubling of funds for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I think that shows a quaint set of values. I make an appeal to the Minister- I think he appreciates this- to accept that the NACC is the voice of the Aboriginal people and should speak directly to the Minister. Do not let any apparatus stand between them and the Minister. They ought to have a direct hot line. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I would have wished to say a few words about the late Eric Costa in order to make sure that the parliamentary records contain something about the service he gave to us for 20 years. When I first came to this Parliament I sat near him and I became one of his close friends. He was one of those quiet assiduous people who give so much service to the country, sometimes not all that noted. He served on several parliamentary committees, especially the Public Accounts Committee, and he represented this Parliament overseas as a member of parliamentary delegations. I would hope that in future those people who pass from this world after having been members of this House are acknowledged and their efforts recorded in a better way than apparendy was to be the case with the late Eric Costa and did happen in the case of the late James Harrison. 
-In addressing oneself to the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory, one can only assert at this stage, after 10 months of office of the present Government, that the badge of office of the new Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  should surely be Ned Kelly's coat of armour. There has been a consistent attack, almost from day one, upon the people of Canberra. As the previous incumbent of that office, I might say: What did the people of Canberra expect when they took part in the destruction of the Labor Government? The people that they played their part in inflicting upon Australia were, of course, well known to them. Right across the board those people have been out to get at the purses of the people of Canberra. Rents have risen. Rates have gone up. Interest rates have become exorbitant and extravagant. This is what has happened under the people who used to attack us about the general interest situation. In fact we are now talking about interests rates that are absolutely under their control. General fees have gone up. 
I suppose the ultimate in exploitation was the first exercise of authority by the previous Minister for the Capital Territory, now the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric 
Robinson), or whatever it is called at the moment, who lifted the price of land. As I understand it, when he was asked why he was doing that he said: 'We need the money'. If there is one area in which there ought to be no exploitation of the private citizen it is in the price of land. I will say this, though: Because we are the inheritors of the past the people of Canberra still can buy land in Canberra much cheaper than anywhere else in Australia. The lesson in that for everybody is that if government could own all the housing land in Australia houses could be supplied to people at a much lower cost. 
In the few minutes that one has available in this discussion I would like to say something about the housing situation and in particular the rental situation. I find in the explanatory notes for the estimates of the Department of the Capital Territory which I have obtained from the Senate side of the Parliament, because apparently the serfs in the House of Representatives are not entitled to these documents, reference to the full economic level of rent. What exactly do we mean by that? One cannot, of course, discuss the situation at any length. Unfortunately in the field of housing we are inflicted with the market place philosophy of you take what you get. We would not tolerate such a philosophy from the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. If BHP created an artificial scarcity and then said it would put up its prices, honourable members would be after BHP, as would the Prices Justification Tribunal and the public. But housing, which is a fundamental need of a community and one of the great social areas, is being used for the exploitation of the citizen. 
As a former Minister for the Capital Territory, I carried out a long battle to protect people against the pressures to raise rents. What is the situation? We have heard so much so often about the subsidised rents of Canberra. But of course it is a specialised use of the word 'subsidy'. What do we mean by this word? Last year revenue collected from rents was $ 10.8m. The actual expenditure in running the system was something like this: $2. 3m for general maintenance such as painting, etc., and $1.2m for general servicing such as electricity and that sort of thing; coming to $3.6m. Then one has to allow for the cost of servicing this operation. I suppose one could add something like 10 per cent of the revenue- say another Sim- about the level the general community charges for such services. Therefore the cost of running the system last year was $4.6m. As I have mentioned, the return was $ 10.8m. The surplus- I will not be so bold as to describe it as a profit- was $6.2m. If this were an ordinary commercial operation one would say that one had made a $6.2m return. It may be said, of course, that this is not a satisfactory return on the capital invested. The actual capital cost of housing in Canberra at the moment would probably have been a bit over $ 100m but it now has an appreciated value of close on $300m. Taking the 1 1 400 dwelling units at the standard price of $26,000 at which each is being sold in Canberra at the moment, the value is something over $300m. 
What are we doing this year? We have lifted the rents. The return this year will be $16m. So there will be a profit of $ 12.7m on a capital investment of perhaps $100m which will give a clear 12 per cent return. The Treasury used to say- this was the accepted rule- that the money was appropriated at 6 per cent. This argument was put to me once. Of course the Treasury does not appropriate anything; the Parliament appropriates it. We took the money from the citizens of Australia and invested it in housing. We received a return on this money until about last year of between 3 per cent and 5 per cent. As one who thinks that the provision of housing is a very important social exercise and not strictly a commercial operation, and as one of the shareholders and a contributor through taxation, I would say that this return was adequate. 
We should get rid of the phrase 'welfare housing'. This is not a country of the deserving poor. All sorts of people need housing, particularly people who live in a situation such as Canberra. So we ought to take the housing stock, operate it in a commonsense way and make a deliberate decision that the return ought to be of a certain order, say 3 per cent, 4 per cent or 5 per cent, because the country will get the money back, the people will get their houses and the value of the stock will appreciate. 
Unfortunately no consistent philosophy has been developed about housing of this nature anywhere in Australia. We are still inflicted with the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement of 1945 or 1946. We are still inflicted with archaic attitudes towards public money- that one does not invest public money; one lends it. If this were an ordinary commercial operation conducted by any commercial operator a dividend would be struck. The operation would not be loaded with an interest component. It is very hard to extract from the records since 1924 how much of the capital spent on housing in Canberra actually came from loan funds and how much actually came from revenue, but the big proportion of the investment in Canberra's housing system came from revenue. So there has been a direct equity capital investment by the people of 
Australia as has been the case with nearly all public works carried out in this country over the last 30 or 40 years. Therefore if we talk about commercial operations, we ought to apply commercial principles and we ought not to inflict notional rates of interest or, as we are doing to the people of Canberra, inflict on people what the market will bear- the economic rent. 
We have tried all sorts of idiotic formulae. Why should people pay a percentage of their income- 20 per cent, one-fifth or whatever it is- on rent? One does not do that when one buys a car or a railway ticket or makes a telephone call. It would be simple in this town, if perhaps a lengthy operation, to define the amenity value of each house and treat it as a unit in that kind of system. I hope we will maintain the size of the housing stock. 
I hope that I will have a chance to speak for another 10 minutes in this session because there are one or two other matters, apart from these estimates in those for the Department of the Northern Territory, with which I would like to deal. I am sure that the Minister for the Capital Territory would be hurt if we did not take any notice of his portfolio except to refer to interest rates. Recently this Government increased interest rates on existing mortgages in Canberra. We will collect something like $ 1 9.2m in interest this year. What is the moral ground upon which people continue to raise the interest rate on money that was taken from the community and invested in the system 20 years ago? Some people fortunately are protected by the kind of contracts that were written; others are not. We are inflicting on this city all sorts of financial aberrations. 
I see that the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  is in the chamber. While the citizens of this city might appreciate his devotion to his duty as their local member, I hope that they will also sit down and do some arithmetic in respect of the high price of the sitting member for the Canberra electorate. The honourable member is actually costing them millions by just being here because of the part he played in the subversion of the parliamentary system by placing this Government in office. I hope that I will have a chance to continue these remarks later because there are a few more things to be said about Canberra. 
-In support of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  in his appeal to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  to cease mulcting the citizens of Canberra, I make one or two points. This Government was elected to office on the theme that is was going to reduce inflation. It has increased the cost of everything in Canberra. The honourable member for Canberra said that the people here had been brought down to earth with a thump. The Government even increased the price of the earth, quite unnecessarily in my view. As I said earlier, the misuse of land as a field of exploitation is an act of social immorality. No citizen here should be allowed to profit from land or speculate in land and no government ought to do it either. There is a fair price, and the price increase at the beginning of this year was introduced simply to raise more money. The honourable member said that the Government is going to restore consumer confidence. How can consumer confidence be restored when the biggest customer in the city, the Government itself, withdraws from the field? How can customers' consuming be increased, if that is what customers do, if the Government, which is the biggest employer and the biggest consumer, cuts down on its actions? Yet the honourable member talked about a fine record of management. 
We have now reached the stage where we are getting daily amendments to the 1976 Budget. Last night it was so many millions for Aboriginal affairs. Today it is so many millions for students. I wish that the people of Australia, and honourable members opposite also, would apply themselves more thoroughly to a study of the increasing incompetence this Government is showing in the actual management of the country, the Medibank system of course being the finest flowering of that incompetence. I want to speak briefly about self-government. I suppose that we are more or less on common ground. What exactly do we mean by self-government? None of us will govern himself in the strict sense in a modern society. We are all part of a co-operating system. First of all, this community has the Legislative Assembly. Members of the Legislative Assembly were continually asking: 'What are our powers?'. In the time of my administration of the Australian Capital Territory, I said: 'Your powers are whatever you wish them to be with the proviso that the House of Representatives and the Senate have a final say'. I think that I gave proof of that, under some pressure from all sorts of quarters, by signing the poker machine ordinance into law. I did not want to do so but the Legislative Assembly had passed it. There were pressures from various areas in the community. My party agreed that under those circumstances it ought to proceed. I would offer the same remarks in regard to the liquor ordinance. 
I think that the Legislative Assembly should be given many more resources than it has to administer its affairs. Certainly it should have its own drafting facilities. Perhaps some of its members should become full-time members, in the course of time, in administering matters. I say first of all that the powers of the Legislative Assembly are whatever it chooses to exercise from day to day. If it wishes to bring down a law on this, that or the other thing, it ought to get on with it. It has to negotiate, perhaps, with the Minister about the way in which this power will be exercised. Then it will have to run the gauntlet of this Parliament just as the House of Representatives has to run the gauntlet with the House on the other side of Kings Hall. I think that its powers are best undefined. Its functions are to carry out the will of the people of Canberra and its future will be what it makes of it itself. 
I think that we should aim at evolution. All experience shows that written documents which attempt to define in 1976 what the score will be in 1986 will tend only to strangle the situation. The most effective government is government by evolution and partnership. What exactly do we mean by self government? It is say in our own affairs. In this city there is perhaps more participation by the local citizens in its government than in any other area of Australia. The Legislative Assembly members are members of various authorities. In which of our electorates are the local citizens deeply involved and supplying the membership for the administration of education, health or bodies such as the Totalizator Agency Board? Of course, they are not. Most of us are ciphers in the system. In this city we have a burgeoning group of authorities on which the local people participate. My view- I was taking steps to implement it- was that the chairmen of those authorities ought to be members of the Legislative Assembly. There were some difficulties with the authorities that required full-time chairmen because we had not reached the stage at which we could have full-time Assembly members, although one or two of the members as I know them apply themselves pretty thoroughly to the job in a full-time way. 
There are an enormous number of other units in the city in which the local people serve- emergency housing committees and the like. I do not know whether they ought to be integrated more. I am inclined to leave structures alone, to concentrate on functions and make them work. There is an obsession with structures rather than functions and the way we go about things. There is a tendency to look at the form rather than the reality of business. Of course, we have the 4 local members in this Parliament who sit as members of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. Perhaps there ought to be a closer relationship between the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  and the Committee to develop a system of partnership. 
Unfortunately we have inherited a continent which is strangled by constitutional principles, precepts and writings. They can prevent us from doing almost anything. I used to wish wholeheartedly that I could do for my electorate in 
Melbourne the kind of things that could be initiated here in Canberra. In Canberra it was possible to talk directly to the representatives of all the responsible authorities- housing, education, transport or water supply- around the table and come to a group decision. After the discussion, we could start things going. But imagine the tangle that occurs between all the operational authorities within a few hundred yards of my office. Let us not therefore, interfere too much in Canberra by setting up forms and structures which will strangle the future. We should do anything that we can in this regard to assist the Minister. I think that this area has a greater participation in its own government than any other part of Australia, across the board. The element of partnership in Canberra between the national Government and the local authorities is what we must achieve everywhere else in Australia. The continuing participation of the people of Canberra through the various boards and authorities has to be sponsored. The Legislative Assembly has to be strengthened in the resources at its disposal. It may even need an increase in its membership. There are many advantages in having people retain their functions in society- in the universities, in commerce and in the Public Serviceand serve in a representative capacity. I hope that we will bring a continuing imaginative view in this area. 
I wanted to say a word or two about the Northern Territory to make sure that it is known that honourable members on this side of the chamber know of its continuing existence and of its distinguished but grievously politically erroneous member. I wish to mention also the sad collapse of the railway system in the north when perhaps we ought to be starting to think about a trans-Australia railway from the north to the south of the continent. One has only to consider what happened in 1942 subsequent to the bombing of Darwin to support this proposition. We saw total collapse of" communications because of the failure of the transport system. One had only to participate as a member of the Cabinet in the post cyclone Tracy decisions to know how essential it is at times like these, instead of having railways scrapped, to continue with their expansion. 
I hope that the Minister will adopt the more democratic electoral system we have in Canberra for the Northern Territory. It is nonsense that a major political group should be defeated in every electorate, as was the case in the Northern Territory, and therefore be unrepresented in the Legislative Assembly. I think that a comparison of the Australian Capital Territory operation and the Northern Territory operation provides a good demonstration of the difficulties of singlemember constituencies in trying to arrive at a democratically elected structure. I hope that we do not create another State of the Northern Territory in the sense that perhaps it will be a sort of pale echo of Queensland. But I am afraid if we do not keep a close watch, this is what will happen. 
I address a question to the acting Acting Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can he tell the House whether the Prime Minister has taken an umbrella or a cigar on his visit to the Indonesian dictator? 
I support the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  in their criticism of the visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to Indonesia at this time. I think that we are at a climatic moment for democracy in this area of the world. Only this morning, the tragic events in Thailand have become common knowledge in Australia. We have heard about the destruction of the Government of Thailand which was elected as a result of a reasonably free election in April 1 976 following an election in 1 975. Where is democracy to stand if we are to tolerate- in fact, almost give our imprimatur to- what is going on in Timor? On Christmas Day 1 945 I sat on a hill in Borneo with my colleagues and comrades-in-arms of an Australian infantry battalion. We listened to an impassioned appeal from the free Indonesian forces for assistance in their claim to become a free country and win independence from Holland. I know the response of the people who sat around with us at that time. The soldiers were all on their side. The Australian Government came to their aid. The unions of Australia came to their aid. Indonesia received its freedom and its independence at the response of the people of Australia over the following two or three years. I think it is sad that at this stage a nation which was born under those conditions should sink so low as to become the vehicle of aggression against its smaller neighbours. We in Australia must start to apply ourselves to the whole question of independence, freedom and selfgovernment in this area. 
What is the Government of Indonesia? It is a military dictatorship. It is not the worst in the world by a long shot, but it is a dictatorship and freedom is depressed. People are in prison without trial for years. It is not the kind of government any of us would support. Nor should we stand by and allow it to be inflicted on other people. As my colleagues have pointed out, where will it end? A few years ago, it was West Irian. Now it is East Timor. Where do we draw the line? I belong to that generation which perhaps gets a little edgy at times such as this about what happened in our time- what happened pre- War 1939 and in relation to the appeasement system. I wish to quote from an impeccable authority, according to conservative people- none other than Winston Churchill himself. I quote from page 2 18 his book  The Second World War  where he says: 

 Mr Chamberlain was imbued with a sense of a special and personal mission to come to friendly terms with the Dictators of Italy and Germany, and he conceived himself capable of achieving this relationship. To Mussolini he wished to accord recognition of the Italian conquest of Abyssinia as a prelude to a general settlement of differences. 
That could be a very accurate description of this pilgrimage of the Australian Prime Minister to Jakarta. He should turn around and come back. What are we doing? Of course, he talks about legitimacy, sovereignty and things like that. It is time to apply different criteria. What other criteria should we apply to governments and the relationship between nations? They are humanity, liberty, freedom and self-government. In my view, those demands transcend any considerations of sovereignty or what might be called neighbourliness. This is no time for legalisms. When I hear the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  the right honourable the Prime Minister and others talking about the application of the law to one little radio in Australia, my heart sinks. 
MrBaillieu-Why? 
I know that their remarks represent the desertion of the things that really matter. I am sure that even the honourable member who interjects would place the demands of humanity, the rights of people to freedom and liberty above any questions of the legality of one radio set. What have we come to? Is the regard of the Indonesians so important that we must surrender everything that this country has ever stood for? Our people went in the hundreds and thousands to fight in the First World War and the Second World War. They ran up their flag at the Eureka Stockade. I think that it should be more important for Indonesia to try to earn our regard. I would say emphatically that it is impossible for Indonesia to threaten Australia militarily in the foreseeable future. I am certain of that. But one cannot tell what the future will bring if we give continued encouragement to aggression as we have done in this case. 
What has been our approach? Let us take the significance of the radio set. There are a number of things we could do. We could have given it a licence. We could have ignored it. We could even have encouraged it. We are the inheritors of the British tradition. Back in the last century, every person in Europe attempting to overthrow dictatorships and oppressors fled to Great Britain and found a home there so that they could carry on. Where do we stand at times like these? I suggest that we should do several things: Perhaps we should change the law. We should issue a licence. We should turn a blind eye. Perhaps it is time we brought in the Nelson touch. What should we have said to the Indonesians? Perhaps we should have told them that Australia is a big country and it is very difficult to find one wireless set. Our attitudes represent an invitation to continuing aggression. I regard this incident as one of the most shameful incidents in Australia 's political history. It is true that for the first time Australia stands on its own facing big neighbours on an international question. We stand on our own because through world pressure nations have turned a blind eye to what has happened. They have passed a few resolutions, but what are they doing about the situation? My friends opposite may say: 'What can we do?' I recognise the feeling of helplessness one gets on occasions such as these. But the first thing to do is mobilise world opinion. Our ambassadors overseas ought to be calling on every single government telling them what we think about it. Of course, they will say yes. One of the lessons of my political experience is that you do not give up because people only listen to you the first time. You do not go away because they reject you the first time.You stand up, speak up and keep on doing so. Our embassies around the world ought to be part of the world agitation system. 
We should say to the United Nations: 'Send back your mission to East Timor. If the Indonesian Government cannot guarantee security and safety for it to visit Timor, we will'. I am quite certain that the Indonesian Government would not front up if we placed adequate forces at the disposal of the United Nations mission visiting Timor. We have to maintain pressure on Indonesia. We have to indicate our continuing displeasure with that country. We must not in any way give recognition to its take-over of East Timor. I suppose also that we should be continuously exercising pressure upon the Portuguese Government to use its goodwill and relationships around the world in the same way. This is no time to desert our historic past. This is the time to stand fast. 
I must admit that this morning I am stirred more than usual in these matters by the events in Thailand, a country which has had a long history of odd governments and dictatorships but also a history of very peaceful changes of government, even by way of alleged military coups. Here we have another military takeover in our area. We will become the last island of democracy if we are not careful because, as my friend, the honourable member for Hunter said, what is to stop Papua New Guinea from being next? One only has to read the telexes hung in the refreshment room to know that the Chief of Staff in West Irian was asking the Chief of Staff of Papua New Guinea to suppress the people from crossing the borders there. So I appeal to all the goodwill of the people of Australia, to our historical past and to people in this House- I know there are many who believe that what I am saying here this morning is correct- to stop appeasing dictators and oppressors and try to demand that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  stand up and speak up for what all Australians believe in: Liberty, democracy and free expression of free peoples. We should use whatever influence we have to persuade world opinion to have the Indonesians remove their military forces from East Timor. 
-by leave-Firstly, I would like to thank the House and its managers at the moment for the courtesy that is being paid to the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. The Committee is, of course, exercising its duties on behalf of the Parliament. I suppose it is appropriate enough that when a report of this nature is tabled the members of the Committee should have the opportunity to say something about it. I will be quite brief in my remarks. 
It is important that the members of the Committee associate themselves with this document. I suspect that many of the Aboriginal people of Australia will be worried that we have concentrated on a single aspect of their society to the exclusion of others in taking up alcoholism and its threat to the Aboriginal communities as a subject of special study. When either the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  who is the  Chairman  of the Committee, or the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee was speaking earlier one of my colleagues said: 'That sounds very much like the rest of the Australian community'. That is true enough. However, the kind of impact that alcohol has upon Aboriginal communities, particularly isolated Aboriginal communities, is different from the kind of impact that it has upon the rest of the Australian community. We discovered in many areas that the access to alcohol had produced a total drinking situation and that in some communities almost 100 per cent of the people drank much more than was good for them or for the community and in others the women were excluded either of their own volition or because of a community decision. The Aboriginal communities are different from our own in as much as they are comprised of very much the same people. They all belong to the same social class, their culture is the same and their economic situation is the same. So the impact upon one individual is likely to be repeated right across the board among some hundreds of them. Therefore this is an important issue for consideration if we are going to do anything for the revival of the status and morale of the Aboriginal community. 
That is the first point that I wanted to make. The second point is that we must take action immediately. There is going to be a need for an immediate amendment of the ordinances of the Northern Territory in co-operation with such institutions in the Northern Territory as the police, the Legislative Assembly and the administrative authorities. I think that we also have to seek a bit of understanding on the part of the people who purvey liquor in the Northern Territory. That applies also to the rest of Australia. I was one of those who, over many years, took an active part in having the liquor laws changed so that the Aboriginal people were not excluded. The many hundreds of thousands of people who are eagerly listening to this debate this afternoon may not be aware that I do not touch the stuff. 
-That is what is wrong with me. Maybe it has made me like I am. Others have to drink themselves into the same sort of situation. Another point is that while I was the Minister for the Capital Territory I perforce had to come to an agreement with the local authorities about legislation concerning the rights to sell liquor during 24-hours a day in Canberra, for which I found myself assailed on television some weeks ago. That is part of the problem of being in public office. The issue originally was not alcohol but the fundamental question of freedom, of human rights and of equal rights for everybody in the community. I can see no way in which it is possible to exclude one group of people from having the right to drink alcohol while everybody else has that right. This matter is a challenge to our whole way of doing things. As my friend, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  said, we have not gone into the social issues behind it. Everybody knows that the situation in which so many Aboriginal people find themselves is frustrating and degrading to the point of driving them to find some relief. I hope that the Ministers involved, including the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott),  will take immediate action to implement the recommendations in the report. 
I would also like to say how much I have appreciated the company and the views of my colleagues on this Committee. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and I would in some ways represent totally different views of politics. In some of these issues we find ourselves in total agreement. It may be that on certain specific issues the Parliament could get away from its constant arena of confrontation and could get around to co-operative looks at the social questions contained in the unanimous recommendations of the Committee. 
-That was an interesting essay from the honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson),  but I was not quite sure where he stood. On the surface he sounded terribly conservative, but scattered throughout his speech there were some thoughts that gave a hint of some more progressive attitudes. However, he did seem to fall for the current theme that flows from honourable members opposite of using education or any social endeavour as a stalking horse for political point scoring. He mentioned long hairs and existentialism and asked whether we are turning out millions of dunces, over-educated and unemployable people and so on. They are just words. They do not mean - 
I do not care what reports have been written on the subject. They may have been written by people like the honourable member for Tangney. This is an area in which people just spin out phrases without examining the facts of life. The facts of life as that we are in a state of great social and economic change. I take up the point that the honourable member made about pre-school education. As I see the figures there has been a reduction of about $9m in the expenditure on pre-school education. I sympathise with his objectives. He does not want to see university fees imposed and he wants to see pre-school education opportunities expanded. We are on his side in that respect. So I do not think that he is a total loss, although I think that it would be better if he were to get rid of some of the cliches about progressivism and so on and had a look at the system. 
I am not sure whether the primary schools are turning out such duds as he thinks they are. So far as I can see there is an enormous range of people with great literacy, competence and fluency, articulate in all sorts of ways, flowing through the education system. On the other hand, one comes upon many people who seem to be reasonably illiterate. They would make good candidates for the Liberal Party of Australia. One wonders why there is that illiteracy. Of course, we are in a mass education society. The Labor Government's contribution to education was almost to the point of magnificence as a social revolution. We changed the whole priority system of expenditure by this level of government and we launched the Australian Government into the education system in such a way that not even the vandals who sit opposite can make it go backwards. We set out to produce first of all a system of equality. We looked at the whole system. 
-If it were not for the fact that I have only 10 minutes in which to speak I would deal with the honourable member for La Trobe but, frankly, there are more important issues at stake at this moment than his interjections. The Labor Government set priorities in the field of education which I think were essential for the community in which we live. It established a new dimension in education. I instance the innovations program, which was under continuous attack by honourable members opposite. 
Education is at the cross-roads. It is no good the honourable member for Tangney or even that exalted personage the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  trying to turn out people as functions in society and saying that there is going to be no room for them unless there is a change in the economic base upon which we work. We are at a stage where society demands more understanding. It is also going to give opportunity for less physical work. So we will be living in a more complex society no matter what we think about it. Therefore we might have to look at getting people accustomed to understanding words such as 'esoteric' and so on in the field of education instead of turning them out when they are simply able to handle the three Rs, commendable though that would be. So we have all sorts of considerations before us. What is to be taught? When is it to be taught? Do we continue the education system right through life, as I think is eminently desirable, and make things available continuously to people, irrespective of whether they have missed out or feel that they need to be further educated? I do not know when a person is over educated for his employment. What is wrong with a member of this Parliament or a taxi driver being highly educated and competent to live in the society in which we find ourselves? 
I want to spend a few minutes on reminding the House about the continuing deficiencies in the field of education- special education, education buildings and so on. I represent an industrial area of Australia- the suburbs of Brunswick and Coburg in Melbourne- where 120,000 people are concentrated in an area of 1 1 square miles. For the benefit of honourable members opposite I say that they crowd there because they want to be decently represented in this Parliament. The fact is that many of the school grounds there are a disgrace to a community such as our own. Many of the buildings ought to have a bulldozer put into them. A totally new concept in education architecture is needed. What does one do with Moreland High School, which covers 1  V*  acres and which has 700 or 800 children but which has no room for expansion. We have to do something different with the architecture and so on. What does one do about the thousands of children from overseas- the Turkish, Yugoslav and Lebanese children and the children whose natural language is Greek or Italian? We have not done anything. Unfortunately- it is one of my griefs about the 3 years in which we were in government- we could not get any real action in the area which I represent from our education policy. The State Government could find no satisfactory way of removing a school building, of handling the 1000 children for whom that school normally catered, and getting on with the job. Money poured into the system for disadvantaged children of Australia often was disbursed geographically because it could not be handled in the areas where the problem concentrated. 
There are a lot of challenges in the system, such as in school management. Victoria is one of those strange places. It has quite a conservative political ethos for most of the time and over most of its area but in some areas it is much more progressive. I must admit that at the moment, and over the last few years, my observations are, and have been, more superficial than they used to be but the Victorian education system is inclined to be more adventurous and progressive in attempting new ideas of school management than the rest of Australia. I want to remind the Committee and the millions of people who have switched on their radios now that they know this debate is on of what education is all about as far as we of the Opposition are concerned. The new federalism of which honourable members on the Government side speak is a threat to a proper education system in Australia. No matter how hard we try, no matter how much we talk about the egalitarian base of Australian society, the facts are that there are great inequalities in the educational system in Australia and we will only overcome those by concerted effort in this Parliament. There is no way by which the State governments are going to be able to overcome the deficiencies which people can see spelt out in figures such as those appearing on page 152 of the Grants Commission report. They point out the enormous disparities in expenditure by States. Tasmania spends $137 per head on education, Victoria spends $125, South Australia spends $129, as does Western Australia, but in Queensland the figure is down to $99. So there are enormous disparities in the geography of the Australian education system. 
The same applies to economic inequalities. If a person starts from a wealthy home in a wealthy community, particularly a well founded community such as Canberra where the schools have been well-endowed for the best part of half a century, that person is much better off than one who starts in one of the congested areas of Australia in the great cities or out in the bush. So there is a disparity between country and city opportunities, between opportunities in various States and even between various cities. There are also disparities in social differentiations and sex. There are great disadvantages and inequalities in sex. I refer to opportunities for education according to sex in this country. In this report entitled  Girls, School and Society  it is stated: 
Females were 32 per cent of total enrolments over the 3 sectors in 1974. Men outnumbered women by just under 2 to 1 in universities; in the colleges of advanced education 37 per cent of enrolments were male; in technical and further education there were nearly 3 men for every 1 woman. 
And so it goes on. The challenge to us is to produce a system whereby the opportunities of living in this continent are equally applied to any citizen, no matter where he or she lives, no matter the social background, the sex or the race. I will not now labour the point about the great inequalities and the discrimination applying to the Aboriginal people for all sorts of reasons. The new federalism threatens the Australian education system and will prejudice any effort to develop a proper and equal Australian educational system. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Austria, Belgium, the European Communities, the European Parliament, Council of Europe, Federal Republic of Germany, Poland and the German Democratic Republic, between 9 and 28 June 1975, in substitution for the report presented on 3 June 1976. 
I will give what might be called a slight measure of support to some of the remarks about the Australian Broadcasting Commission made by the temporary member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  the temporary member. It is true that during most of its existence it has been beleaguered in one way and another. There are always those people who think that the things it shows are things it ought not to show and so on. I can recall an occasion when the manager in Canberra received a very abusive and eloquent letter from some benighted soul south of Canberra who complained that it had shown the Australian Rules final instead of the Rugby final. It will always be under that kind of assault. 
On the question of pornography, decency, good taste and such things, I hold an open mind as to what is what. On the whole I think that aesthetics, good taste and good judgment in these matters should prevail but there is no way you can define the subject. In the debates for and against censorship that occurred in this Parliament over the years, I usually took the line that there is no way in which you can have an effective censorship except that which relies upon good taste. My own view is that there are lots of things I do not want to look at. I do not think they ought to be inflicted on me and they ought not to be publicly displayed. But is television public or private? In most cases it is looked at by people who have the power to switch it off or to switch to something else. I am often offended by the language of my colleagues, even some of those who sit on this side of the chamber. I think that many words used to describe situations are unnecessary in view of the scope of the English language. I might also say that most of the things I consider obscenities are also inaccurate when used as metaphors. Therefore I hope there will be continuing pressure upon people in the public media to use good taste. 
I want to say a word or too on behalf of the retention of the scope, style and size of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I think it was a major retrogressive move to reduce the scale of its activities, to look upon its operations as having to come under the system of cuts and restrictions that presently prevails. The ABC has a particular role; it is part of the freedom of information system in Australia. In a political sense it provides one of the few objective commentaries that there are. I use the word 'objective' in that sense. The ABC does not necessarily find the truth or always strives to find it but it has no political row to hoe. I believe it is important that the Parliament should exercise its authority over all those involved in the Australian Broadcasting Commission to ensure that its standards are retained. I regret the fracas some time back when the new  Chairman  chose to intervene in the program  Alvin Purple.  I have never watched that program. I think it comes within the area in which the highest authority has to leave the matter to the people who run the show but lay down guidelines from time to time. As far as I understand the situation, the restraints and cutbacks in recent times on the Australian Broadcasting Commission and its failure to expand in accordance with the inflationary value or non-value of money, represents a very serious blow to Australian cultural institutions, to the standard of our entertainment and to the development of such things as our film industry. 
I regard the program  Power Without Glory  as a first-class production. I cite that as an example. I occasionally saw programs like  Rush  and others with varying degrees of entertainment value. 1 believe that the employment of people in the industry is important. The expansion of the opportunity for Australians to participate in cultural exercises of this sort fills a major social need. I think we have reached the stage in our society where the non-manufacturing part has to be developed. It is unfortunate that so far no formula has been developed by which we can obtain funds for this section of society except through the general run of the public purse. These areas are so important to our future affairs that we ought not allow them to be interfered with. 
I shall raise two or three other matters in the 5 minutes I have left. First of all, I shall deal with the Post Office. The postal and telecommunications systems are part of the organs of democracy. The capacity to communicate across the continent and throughout society is very important in a democratic society. Over the last few years we have all been associated with policies which have been developed and which have imposed upon the Post Office financial policies which are irrelevant to its needs and slightly aberrant in the way they have developed. At the present moment I cannot see much chance of reducing the cost of postage although I think we could easily develop a better formula for arriving at what we ought to charge. I suggest to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Robinson)  that he place before the Australian Postal Commission the idea of a local postal system. In the area which I represent, a major industrial area, we often want to post articles to a lot of people, as does everyone else. The 1 8c postage is, of course, a very great restriction upon the freedom and passage of information. I suggest that there ought to be a local postage charge. If one posts an article inside the postal delivery area so that it does not have to leave that post office, one should be charged something like 6c. 
I think it should be 6c or 7c. I agree with the honourable member for La Trobe who is perhaps temporary but, for the moment, a useful member. As I understand the situation it costs 2c or 3c once we pop a letter in the letter box and it gets into the system and is delivered. During my ministerial presence in this place I was in charge of Norfolk Island where there is a penny postage system. It paid its way. Letter boxes were at the post, office. One put one's letters in the post box and they were delivered into those letter boxes from which people collected their letters. Norfolk Island would be about the size of the average Melbourne suburb in area. I do not think we have applied our minds to the question of reducing these costs. 
-There are plenty of unions there. Norfolk Island was also well governed during that time. The other matter relates to telecommunications. I hope there will be a continuing program in the reduction of telephone charges. I wonder what is the actual return upon the coaxial cable between Melbourne and Sydney. Thousands of conversations go along it most of the day. People are being charged a certain rate and so the return to the telecommunications system must be extravagant in the extreme. I understand that despite everything else this section is still paying a profit. I come to the point where I think that the financial structure of the Post Office is some sort of a relic of the past. I can recall when the Post Office was first required to pay interest upon capital advances. My colleague from Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said on that occasion: 'This is the triumph of Treasury doctrine over common sense '. I believe that principle is well established. Perhaps something near $2, 000m has been spent on the capital works of the Post Office. Much of that amount has been paid for out of taxation by people who have gone before us. Many of them have long since died. Yet, for some mysterious reason it was decided that it was commercial practice to apply to those capital works some notional interest burden and so lay that burden on the system. 
It seems to me from my observation of the systemI am not really a participant in the capitalist enterprise world- that that is not the way in which commercial enterprise works. Let us look at Broken Hill Pty Ltd and at its total capital involvement. Honourable members will find that some of that capital is share capital upon which the company pays a dividend as the directors decide; some of it is loan raisings upon which the company has to pay a fixed interest return; but a big proportion of it is cost free capital which the company has acquired either through appreciation of assets, sales of assets, or the ploughback  of profits. This situation applies equally to the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd which was the home ground of  Sir James  Vernon. How is it that we allow what appear to me to be noncommercial principles to be applied to government operations as if they were commercial principles? 
I have been saying this a long while. Perhaps it is starting to fall on more receptive ears. The more idiotic the principle, the more idiotic become the charges which flow from it. I understand that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who is at the table, is a tycoon of some sort in his own right. He would understand how he runs his business enterprises. He understands how to make money. I hope he will start to reverse the trend of the Post Office. 
-The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  seems to me to be working out of the past. It is true that we are spending an enormous amount of our treasure, to use that word, on defence- $2,000m this year and every year, which is  2Vi  times the total cost of the Snowy Mountains scheme. So we have to start to evaluate the situation in a different kind of way. I disagree with the remarks of the honourable member for North Sydney about future projections. I think that we must project ourselves beyond the present and into the future- 10, 15 and 20 years hence, which is a long time in politics- otherwise we will be paralysed by the simple statements of the situation us it now stands. 
I join with my friend the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in saying that we have time to deliberate carefully upon this matter. .We do not say that the future is secure. I do not hold the quite gloomy view of the politics of it all of the honourable member for North Sydney, but I do  suspect that the  kind of governments that are likely to develop to our north will be inclined to be capable of anything. One of the misfortunes of our parliamentary procedures at the moment is that we cannot have a full engagement on defence. The debate on the estimates for the Department of Defence is simply a skirmish in which we can raise a few issues. So I take up what the honourable member for Oxley has had to say and point up the very important points that he made. He spelt out the actual physical realities of Australia's defence situation vis-a-vis its neighbours at the present moment and he said that there was time for a mature consideration of the situation. He implied-in fact, I think he actually said it- that we should go for the overkill by having an over sophistication of our weaponry at this stage. 
-Thank you very much,  Mr Minister.  I was going to say something about that White Paper, but I have been associated with this place for long enough to know that if what is going to happen tomorrow actually happens within 6 months we are not doing too badly. I think we are at the stage of a totally new debate on defence. It is a totally new environment in which we now live insofar as defence is concerned. When the Timor situation arose we came upon a new situation insofar as our foreign affairs policy is concerned. For the first time Australia has had to make a decision of its own, on its own ground and in its own area without any real support or pressure from anybody else. In fact, it might be said that all the freedom fighters throughout the world for whom we have poured out great support in recent times- the Americans, the British in Malaysia and all the other people of that sort- ha ve been as silent as a tomb when it comes to the situation in Timor. 
I am afraid that I look at the future in much the same terms. If we are talking about great and powerful friends, it is true that we do not need to think as deeply about the matter. But if we are thinking of Australia as being a continent in pretty much an isolated situation in a world which will have grave doubts about the merits of participating in the affrays of other people we are thinking of a new situation. It seems to me that Australia's history has been of the order of ad hockery in relation to defence and I am not using that word in a derogatory sense. As the issues of other people have arisen in other parts of the world we have responded. In 1914 we went off to Europe. In 1939 we went across the globe. In 1965 we sent people to Vietnam and so on. They were the issues of other people in other parts of the planet. I do not think that we have had an effective actual policy in relation to defence since about 1910. 1 am not saying that in a derogatory way. It is just a simple matter of the facts of life as history has developed. But we have grown out of that. We do not live in that sort of situation any more. 
I look at this matter in this way: Firstly, we are in an area on our own. I think it was General de Gaulle who once said that there was no absolute value in treaties. I say that, too, without any disrespect to the people with whom we have signed treaties. Situations can arise in which people can be involved on both sides. I refer to an argument such as we might have with our neighbours. I believe that the Indonesian Government has placed this whole area in a situation of great insecurity. I am not saying that it is a threat at this moment, but it is a government that confronted Malaysia for all sorts of mystical reasons, it did take over West Irian and it now proposes to incorporate- it claims that it has already done so- East Timor in the Indonesian Republic. Where will it stop? I think we have to face up to the fact that that places a new situation before us. So we have to start to look at some principles that will have to prevail. Australia will have to develop self-sufficiency. We have to be in a situation to defend ourselves. I support the enumeration by the honourable member for Oxley of the factors involved. It would be very difficult for anybody to invade this country in the foreseeable future. But the position 1 5 or 20 years hence is what we are looking at when we start doing things now. Preparations have to be made for things which may happen 1 5 or 20 years hence. 
We have to grow out of our national inferiority complex. Why are we acting as we are- I was nearly going to say why are we being so craven- in our approach to the Indonesian Government and its aggression in Timor? Because we think that we can do nothing about it. What we could have done, of course, is given full support to the United Nations mission. There is very little that the Indonesians could have done about that. I believe that Australia is afflicted with an almost unique national inferiority complex. Australians do not understand the strength of this nation. They do not understand that a nation of 13 million people, with an immense industrial capacity and being the kind of continent that Australia is would in fact be very difficult to invade, capture and hold. So I think we can look at self defence. We must look at selfsufficiency across the board. I remind the honourable member for North Sydney that it was the Australian Labor Party that was talking in this Parliament about air defence back in the 1930s. I think he will find that Scullin and Curtin spoke about it at that time. They were before their time relative to the rest of this Parliament then. 
Some things have been said here today about the role of the Whitlam Government in the 3 years in which it was in office which ought to be refuted. It improved the situation of the serviceman a great deal. It set out upon a program of Navy re-equipment. It set out on re-equipping the armed forces. I think it picked up the tab for the- Fill aircraft, no matter what it thought about that aircraft. It established the reserve forces. Frankly I do not think much of the use of the word 'reserve' to describe that section of the 
Services, but it is a situation in which the name is not as important as what the Labor Government did about it. 
In the next few moments I would like to say how very important it is that we protect the industrial base of the Australian defence system. I believe that a great deal of the defence preparedness is multi-purpose planning. There are innumerable things that one can do which have both a Service and a civilian role. We underrate the capacity of Australian industry, of the Australian scientific services and the general productive capacity of the nation in this field. As a member of the defence industry sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I have had a good look at shipyards, workshops and the electronics industry over the last few months and I have been astonished by the versatility of the situation, the capacity of it and the way in which it is underrated and undernourished. I think the Industries Assistance Commission is a threat to this system not because it has any malevolent purpose but because the IAC is looking at the economics of a situation and not at the facts of life of a nation's self-sufficiency. I hope therefore that we will take steps to protect the shipbuilding industry. 
One can only make brief appeals in situations such as this one. I belong to the generation that saw the last war. I participated in it in a modest way. I was part of an invasion force which was most impressive from the point of view of the size of the ships that were involved, but that is by the way. In this country we need ships. We need to be able to get our own ships. We need to be able to continue to produce them. We have to think of a new procedure for the manufacture of aircraft for the Air Force, the manufacture of armoured vehicles for the Army and the manufacture of ships for the Navy. We need all these things to keep ticking over so that come the day that buttons are pressed, the defence system will go into full fighting trim. 
-I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What are the factors in the friendship and relations between Australia and Indonesia which are more important than the principles involved and the welfare of the people of East Timor? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Does he propose to take steps to strengthen the authority of the Poker Machines Licensing Board to control the purchase of poker machines. 
Will he refer to the Legislative Assembly an amendment to the Poker Machines Ordinance authorising the Poker Machines Licensing Board to own and lease machines. 
I think the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  was gracious in accepting the fact that the Parliament ought to discuss this matter of Aboriginal heath and that we ought to participate in it in a reasonably nonpartisan way as did the Minister and my friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  A continuing feature of Australia's history has been that Aboriginal people have received less than a fair go. This country is extraordinarily resourceful in other ways. It has enormous wealth at its disposal. Probably the Aboriginals when we first came here were the hardiest survivors of the roughest and toughest terrain on this planet. Now they are reduced to the state of ill-health which has been nominated today. 
I remind honourable members, as I have been reminding them for 20 years or so since I was first alerted to the matter, that a continuing feature of Australian governments in dealing with Aboriginal people is under-performance. It is not necessarily a question of lack of will, but somehow we do not seem to be able to deliver the goods to the Aboriginal communities in the way in which we do to the rest of the community. Some of this has to do with geography but a lot of it has to do with our failure to understand thencultural background. A good deal of the situation has to do with the continuing changes in funding of programs and so on which have happened down through history. So despite the flying doctor service and good communications we still find it impossible to resolve some of the problems. I mentioned that there were a number of features in this whole subject. The first is persistence. Almost ever since the beginning of settlement in this country there has been an acknowledged failure of the community at any stage to be able to handle satisfactorily the Aboriginal population. A report issued by a public servant on 30 August 1 839 states: 
I am distressed for the blacks- I cannot feed them as I would- I have no clothing for them- I find I shall be obliged to relinquish giving them flour as my stock is growing short What a disgrace it is that the government makes no provision for them! 
I was reminded, when this debate was brought on today, of one of my first operations in an urgency debate in the Parliament in May 1957. The motion was: 
The failure of the Government to care for the well-being of persons of Aboriginal and part-Aboriginal blood by not providing State governments with sufficient funds . . . 
That matter related to the issue of the Warburton Ranges. This has been a continuing feature of Australian political life. It is time we decided that no considerations of Budget or of anything else, no phony views of the effect of deficits upon inflation or any other operation, should stand between us in doing our duty in this matter. I do not know how we produce non-partisanship in the Austraiian political scene. It is almost impossible, I suppose, for us to avoid the necessity on occasions of scoring off our opponents. Somehow we must find a formula under which we will have a continuing program so that all these areas which need to be attacked will be continually attacked and they will be absolutely free of any reductions because of changes in government or changes in budgetary philosophy. 
This matter is continental in scope. I am a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs which at the moment is concerning itself with alcoholism. One of the most difficult parts of the task is the amount of travel involved in visiting, looking at areas and talking to people from one end of the continent to the other. We find this problem everywhere. It is in the heart of the cities and out in the remotest parts of the Northern Territory. It is basically social in origin because the Aboriginal communities stood unprepared to face up to the invasion which happened 200 years ago. Ever since, year after year and Budget after Budget Australian governments have been unprepared or unable to find solutions. Looking at the history of the matter we might say, as people so often say, that the situation is totally intractable. I do not think it is. What we are talking about goes to the very heart of the situation of the Aboriginal people. In all sorts of areas we find that they are suffering from great deficiencies. 
Infant mortality is perhaps not continuing to be the highest in the world but it is amongst the highest. It is much higher than in any other group in Australia. I have a news item from September. A study found that the death rate among newlyborn children on Cape York Peninsula was about twice as high as that in the Brisbane area. The death rate among the older infant group was almost 8 times as high on the peninsula as it was in Brisbane. The study found that in one small area on Cape York Peninsula with a high Aboriginal population there were 100 infant deaths for every thousand births. When we became the Government in 1972 we launched an all-out attack upon the problems facing Aboriginal people. I would be the last to say that we knew what the answers were before we started or that we knew what the answers ought to be by the time we were removed from office. But we launched an attack across the board. We established the Aboriginal Medical Service and gave it adequate funds. We established nutritional programs which can be found around the country. Some of them have been successful, some unsuccessful. We do not know very much about how to fund or arrange housing programs for the different communities, but until we have resolved those problems we are not going to resolve the health problem. The Labor Government made grants to the State governments for medical teams and for clinic and hospital facilities. We attacked all the general problems. Special teams were operating in the field working on the diseases which have been mentioned today- trachoma, hookworm, leprosy and tuberculosis. 
I do not know exactly what was the total amount allocated in the 1975 Budget, but we allocated $1 1.7m for the States in 1975. Some of that had a result. We will claim, I hope rightly, that some of the results in the reduction of infant mortality flowed from our attack upon the problem. In 1974 infant mortality in the Northern Territory was the lowest since records have been kept, and they have been kept for quite a while there. From 1965 to 1969 infant mortality was 1 1 1.5 a thousand, between 1970 and 1974 it was down to 97.4 and in 1974 it was down to 55.6. Perhaps that relates to the point raised by the honourable member for Fremantle- that by a forthright attack, with devoted services and an unrestricted flow of funds, the impact of ill health upon the Australian community can be reduced. 
If I could introduce what I hope is not too sour a note, I think that the attack on Aboriginal programs which was a continuing feature of the last 3 years has been very disadvantageous to the Aboriginal people. We on this side of the House were the recipients of that attack as a political exercise, but there is no doubt in my mind that it was part of the pattern of thinking created in the community which made it even harder for this 
Government to budget adequately for Aborigines. So the reduction in funds across the board is going to make it more difficult than ever for the present Ministers and their teams to overcome the problems. Inadequate staffing problems are not going to be overcome unless the supply of funds is kept up. On this occasion I appeal to the Government to take another look at funding, to remove the ridiculous restrictions that have been imposed on staffing throughout Australia, to have a closer look with a more sympathetic eye at all the programs that have been prejudiced because of the reduction of money available. We need an attack upon the staffing problem throughout the country; we need new programs on nutrition; we want public hygiene measures; we must take another look at the funding of housing. Even though there have been some failures, we must not let them overcome our good judgment in this matter. 
I am a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs which is looking at the question of alcoholism. I want to warn the House and the community that we should not be sidetracked into believing that that is the only issue involved. It is not. Alcohol has had a serious effect, but many of the problems pre-date the impact of alcoholism on many communities. However, some communities are not as badly affected as others, such as in the Warburton Ranges. I should like to say a word or two about the Committee. It may well be that the best approach this Parliament can make is to create another Standing Committee. The Committee has great tasks before it, geographically and in other ways. It may well be that expanding the size of the Committee would be helpful. Giving it more resources might be an answer. The establishment of another committee might be desirable. On behalf of the people who work on that Committee, some of whom have young families, some of whom have unsafe seats- of course, we will attempt to make some of them less safe- I would say that it is a challenge. It is difficult to service committees because of the present membership of the House. I suggest that we look very carefully at these matters and approach the question of health with a view to resolving the problems rather than continuing to talk about them for the next century. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer who is reported to have said that the rate of growth in money and credit has been excessive, creating an upward pressure on prices. What evidence is there that the growth m the volume of money and credit in this situation can be equated to the inflation rate in a period when obviously there is consumer resistance and unused capacity in industry? Will he have tables prepared for the House setting out the factual experience from which his policies are derived? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it is a moment of great excitement when the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  rises and calls on us to man the barricades. All I can say about the honourable member for St George is that the dragon that he handles will be a pretty small one. I have risen tonight to remind members of this House of the events of 12 months ago tomorrow. On 11 November 1975, the Governor-General of this country carried out such a breach of constitutional propriety, supported by the people who are now on the other side of this House and in particular by those who were sworn in as Ministers, that their actions offer a threat to the continuance of democracy in Australia. I invite honourable members for a moment to imagine what it all means. 
Let us imagine that the honourable member for St George became Governor-General. We have heard him tonight making statements in which he has demanded violence and action outside the law. Armed with the powers of the Governor-General as they were presumed to exist at this time last year, what does this mean? In the first instance, he is the CommanderinChief of the Australian forces. He can do almost what he will with those forces. But honourable members may say that that is a chimera; that will not happen. But what did happen in fact last year was something which nobody in this country presumed could or would happen. I have spoken to dozens of people, many of whom did not vote for the Labor Party last year, who heard on the wireless with complete disbelief the announcement of the dismissal of the Labor Government. They did not believe that it could happen here. 
So, if we transfer the present reading of the constitutional powers of the Governor-General to the other sections of the Constitution which deal with, for instance, the dissolution of the Parliament, the prorogation of the Parliament and the sending of messengers by the GovernorGeneral recommending appropriations, we find that a situation has been created in which there is one person with absolute authority in this country over this Parliament, over its governance and answerable to none. 
I know full well that honourable members opposite can treat a matter such as this with some levity. I know that they have one of the blackest records of Western democracies regarding the gerrymandering of electorates and the rigging of the whole ballot system. I know that no honourable member opposite could hold his head up at a meeting of true democrats. Honourable members on the Government side support such bodies as the Queensland Government, various legislative councils and the chicanery and manipulation by the National Country Party wherever it has the power. These facets of our political life are offensive to everything for which democracy stands. 
The oddest situation has been created in which what was called by Lord Bryson in 1911 'the most advanced democracy' has become a potential for one man dictatorship. It is all right for honourable members opposite to laugh. It may well be that at some time in the future somebody who does not hold the same political persuasion as honourable members opposite will occupy the position of Governor-General. In 50 years time that office could be in the hands of a person with a totally different outlook. The time has come for all of us to consider a rapid alteration to this part of the Constitution. 
Most of the vituperation has fallen upon the head of the Governor-General. But I want to remind the Parliament of what some of the members of this House did. At 2.24 p.m. on 1 1 November last year, this House passed a vote of no confidence in the continuation in government of then then caretaker Prime Minister, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Despite that vote, against all parliamentary tradition, he accepted office and some 12 or 15 members of the House at that time also accepted ministerial positions. I believe that that was an act of sabotage against parliamentary tradition. Whatever else it was and whatever else happened, that was the worst feature of that day. 
One of the brightest spots of that whole situation came the next day when members of the Transport Workers Union in this city refused to drive those members of the Parliament to Government House. Those transport drivers were probably the only people in this country who recognised the significance of the breach of parliamentary tradition by those people. I stand here tonight to say thanks to those members of the car pool in Canberra for their action on that occasion. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr NEIL (St George)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  probably has been deeply involved in the question of apprenticeships for long enough to be able to give the House a pretty fair summary of its great difficulties. He has spelt out for us one of the sad facts of education progress and policy- that we nearly always arrive at these programs too late. One of the great misfortunes for the people who are tipped onto the labour market at this time is that they have run into a time of great social change, of economic challenge, and almost philosophical difficulty, I suppose, as far as the state of the nation is concerned and we have not found the answers. I think on the whole that economically we have lost our nerve and these people are partly the victims of this fact. 
I speak as one who was a victim of a similar situation of about a generation back, about 10 000 or 12 000 yesterday's ago. I sympathise with the people and worry about the fact that we have allowed ourselves to be talked into this situation. It is some comfort to us on this side of the House that there are people on the Government side who recognise the difficulties. 
My colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  spelt out another difficulty- that of dealing with the State governments. Perhaps the difficulty of dealing with State governments is more apparent or more generic for a Commonwealth Labor government than a Liberal government. However, the fact is that it is very difficult to get State governments to come to the party for a general national policy on anything, no matter the political philosophy of the prevailing Federal government. 
-Because so much of the State governments of Australia is in the hands of people who on any consideration at all would have to be placed on the list of reactionaries from way back. I do not think all that highly of the philosophies of people in this place. I recall that after the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  made his maiden speech somebody wrote an article and said:  'Mr Wentworth  move over, there are people here further to the right than you.' The State governments are not only reactionary in so many regards; they are also obstructive. Honourable members opposite are finding some of this in regard to their own policies. 
When I look at this battery of Bills that is before us I ask myself how the Bills answer the problems of Australian education, how they protect the initiatives that the Labor government took in its 3 years of office and how they follow on the programs developed over the 20 years of education debate in this Parliament. I think I should say, with deep regret, that I see this important issue of education, involving nearly $2,000m from our Budget, in one way or another, in Commonwealth funds alone, is reduced to an omnibus debate in this place in which 8 Bills are being considered and in which there are three or four speakers from each side. That is not good enough. This is a major social issue. It may well be that we say the same things now as we said years ago. It may well be that there is not all that much difference between the speeches from one side or the other. But if this Parliament is to be a forum for political philosophies and the aims and aspirations of the people of Australia, education debates must not be reduced as they are today. 
Perhaps it is time we produced an omnibus education Act which covers all the principles that are in these Bills and spelt them out and then each year made proper appropriations in a different form of legislation. The machinery of the Parliament is now getting to the stage where it is unable to cope with the necessities of decent public debate. 
Labor's revolution covered a number of fields. Firstly, we stressed the need to deal with the needs of the community for education and we placed needs at the top of the list. The first area of assistance was to go to people who had the greatest need. However we also did other things which were relatively revolutionary. We undertook to support people in initiatives in the schools. One of the unnoted and, I think, not highly enough regarded areas was that related to the innovation programs. As far as I can tell from the figures I have been given they were economic in their administration, they were effective in the school room, in most cases, and they certainly produced a new dimension as far as the schools to which I have been attached were concerned. I hope nothing will be done to reduce that area of initiative. 
The other thing that we stressed was the priority of education in the Australian scene. During our period in office the vote for education exceeded the vote for defence for the first time in our history. I am a fairly optimistic sort of person, as honourable members opposite would be aware. I was one of those people who were involved for many years in education debates in this House. I used to say that the time would come when education would take as high a priority as anything else and I used to quote the defence figures. I did not expect to see the parliamentary day when it actually happened but it has happened and on the whole, give or take a few bits of hypocrisy here and there, honourable members opposite have accepted the same principles. 
One of the revolutions for which I think we were responsible was free university education and I hope that honourable members opposite who may have had the advantage of it or whose children may have had the advantage of it will protect it. I regard it as a great social advance. I am the first to admit that great debate was generated not only in the ranks of my own Party but also, I guess, throughout the community generally when it was suggested that universities were for a special son of people. On the whole, it was the advantaged people who got there. From my own experience, of course, I know that that is not the case. From the experience of the people whom I represent, I know that that is not the case. We opened the doors of Australian universities to thousands of students who would have been denied admission if we had not taken that action. 
One of the features of our regime, of course, was the consistent attacks made on everything that we- did. It was not necessary for our opponents to be specific. They only had to say that there was enormous waste in the education programs. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  as he does now, only had to talk in generalities. I heard him one day talk about the 'mad extravagance' of the Labor Government. What exactly did he mean by that? If we transfer that phrase to the education system, does he mean that the money that went to the Hamilton High School in his electorate was wasted? Does the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr 
Bourchier), who is trying to interject, mean that all the money that went into his electorate by any means whatever to education institutions was wasted? Of course he did not mean that. I think honourable members opposite did Australian education a great deal of damage. 
Now I turn my mind to the Bills which are before us, to the principles which are espoused and to the fact that one has a brief opportunity only in this debate to take part in the discussion on education. I want to see whether the programs are continuing with the effort upon which we embarked to remove the great disadvantages from Australian education. In what way will the financial programs which are spelt out in these Bills remove the inequalities in Australian education? Some of these inequalities were spelt out by my friend, the honourable member for Fremantle, my colleague, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  and also the honourable member for Franklin. 
Great disabilities exist among the States. There is great disability in education opportunity if one lives in certain areas of Queensland. There is also disability in opportunities and effort between suburb and suburb. I represent 2 industrial suburbs of Melbourne. They do not get the same sorts of educational advantages as do people who live in some of the other areas. There are all sorts of historical reasons for that state of affairs. There are also sheer physical difficulties involved in trying to replace and rebuild schools in electorates such as mine. Disabilities flow from city to country and country to city. I notice that some of these disabilities are being taken up here. Unfortunately assistance is almost completely confined to programs for non-Government schools. There are inequalities in the areas of sex, economic status and race. This is particularly so for Aboriginal people and migrants. 
As has been spelt out on apprenticeship, the Australian educational system is still too conservative and too slow to change. There is probably still too much centralism in it. This brings me to indicate where I think the Commonwealth can be most effective. Our task as an Australian Government is to remove the disabilities which flow to people because they live on one part of the continent and not on another. I think a general philosophy which may well be espoused by all political parties is that, wherever one lives on this continent, one is entitled to advantages equal to those enjoyed by others living on the continent. So, it is only the Australian Government which can achieve that end. 
It is our duty to set programs in train which will open new horizons in education. I suppose that this is the moment to establish the system to encourage people to take up new programs which will force these developments and which will initiate change in the relevant direction. Our education system is basically much as it was 30 years or 40 years ago. Perhaps the internal workings of the schools are a little less authoritarian. In some ways, perhaps, professionalism in the classroom is not as good as -it was when most honourable members in the House attended school. But I think that is changing as programs of teacher training and continuing education have increased over the last few years. 
There is only one way in which we can bring a proper drive and real dynamics to education and that is through a Commonwealth input. All State instrumentalities are bound up in the conservatism of their arrangements, in the centralism by which they are controlled and through the whole basic arrangements of the education system. It is only by taking financial initiatives and by allowing them to be developed through individual schools that we will generate enough attitudes towards change which result in Australian schools becoming appropriate in outlook for the next couple of decades. After 2 1 years in the Parliament I am convinced that it is from the Commonwealth only that we can expect that initiative. 
We may get quite radical developments through various areas of the State system. On the whole, as I see it, in various parts of Victorian education, there have been more radical developments and more progressive attitudes than there have been in most of the rest of Australia. I think that in its general education program South Australia has been more progressive and has geared itself better to the future than have most of the other States. But it is a patchy development. It is only through curriculum development programs, by grants for innovation programs and by special attacks upon the disadvantages areas of education and so on that we will overcome these problems or get anywhere near overcoming them. As I look at the legislation before us and see the whole battery of it, and as I have listened to the speeches on it, I have not seen anything flowing through the proposals except in odd spots a real recognition of what these difficulties are. I think it is time that we all recognised that the Commonwealth can no longer talk about States' duties in these matters. Every citizen has rights and every State has duties rather than rights. 
-The States are simply part of the corporate structure of society. As governors and governments they have no rights. They have duties to people. People who talk about State rights are incipient fascists. I know that the honourable member for Bendigo is not. Sometimes I think he is a real one. But that is not what he meant by his interjection. But the fact is that to talk about the rights of governments is to deny what we are here about. Our duty to the Australian school and the Australian child is just as overwhelming and demanding as is that of any State government. It is our job to intervene in those areas where we think the States are not making the distance. There is no doubt in my mind that the Australian State education systems are totally inadequate in administering new schemes. During the life of our Government we 'found that very little was done for the disadvantaged schools in my electorate. I do not know where all the money went which was put into the Victorian education scheme. I know that most of the schools in my electorate were on the list of disadvantaged schools for various areas. I know that they were all overloaded with migrants and that they had other problems in education. I know that very little of that money flowed to them even though people such as myself had been responsible in a large measure for the creation of the Australian Labor Party policies on education. 
So, in relation to the point being made here about non-Government schools, it seems to me that the theme is to place more reliance on nonGovernment schools. Perhaps I should say that more thought is given for non-Government schools than is given for Government schools. We adopt the attitude that Government schools are somebody else's responsibility. In my electorate there is a number of schools which need rebuilding completely. I shall cite two, namely, Moreland High School and Brunswick Technical School. It seems to me that the Victorian Department of Public Works and Department of Education have no capacity whatsoever to take up this challenge. Both schools are built on very small areas. Moreland with, I think, 700 or 800 students, or a few more, is a most progressive school. It has an area available of approximately one and a quarter acres. Brunswick Technical School has perhaps 2 acres for 500 or 600 day students with hundreds more under the apprenticeship scheme. There is nowhere to rebuild on that land while the schools are still occupied. So, there is a very difficult challenge which is continually ignored by the Victorian Government. 
However, if we developed a program for direct assistance to Government schools, as we have for non-Government schools, we could call upon the initiative of the people on the school councils. There is no reason on earth why the school councils which administer- or would administer if we put enough faith in them- the Moreland High School and the Brunswick Technical School could not handle the rebuilding, reequipping and remodelling of the schools as effectively as the non-Government school councils do when we make the money available to them. So I see just a glimmer of hope for a decentralisation of the school initiatives in this legislation. Perhaps I am being unduly optimistic in thinking that that is what would happen, but the time has come for us to make direct grants to the government schools, bypassing the State Departments if necessary. However, I think it would be better if we came to a continuous agreement with the States and if the programs were included in the Act in schedules of some sort. I make an appeal for a better system of parent participation and school participation, both student and teacher, in the management of government schools. We recognise that there are great difficulties involved and that the professionalism and the free movement of teachers may well be disadvantaged if we turn the schools into so many autonomous republics, but I do not think that the solution to that problem is beyond the wit of man. The principal issue over the next few years in relation to school management is the development of the schools assistance program set out in the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill and the development of greater initiatives in the schools by dealing more directly with them in a financial way. 
In conclusion, I should like to challenge a few of the thoughts which are consistently flowing around the education system. One of these thoughts- I heard it expressed only the other day- is that there are too many teachers. Have we trained too many teachers? I have great doubts about the validity of that statement. The fact is that there are enormous numbers of students in the schools who are disadvantaged in all sorts of ways. They are disadvantaged not only in the physical environment of the schools but also in their home environment, with all things that go with that. Many of the homes of Australia are perhaps a little less literate than they used to be. Therefore the child goes to school less well equipped to take up the challenge of modern education, and that applies particularly to migrant children. I do not regard it as being totally conclusive, but a lot of the evidence of the last few years has shown that there has been a collapse in the standard of what might be called literacy- the capacity to read and write and do the things for which schools train people. These people are transferring into the work force ill equipped, and I hope that we will not surrender in any way to the view that some areas of education have been adequately served and that we will maintain a continual flow of funds. 
I would simply say in respect of the first amendment that if a provision to report to Parliament is part of the Act, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has skirted around that. The Minister, of course, carries out his work according to his charter as a member of this Parliament. I want to refer to the general principles of the second amendment. The Minister assumed there was an assumption behind his statement- that in fact government schools of any State belonged to the tate Minister and that if we start to deal directly with State schools we will be offending the State Minister in respect of some proprietary interest that he has. I think it is time that we broke this mystique. The schools do not belong to the State; they do not belong to the Minister- they are simply their responsibility. It is no good passing the initiative back to most of the State systems. They are not geared to devolve authority, to decentralise the system or anything else. My own view is- and it is not necessarily specific to this clause- that if we can entrust the expenditure of funds, the management of many aspects of administration and so on to non-State schools, we can do the same in regard to the State school system. This is an interesting contradiction inside the Australian schools system. I recognise that all sorts of conflicts can develop inside the community, with the school and the community itself, if we make the system totally autonomous. But the time has long passed when the management of schools- and this theme is developing in the school councils and so on in Victoria- should have more to say and more capacity to do things. It is time that not only more initiative was laid with them but also that they took more of the responsibility. 
As I have said often before, speaking from my own experience in schools and school administration and with members of the school councils and so on, often these bodies are much better geared and equipped to carry out all sorts of operations, rebuilding programs, reconstruction programs and so on than is the education system. We will not produce any kind of equality in this country, any manner of advance in the progressive areas of education, unless we are prepared to take the bit between our teeth and do it ourselves. 
I do not know why the Minister and the Government should be so delicate about the question of coercing the State Ministers when what is being implied is that State Ministers and State departments are allowed to coerce the schools. We are not being coercive in interfering in this matter. The reverse is true. We are trying to break up the authoritarian nature of the whole Australian schools system, particularly the government schools. I am bothered if I can understand why the Government is so diffident about this. Government supporters talk about new federalism, evolving power, decentralisation and all the rest of it, but when the initiative lies directly with them, when the responsibility is here with them and the chance to do something is here with them they back off. This is one area in which these things can be done with a great deal of advantage I think to the education systems. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I take up the theme from the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  who perhaps overstressed the gloom of the industry in the speech which he made to the House. It is true that the dairy industry in Australia, as in the rest of the world, is in trouble. We are dealing with the question of research. If we look at the report of the Dairying Research Committee we find that it covers an immense range of activities in the scientific area. Although the Committee is charged with research in the economic area, I do not see all that much evidence of such research in the report or the results of that research. It is that aspect to which I wish to address myself. The facts are that we are living in a world in which the dairying industry is essential. In this debate I represent the consumers rather than the producers. It is important to the people whom I represent that the products of the dairy farm be available at an economic price. It is important to their social and political philosophy that the people who produce that milk do so with reasonable comfort and with reasonable returns. So, we are speaking about a product which is essential and regarded as a vital food. 
We are speaking about an industry which is in trouble in an economic sense. We are speaking about a product which is needed by many people in the world. About 1000 million people will go to bed hungry tonight because they lack this product. So, I suggest that the economic charter of the Dairying Research Committee should receive more attention. We are speaking about an industry which I think is basically efficient. My association with the industry came, of course, through being Minister for the Capital Territory for a couple of years. I was faced with the problem of reorganising the consumer end of the dairying industry in this city. Let me say a word of two on behalf of Australian primary industry. I think it is efficient and becoming increasingly more efficient. I will not write any charters or guarantees, of course, for the political philosophy of many of the people on the farms. But the facts are that statistics show that, although the number of cows in production is falling, the amount of milk they are producing is increasing. In general, although it is not absolute from year to year, the productivity of each cow on an average is rising. It has done so from 1968-69 when 2300 litres was produced to 1972-73 when 2600 litres was produced, as shown in the latest statistics available. 
I think it is a good thing for people to consider the dairy industry and its relative efficiency, particularly in the marketing area. In this city milk is now costing 1 7c or 1 8c for what used to be a pint. It is brought to the city from hundreds of miles away. Some of the milk sold in Canberra comes from the other side of Wodonga. It is produced on the farm, transported to Albury, bulk handled, reprocessed, brought to Canberra and processed again, put through the whole system, put into bottles and delivered to the doorstep 6 nights a week for about 17c or 18c- for what the Post Office tells us is the cost of delivering a letter. In this case one gets the milk, the bottle and the lot for the price of the delivery of a letter. I have no real complaints about the general efficiency of the postal system, but if one considers the immense amount of effort in the production of milk, and the health requirements involved in the transport and processing of milk one will see that that aspect of the dairy industry is very efficient. The citizens who consume the milk ought to be grateful for that. 
A good deal of the efficiency comes from the orderly marketing processes. It has been a long and tortuous process to get orderly marketing into any part of Australian primary industry. I think the first moves towards having a levy or a research system in the dairy industry started in 1958. That did not become a reality until about 1972. As my colleague the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  remarked, this is not a levy, it is an investment. There are 2 points I want to make. First, I think that much more research and much more effort must be put into finding ways of processing milk and marketing overseas that processed milk. There is no doubt in my mind, following my travels overseas and visits to underprivileged parts of the world, that processed milk which can be reprocessed at the other end into full milk is an important contribution Australia can make. We have not resolved the general problems, although the Dairy Board has made some effort in some parts of South East Asia. We should not allow ourselves to be conned out of a system simply because our competitors in Europe use all sorts of rather underhand economic exercises in order to get their products on the market. I hope that in the next report we will see some evidence from the research committee that it has examined this aspect. 
The other point I want to make relates to the economics of the farm itself. I do not have at hand any figures on what the capitalisation of his farm is costing the average farmer, but I presume that at current interest rates, if people have $30,000 or $40,000 on mortgage they are paying $3,000 or $4,000 a year in interest-that is $60 to $70 a week- before they start. Somehow we have to find a better method of financing the people in primary production, as indeed we finance other productions. If this were a normal company operation with an investment of $250,000 there would probably be equity shares and people would receive dividends in accordance with the profit made. Unfortunately, in the private farming area most of the capital has to come from very high interest areas, and I believe that that is one of the killers of the system. 
I suggest that the Committee turn its attention to the question of financing the farmer, financing the marketing and processing of milk for overseas, particularly for the underprivileged parts of the world. I would remind the House that there is always the possibility that unless we solve some of the problems associated with financial arrangements on the farm, more and more people will go out of the dairy industry. One of the prophecies which was made at the inquiry held here in Canberra was that in the future we could easily be short of milk as greater opportunities were offered for more economic crops on farmland. The farmers would go out of dairying and into something else and we could end up being out of milk because the farms had gone out of dairy production. I made the suggestion at the time to some of the people involved in the industry that we ought to buy the farms and ensure that they are always used for milk production. They looked upon that suggestion as one of the more dangerous elements of my political philosophy, but I think that it is a logical thing to do. 
I would not blame them because I do not expect people involved in that part of the industry who support the Country Party to do any logical or constructive thinking. In this city we see the benefits and advantages of government ownership and control of the land so that its usage can be guaranteed. I am not suggesting that we ought to run the farms, but we ought to have enough farms to ensure that there is a continuous supply of land for milk production. I will hand over now to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  who is obviously champing at the bit, if that is what one does in a dairy industry debate. I suggest that those 3 areas of research ought to get much more attention than they have hitherto received. 
I suppose it is something when a Queensland member talks semi-favourably about land rights for Aboriginal people. For the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to come here and talk to honourable members on this side of the House and even to most of his colleagues as if he had suddenly seen the light and the rest of us had not is a piece of absolute nonsense. However, late learner that he is, slow mover that he is, we are glad to have him on our side even if it is only partially. 
The honourable member started by saying that we on the Opposition side have a number of hates. He said that we hate the Country Party. We do not hate the Country Party. We just would not trust it politically with anything to do with human rights, particularly Aboriginal rights. We do not hate the miners. We recognise, like everybody else, that a great number of the things which make life possible come out of the ground. But we believe that the mining industry has been one of the great vandals of history. One has only to go to Captain's Flat, not so far from here, to see what has to be done about miners to keep them in order. That need be considered only against, say, the public enterprise of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria in its Yallourn fields to see what the difference is. The Opposition does not hate the miners but we know full well that the mining industry has to be brought under very close scrutiny and control, particularly where human rights are concerned. We feel that they ought not to be let loose on the problem at all. 
The same applies to this Government. It stands against most of the things which we, on this side of the House, stand for. It stands against the people for whom we stand. It is denying most of the promises on which it was elected only 12 months ago. With regard to the Bill, my friend opposite says that it should have rational discussion and should be seen in terms of its details. Two of the Bills before the House, the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill and the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill are of a fundamental importance to the Aboriginal people of Australia. They are both big steps towards giving the Aboriginal people a proper place in this community. But how are we going to talk about these things in detail? We know the stumbling way in which the legislation has been brought into the Parliament and put on the notice paper and taken off again. Now we have this Bill with its 73 clauses on 38 pages and the 43 amendments brought in today. How is anyone going to understand it at this stage? With a proper respect for the intellectual capacity, at east when it comes to trying to obscure issues, of my friend the honourable member for Lilley, how would he know anything about it either? So I resent the fact that the debate on these issues is to be shortened. However, I hope that we will be able to deal with the details when we come to them at the Committee stage. 
We are debating a matter of great national importance. As my friend said, it is an introduction of a new sense of law and order. This legislation has been drifting into this Parliament for at least the last 13 years- I suppose since the discussion and debate on the Yirrkala question nearly 14 years ago back in 1963. It is 12 months or more since we introduced this matter into the House. It is getting on for 4 years since  Mr Justice  Woodward was appointed to look into the matter. It is a long time- 3 years or longer- since he brought down his first report. Although I have a proper respect for the intentions behind the legislation I would say this: It has been hesitant in getting here; the Government has been reluctant in bringing it in. We know that there is a great deal of opposition from people in the National Country Party. We know that people in the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory will do their best to sabotage the legislation. We know that much of the apparatus in this Bill is tentative; and that the attitudes expressed in it will be altered as time goes on. I add that the procedures here have been confusing. We will have little time in this debate to talk about the councils. But I appreciate the fact that at long last the legislation has arrived in this arena. I think it was one of the last things that I sent along the pipeline when I was the Minister 3 years ago. I recognise the fact that the delay in the introduction of the legislation concerning councils is no reflection on anybody; neither do I lay too many charges of undue delay in respect of the land rights legislation as I recognise the great difficulty that is involved in drafting such legislation. Before I conclude my remarks on the speech made by my friend the honourable member for Lilley I would like to mention 2 mattersthe question of parliamentary supervision and scrutiny of this legislation and the way it will work. We now have a perfectly good committee of this House concerned with Aboriginal affairs. It has a perfectly good  chairman  as long as he is given strong guidance. I think that we should perhaps increase the number of members on the Committee. However, we should not create another one. 
I would like to say a word on behalf of  Mr Eames  from the Northern Territory who has remarked on the legislation and was criticised by the honourable member for Lilley. He is deeply involved in the land rights question and, I have no doubt, in the whole operation of Aboriginal advancement. He is a man who is giving great and dedicated service. He would know much more about this matter than my friend the honourable member for Lilley or myself, and his suspicions are relevant because he lives in the area in which one necessarily must be suspicious of many of the people who will have a part in trying to make decisions about this operation. One does not do anybody any good by pouring scorn upon the people who work in Aboriginal affairs. This has been too much of a theme in recent times. 
I think it might be worthwhile to remind honourable members how we have got here. It has been a long haul. In 1967 the people of Australia overwhelmingly said to the Australian Government: 'Get on with the job of Aboriginal advancement'. I think that a referendum on this question was passed by something like 90 per cent in Victoria and 88 per cent or 89 per cent throughout Australia. There were perhaps only 2 or 3 polling booths in Australia that did not carry a majority vote. What that meant was that this Parliament has no right whatsoever to abdicate its responsibility in respect of land rights and hand any control, any possibility of interference, over to any State government or particularly to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. We speak here of the most overwhelming vote that any proposition in Australia has ever received. It is a job for this Parliament and this Parliament alone. We shall deal directly with the Aboriginal people and maintain that position. When the time comes to amend it we will go back to it. So I make a strong appeal that we do not put any faith whatsoever in, or pass any of our responsibilities whatsoever to, the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I make the same appeal so far as the State governments are concerned because we speak here on a national issue. We must not at any point allow local parochial interests to intervene. It is one of the facts of parliamentary life that we in this arena can speak with less fear of immediate interference from small groups of people than can our colleagues in the State parliaments and municipal councils. But I say that this is a question for the nation and it can be dealt with only by the national Parliament 
As I have said, it has been a long haul. When I hear my friend the honourable member for Lilley almost spraining his elbows and bis arms to pat himself and the Government on the back in this matter I am reminded of the long history of colonial peoples in the world and the efforts of people, even such strange people and nondemocrats as George III, to try to ensure that people should get their proper rights. The Spanish 'Laws of the Indies' of 11 June 1S94 stated: 
We command that the farms and lands which may be granted to Spaniards be so granted without prejudice to the Indians . . . 
Then we come to what George III had to say in 1763. One would have thought that my friend the honourable member for Lilley would have caught up to 1763. He said: 
And whereas it is just and reasonable, and essential to our interest, and the security of our colonies, that the several nations or tribes of Indians with whom we are connected, and who live under our protection, should not be molested or disturbed in the possession of such parts of our dominions . . . 
That well known leading radical who would probably even spurn the National Country Party as being too reactionaryGeorge III, King of Great Britain in 1763. This reference can be found in the Library. For the benefit of my friend the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  the Library is that room off Kings HaU. The doors are often open. He can find his way in there. He should go and have a look at the documents there. The document from which I am reading is entitled  The Instruments of British Policy 1763-1765.  The almost wistful commands of the British monarchy 2 centuries ago are spelt out there. They said much the same to Governor Phillip. They said: 'You will conciliate their affections'. They said much the same to Cook. They said: 
You are also with the Consent of the Natives to take possession of Convenient Situations in the Country in the Name of the King . . . 
He was told that he was to take possession of the land with the consent of the natives. This was a continuing theme. How long must it go on before we accept it as a strong principle? On 19 February 1836 the following direction was issued in respect of South Australia provided always that nothing in these our Letters Patent contained shall affect or be construed to affect the rights of any Aboriginal Natives of the said Province to the actual occupation or enjoyment of their own persons ... of any lands . . . 
So we are here at last. How far has it brought us? First of all, what about the rest of Australia? What about the questions of compensation? What about the answers in this legislation to the threats from the mining industry? If we must talk about these things let us talk frankly. The history of the mining industry and this Parliament in association with Aboriginal communities is a sad one. Let us consider the case of the Yirrkala people. I was on the committee that examined the grievances of these people. We went to Yirrkala, we sat out under the trees and we talked to the Aboriginal people. We had been assured beforehand that all the Aboriginal people had been consulted, that they knew what it was all about. But of course they did not and they could not. So their land was taken from them. We now have this huge development from which many people I presume are making immense gains; and, in regard to royalties, in a certain way, so too are the Aboriginal people. But honourable members opposite should take a trip there and see the difference between the living conditions of Aboriginal people on their land and the living conditions of the non-Aboriginal people on what used to be Aboriginal land. Now we see the threat to the people of Oenpelli We know what has happened on Groote Eylandt even though I believe that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has played the game pretty fairly. We know what is happening now to Aurukun. We know what has happened to Weipa. The facts are that the social impact of development by mining companies on Aboriginal communities is of such immensity that the Aboriginal communities cannot handle it and we do now know how to help them to handle it. 
This is one area where we must mark time. That is why, for my own purpose, I would say in this instance that we should give no consideration to anybody else's rights, whether national or otherwise, to go and mine land at all, until the Aboriginal people can handle the impact. Mining companies are not the only threat to the lands of the Aboriginal people. There is the sacred matter of development and the roads that must run through Aboriginal lands- I think they will be declared public land- and what that means. There is always the continuing pressure of the pastoralists. There are always the social pressures. One question that we will have to consider very deeply, as will whichever committee happens to be charged with the responsibility and whichever Minister may be charged with the responsibility, is how Aboriginal people handle propositions that are put before them. They are an honest and straightfoward people, unaccustomed to dealing with the roughness of our modern commercial and industrial practices. People who have something on offer and who want to mine the land say to the Aborigines: 'We will pay you this much money and we will do that much for you'. In the common ordinary language of our times, I suppose it is very easy to be conned. The Aborigines have always found themselves in the sad position that their defenders often had to be the people who were also selling them out. We have to do something to protect them against the possibility of being persuaded into getting rid of their rights for the time being. 
I see this legislation still with a partly open mind. In other words, I believe that these amendments may answer some of the questions we are putting to the House; but I have my doubts. Is this just a ritual piece of legislation or is it for real? It cannot be for real, if the Legislative Assembly is to be left in the act. I would not care if it were the New South Wales Government, the Victorian Government or the South Australian Government. This is not their function. In matters of land rights and the advancement of the Aboriginal people, particularly the protection of this fundamental principle, this Parliament must accept the full responsibility. Only this Parliament can be the adequate continuing watchdog. I hope that we will remove such clauses from the Bill. 
Let us think for a moment of what we mean by ownership'. In the 20-odd years since I first became involved in Aboriginal rights we have had lots of discussion. First of all some Aboriginal people said that what they wanted was land like everybody else has- freehold land. It is a reasonable enough proposition that people should want land for themselves, but of course it is not reasonable if one is taking land in trusteeship for the rest of time. In a way the time has come for us to think of some new word. As one who was responsible for administering Canberra for a couple of years, I continuously ran into the conflict between people about freehold, leasehold and so on- the kind of title by which people hold land. We are talking of traditional lands, traditional usage and the traditional people who should have the land. I do not think we can define this in any of the terms known to the English language. Perhaps we should have some original legislation called the Aboriginal Domains Act, or something of that sort, lifted out of the ordinary context in which we think of land. It is very difficult for us to think of land as not being something which can be bought and sold. I take it that the legislation, no matter how much it is amended or altered, will ensure that people cannot trade in the land. I think that is fundamental. We are trustees of the land. The Aboriginal people to whom we are passing the land will be trustees for future generations, just as they are the heirs of the countless generations who preceded them. 
I hope that in the Committee stage of this Bill we will see the matter as a communal exercise. I recognise the difficulties that my colleagues opposite may well have. They have advanced a long way in the last ten or fifteen years. We are not trying to create a new nation. We are not trying to create Bantustans, apartheid or anything like that. We have to give the Aboriginal people a place in this continent which they feel is absolutely theirs. It is a psychological and spiritual need. I recall that one of the missionaries in Yirrkala, when giving evidence to our Committee, said that the Aborigines do not use the land and that they do not have a sense of ownership. He said that they get spiritual refreshment from passing across it. I think that many other Australians are starting to feel much the same way about their environment. Therefore, to people such as myself this is a fairly historic moment. We have been associated with Aboriginal rights from the very beginning. I recall that in 1963 1 personally took action in the court in Darwin to stop a mining development. It did not earn me all that many cheers in this House.  Sir Paul  Hasluck-  Mr Hasluck,  as he then was- tried to have me removed from a select committee because of my action. However, we eventually came to an armistice and we have proceeded along this path. I am sorry that we have not time to debate the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill and the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill. I appeal to honourable members to examine these matters thoroughly in the Committee stage. The Minister, who already has shown a capacity to change his attitude, his ideas and his wordage, may well, under our guidance, do even better. 
-First of all, let us examine what it is proposed to do. Aboriginal councils can be formed where 10 adult Aborigines living in a particular area desire that an Aboriginal council be formed in respect of that area. They may apply in writing, and so on. The legislation then provides that they shall be able to perform functions or services in respect of such matters as housing, health, sewerage, water supply, electricity, communications, education, relief work, roads and associated works, garbage collection and disposal, and welfare and community amenities. As a result of this legislation, that group of people will be able to administer its own affairs. Let us imagine one of the smaller communities with 5 or 6 families living on the fringe of a town in Queensland. They decide to form a council. They get their charter and they are in business. They make a by-law about the size of the garbage tins and the way the lids shall be fitted. The council having done that, the by-law comes to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  It passes through the long tortuous path of the various echelons of the Department and eventually reaches the Minister. Bless me, it is then knighted, one might say. It is brought into the chamber, not only into this chamber but also into the Senate. I do not know why the Minister does not include in this Bill the necessity for the by-law to be approved by the Governor-General-in-Council. 
This is an unnecessary intrusion into the affairs and the administration of the system. I do not think that any of the town councils which are developing in the Northern Territory are handled in this way. It may well be reasonable for such matters to be reported to the Minister and for somebody to keep an eye on the system to make sure that no civil rights are transgressed. I take it that that is the general rule for municipalities throughout Australia. In a way, this provision trespasses on the spirit upon which this legislation has been developed. This is a very important piece of legislation. It represents the efforts of both the previous Government and this Government to extract the Aboriginal people from underneath the umbrellas that have been put over them in various parts of Australia. For instance, I hope that the communities in Queensland will take the greatest possible advantage of this legislation and start to develop a life and style of their own. 
In many ways it is a very adventurous piece of legislation in that it deals not only with matters of geography but also with groups of people who are social units rather than geographic units and who will be able to form themselves into councils. One of the great difficulties from which the Aboriginal people have suffered is their inability to become involved in community development in their own way. I wonder how many Aboriginal people are members of municipal councils in Australia? I think there might be one or two but I do not know that I have ever met them. They are a group of people who are naturally on the edge of things socially and in relation to community development. I hope that the Minister will have another look at this matter. When the Bill gets to the other place, we will give him a second opportunity to consider this matter by moving another amendment. 
I would be with the Minister if I thought that there was any point in this provision, but I do not think that there is any point. The Aboriginal people are saying about almost everything we do: 'But you do not apply that rule to nonAboriginal communities.' One of the arguments they put in relation to land was this: 'The ordinary Australian owns his land in this way. That is the way we want to do it. The average Australian does not have to go through this sort of program. Why should we have to do it?' The situation here is that we ought not to produce in legislation, particularly adventurous legislation attempting to create a new social environment for the Aboriginal people, trappings which we do not have in other legislation. 
My own belief is that we need a little more faith and a little less supervision of this nature. I do not really object to the notifications coming through to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs so that he can look at them.  His  staff might even do it for him. I take it he does some of the work himself. Honourable members say we had better keep an eye on this matter. I am one of the people who, in some ways, has doubts about absolute rights being vested in municipalities, particularly concerning personal, freedoms and things of that nature. For instance, there have been debates in this Parliament at various times about access to Aboriginal communities. It has been suggested that the community itself will decide whether one may or may not visit the community. I would not like that power to lie in the hands of the local council for the area in which I live. I would like it even less to be in the hands of many other local councils I have run into. They would quite often make sure that I would never come back. 
I grant the necessity for people to be protected against infringement on their civil rights in situations such as this. I regard it as superfluous. I think my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has defined this correctly. It will look like paternalism or big brotherism, whether or not that is what it is, and the best thing that can be done is to bluepencil it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I support the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  The more information we have about the system presented to the Parliament, the better it will be. I wish to make a brief comment about a remark contained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  concerning the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. I do not think it was an advance at all to change that system. All the Government needed to do was to produce a more effective way of either servicing it, supervising it or reporting on it. This is an area in which the greatest possible flexibility is required to change, from time to time, the appUcation of funds. I regard this as a retrogressive step, no matter who thought of it first. In this case I think that the report should cover the matters raised by my colleague the honourable member for Hughes. Just for once, some personal inititive should be shown instead of rubber stamping somebody else 's decisions. 
-Whilst I might be what one might call the permanent Parliamentary optimist, I do not believe that the Government will give us any adequate time next year to debate this matter. I believe it is fantasy to think that a system will be created in the next 12 to 18 months under which there will be adequate debate on these subjects. Just consider the situation today: We have before us 2 major pieces of legislation, one of which covers 73 clauses I think, and the other one which carries out a significant parliamentary change, equally as complicated. We have dealt with these Bills more or less in one evening. Our experience is that the more we document matters the more chance there is of their being considered and understood. That is my first point. 
My other point is this: What on earth does it matter whether we did not put our amendment in last year's piece of legislation? It is quite obvious that if we adopted the approach of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to these things and did not do anything new, we would still be back in the caves. We can almost hear the argument at the back of the caves: 'No, we cannot go outside; we did not go out last year'. I ask the Minister to start to adopt a slightly different attitude, a more progressive attitude, to this kind of operation. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-In debating the White Paper on Defence which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  brought down a few weeks ago, I wish to refer the House to what was said in the introduction: 
The first responsibility of government is to provide the nation with security from armed attack and from the constraints on independent national decisions . . . 
The statement continues: 
This White Paper sets out the Government's position in this respect It states the Government's estimates of the circumstances that . . . could jeopardise Australia's security. 
I do not think that the Paper does that. If the Opposition has a complaint about it, it is that perhaps there is not enough precision in the White Paper. It way well be that the state of our national affairs and international relations are such that one cannot be precise, and I am prepared to admit that. I am prepared to say that it is time for an open-ended debate in which both sides of the House and the nation itself can take a close look at what this is all about and make some consequent decisions in the more distant future than today. 
One ought to say now that there is a remarkable change in the Government's position from that of the last few years. No longer do we hear of threats from the north. No longer are there battle cries resounding around this building with talk of the surging hordes up there which are going to descend upon us and demands of conscription and everything else. That is a big improvement. If one reads the Paper carefully one will see this point made quite often: No longer are we going to rely so absolutely on our great and powerful friends. But there is the constant theme that we have a new and special relationship with Indonesia. Unfortunately, the theme of the past continues with the reference to the Indian Ocean. I think that is overstated and can only confuse the debate. 
I hope that my colleagues on this side of the House will take up some of the general issues about equipment and so on which are raised in the Paper. At this stage of the debate I wish to make it clear to the House and to the rest of the nation that the consistent attacks upon the Labor Government's defence policies are quite erroneous. The attacks are good political ploys but completely ignore the facts of the situation. The facts are that the Labor Government set the defence forces of Australia and the whole defence establishment upon a very solid course of progress. Although we were not responsible for buying the FI 1 1 aircraft, the Cabinet of which I was a member finally had to make the decision whether to proceed with it or not, and we did so. Whether the Fill is the most appropriate aircraft for us could well be open to doubt, but there is no doubt whatsoever that in acquiring it we gave the Air Force a pretty effective set of teeth. 
I come now to the Leopard tanks. We ordered 63 of them in April 1974 and 34 more in August last year. That was another Labor initiative. We ordered two of the Perry class patrol frigates back in 1974. We ordered 8 new Orions, 12 new 
Hercules and Rapier missiles. Something which seems to have passed unnoticed by the recipients themselves, if one takes any notice of their election voting habits, is that the Labor Government gave the servicemen of Australia a completely new deal. In 1974 we put $330m into new equipment and $2 80m in 197S. I think this White Paper refers to something like $2S0m, and that is going to be spent on Labor initiatives. I think that the record ought to be kept straight. In its 3 years in office the Labor Government took very effective steps towards the maintenance of an effective defence capacity in this country. 
I should like to address myself to what I call the defence problems. We have now reached a stage where it is an intellectual rather than a strategic exercise. We have to find out where we are going, what it is all about and what is the new defence environment and foreign policy environment. We have to look at the nation in various ways. We have to overcome the national inferiority complex. We have to understand now that the world looks at this part of the planet in a different way. The Timor exercise has shown that the rest of the world will leave us to make our own decisions. They are not going to bother over much about what goes on in this part of the world. So Australia is challenged to think for itself, probably for the first time since about 1910 or 191 1 when the first Labor Government established new defence priorities and new defence policies. We now have to think for ourselves. Fortunately, we can take our time about most of it. We can take our time about the kind of equipment that we need in this environment. We can take our time about the answer to the challenge; it is a completely new challenge. No longer can we look at a situation where we are going to be part of a regular scheme of international conflict in which we supply one part of the forces in one part of one of the theatres. We have to look at Australia as a continental theatre, as a nation facing a challenge on its own, perhaps being very much on its own and having to be very selfsufficient. I do not think that the Paper answers those questions. I do not think it even poses them strongly enough for the general reader. 
While we are taking our time about decisions in relation to aircraft and other forms of equipment, we have to maintain the continuing establishments. We must keep industry at the stage where it can continue to supply the Australian forces. We have to keep the people who are concerned with defence, whether m a civilian capacity or in the forces themselves, on the alert and ready, properly equipped mentally and in every other way, so that they know they will not be left behind in any great change. The first question we have to ask ourselves is this: what is Australia's capacity to be self-contained? I do not think this is spelled out enough in the Paper. Perhaps we do not know enough about it. I have always believed, and I have said it here many times, that Australia underrates its own capacity to do for itself, both in the construction of equipment and in relation to defending itself. This country has a very large industrial base- the ninth or tenth largest in the world or thereabouts. In some areas we are quite significant, and even in such things as the automotive industry we are ninth or tenth in the world. 
It is part of the continuing theme of Australian conversation to look at our defence forces and underrate them. We are inclined to overlook the fact that in sheer numbers we may not be so very large, but in the actual equipment which is available to our defence forces, by comparison with the equipment of most of the other nations of the world, and I exclude the very large nations, we are well able to look after our own. Perhaps the next stage of the Paper ought to spell out this question more emphatically so that the community can turn its mind to it. 
We have to look more emphatically at our own immediate environment. Our largest neighbour of course is Indonesia. The Government has chosen to make our relationship with Indonesia pre-eminent in both its foreign affairs and its defence policies. I do not think we can rely upon the Government of Indonesia, nor do I think we need to be unduly afraid of Indonesia, but we do have to ask ourselves what we would do if Indonesia's next step were to do something about Papua New Guinea. Let us presume that Indonesia considered the situation in Papua New Guinea to be so unstable that it was a threat to them, and from what Indonesia has said about Timor I can imagine it doing that. What would Australia do? How would we prepare for that? We have never faced up to the fact that we ought to be able to take part in United Nations operations. 
Could I just examine for a moment some of the problems involved. In relation to the equipment problem, what is the score at sea? A continuing debate is going on throughout the whole system of international defence about what is needed at sea. What is the best thing to have at sea? Basically, I regard the question of discovering submarines in the waters off Australia, as I suppose would most people, as a scientific problem, one to which we have not found the answer but one to which Australians on the whole have been able to attend with as much success as anybody else. In the course of this debate I would like to pay a tribute to the Australian defence science and its ancillary services in private industry with regard to the capacity to challenge and take up some of these issues. There is, I think, a very great under-considered strength in the Australian scientific base which ought to be given more money, more resources and more capacity to research these issues. 
With regard to sea defence, we do not know what the equipment ought to be. Should we have more carriers of the sort of HMAS  Melbourne"!  Should we take up the opportunities that are available to implement the use of vertical take-off aircraft, such as the Harrier? I doubt whether we have applied ourselves enough to this debate. I have no doubt that this debate has been going on pretty thoroughly within the defence Services but, in the final analysis, defence is a question for the whole community. I turn to the provision of equipment. How many of anything do we want? Let us consider for a moment the question of tanks. Australia has purchased over 100 Leopard tanks. There would be sufficient for, I think, a bit more than a regiment plus reserves and things of that nature. Should we go ahead and start to manufacture our own tanks and build the number up to the 500 or 600 mark? Should we hold our industry available to do something about this matter? Is it possible to keep industry ticking over in such a way that at a given moment it has 6 or 12 months notice in which to produce these items? We are not sure. 
One of the great difficulties concerning this debate is the tendency of Australians to say: 'Oh, it is too expensive. We ought to buy them overseas'. Of course, it is not possible to buy 400 or 500 tanks overseas off the shelf like that. The same thing, I think, applies to aircraft. My own feeling is that we are showing a tendency to try to procure too much sophisticated weaponry. If we look at our environment within 3000 miles of Australia, we see no country with aircraft which would be able to take on even the Mirage. In fact, I do not suppose that there is anything that could take on the Mirage effectively. There is certainly no force within 3000 miles of Australia, as my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  pointed out, which could land on Australia's shores. I suggest that the time has come for an open-ended debate. I feel that as far as equipment is concerned Australia should hold the line. If it means retaining the kind of equipment we have rather than taking expensive new steps to acquire some of the highly expensive specialised or fighter aircraft, we should hold off. I am not sure whether it is possible to continue with the equipment we have for another ten or 15 years but industry could probably continue to manufacture some of this equipment. It is important for Australia to reserve the capacity by keeping the people at work. 
I have been a member of a sub-committee in the last few months which has been looking at these factories. I make a plea to the Government to take steps to keep them in effective continuing work. There is no way in which we can hold Australian workmen on the job if they feel they are not doing something that is worthwhile. At the present time, I would say, the greatest challenge we face in the field of defence is to maintain the industrial base and its capacity to take up the strain when we want it to and when we decide what is to be done. 
I make one final plea for a continuing and more effective study of the reserve capacity of Australian forces which lies in the civilian community. I do not think we have adequately recognised for many years the potential strength in the civilian base, or the importance of it. It we are talking about small wars, the regular forces will be adequate but if we are talking about a major war- the Armageddon, one might say- then, of course, that means a total mobilisation. We have done little enough to retain a reserve base in the community in such a way that we can deal with a potential war or take up the capacity of the Australian community. I close with the comment that we under-rate Australia's capacity. I think we must concentrate more on developing selfsufficiency in every part of the defence area and put a lot more faith in the civilian capacity of Australia to support a defence effort. 
-Am I to understand that this legislation is to proceed through the House forthwith and into the other place without proper consideration? I make it quite clear that I might agree with this legislation or I might not but I do not agree with the procedure and I will tell the House why. We are putting into the hands of people who last year broke every tradition in the book, who stole power in this country against all the traditions of parliamentary government, the right to refuse in courts to produce documents and all the rest. However that is by the way and I would not have said it except for interjections from honourable members on the Government side. The fact is that here we have a complicated piece of legislation which I do not claim to understand. I know full well that the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  has no idea what it is about. Over centuries we have designed the way in which parliamentary business should be handled, particularly matters which determine people's rights and freedoms, so I do not think that we ought to do this. There could have been earlier indications to members of this Parliament that this matter was coming on and if it is so urgent we could have been issued with a memorandum earlier in the day. Honourable members of this Parliament represent one of the few parliamentary institutions in the world that is basically democratic in its processes and democratic in its elections. They ought to remember what democracy is all about. 
There are several issues that I do not follow. If it is true that courts in America need some evidence that is in this country to protect some process of the law which we would recognise there, why do we not co-operate? I do not think this mystique of sovereignty is all that important. I recognise, and I take it that this is recognised in this legislation, that there are forces at work in this world that transcend the power of governments; that the International Telegraph and Telephone Company, General Motors, and other large corporations based in Europe, Japan and America are able to manipulate world affairs and defeat governments. 
-I suppose the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  was elected to this place because the people in Western Australia - 
-I refer the honourable member to history. The fact is that this legislation will, perhaps, allow these people to continue to do as they have been doing. I am not sure. It is all very well to sit here and allow this matter to proceed with undue haste just because we have been approached by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  to allow that course to be adopted, but there are countless pieces of legislation dealing with the social advantage of the people of Australia which are not being proceeded with. They are held up for weeks on end. Therefore I want a better explanation. I am not going to call for divisions or anything of that nature. Only on two or 3 occasions since I was elected to this House has legislation of this order been brought in and there have been requests for it to be rushed through. I might say that I objected on those occasions. After all, this Bill hands great authority into the care of the Attorney-General. As I understand it from what my colleague the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said a while ago this Bill relates to power to prevent the courts doing something that would be possible under State Acts. Is that the case? 
Wait a bit. I am asking for information. If the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  knows all about it he can make the next speech and explain it. Is it a fact that this Bill aims to prevent the passage of documents or information as a result of a request to a New South Wales court? 
Wait a bit. Is it a request to a New South Wales court? 
Well who made the request? That is the case, is it not? Is it or is it not? 
What was the request? 
-I will not sit down until I have had my say. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has attempted to sit me down and stop me having a say all the time he has been here but he has not been successful yet. 
I have just one or two things to say. Earlier the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  said that this legislation was in the national interest and that he was surprised that I was not supporting it. I want to say quite clearly now that I consider the processes of this Parliament, its right to the proper scrutiny of legislation and the duty of its membership to examine every piece of legislation which affects the rights and freedoms of citizens as much more important than defeating Westinghouse. 
I wish the right honourable gentleman a very quick return to his duties. When he comes back and when he deals with sickness and other benefits I hope he remembers the generosity of the House. I hope he starts to apply those benefits to all Australians instead of trying to chisel them out of the benefits. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-In supporting my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  I would like to say first that I think it is sound procedure that the Bill be reprinted in this way. There seems to be a continuing series of muddles when this Government handles legislation of any complicated nature. This is in the almost continuing theme of the Medibank situation. This operation was commenced last year while we were in government. The legislation after being before the House was taken away, redrafted, then amended, then redrafted and then more amendments were made. One of the quaint things about Australian politics is the way this Government managed before it came into power to make it look as though it were a model of efficiency. All I can say is that it is a model for muddling. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill presented by  Mr Viner,  and read a first time. 

 -Mr Chairman, I cannot understand why the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  wants to hold up passage of clause 70. This clause has to do with entry on to land. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has said that everybody is in agreement that this land ought to be under control of the Aboriginal people. Yet we find that the Government proposes to suspend clause 70 so that the proclamation enacting this legislation may go forward. I think that, in a way, this action will emasculate the Bill. Why is it that we must wait now after 13 years or more since the first shots were fired on land rights in this Parliament? The honourable member for the Northern Territory will forgive us if, on this side of the Committee, we have a reasonable suspicion that the National Country Party is not all that dedicated to the principle of land rights for Aboriginal people. The honourable member may forgive us, then, if we think that the Legislative of the Northern Territory is not a reliable protector of those interests. 
-One of the reasons why I say that emphatically is the behaviour in the past of people like the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  on these matters. He has always acted as though the land rights of Aboriginal people could be transcended, for instance, by miners. I think the real issue here is the timing of the legislation. What is the point of legislation being brought forward here in relation to matters which have been under consideration for so long and which have been before the Parliament for so long, when the proposal now is to leave out what is an important part of that legislation? Even if for the time being there is to be no consideration of malfeasance- if that is the appropriate word- on the part of the Minister and his minions in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, that does not do the legislation any good. I wish to see the Opposition 's amendment agreed to and written into the Act so that this legislation will be proclaimed as a whole. If that happens, we will be able to get on with the job. 
A further point arises. The responsibility for the carriage and implementation of this legislation lies fairly and squarely on this Parliament. 
This is a national question to be resolved by the national Parliament. I believe that the entry of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory into this arena is an aberration of some magnitude. I hope that the Minister will take the bit between his teeth and ensure that all of the contents of the Bill are proclaimed as an Act at the same time. 
I want to take up the point made by my friend the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  and to offer a proper apology to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  If I have said untrue things, or have misinterpreted what he said in the past and have offended him, I am sorry. Apparently he does not use the English language adequately. As far as we are concerned, this piece of legislation has to be taken as a whole. The legislation will be mangled if clause 70 is not brought into operation at the same time as the Act is proclaimed. There is no guarantee that the Government will get on with the job. There is no reason why clause 70 should not take effect as from the day the Act is proclaimed. I take it that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  will not take months and months to get round to the proclamation. If the Act was proclaimed tomorrow, clause 70 could come into operation. Why does he not get on with it? 
-Whilst I think that there is something in what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  says, I also think that clause 24 covers the proposal that he puts before us. Clause 24, in part, states: 
A Land Council shall compile, and maintain, a register setting out- 
the names of the persons who, in the opinion of the Council, are the traditional Aboriginal owners of Aboriginal land in the area of the Land Council; and . . . 
It is true that people may be able to go to these Aboriginal areas and talk themselves into rights to which they are not entitled. They will be able to do this while there is a register. They would be able to do that even under the honourable member's definition which accepts the register as the definition of an Aboriginal. So I think it is a cyclical argument.  Mr Chairman,  I rose really to raise a point of procedure. There are 4 amendments to this clause. I suppose that we can speak only the normal number of times- that is twice- in respect of the clause? 
-I have been working on this subject for about 20 years. The Government ought at least to let us have about ten or twelve hours in which to speak on the subject. 
-I am in full sympathy with the honourable member for Mackellar in respect of the general need to get the definition right. But I think that by trying to define the word 'Aboriginal' in a more narrow way we could end up in more trouble. It is just one of the inevitable problems that confront people wherever they try to define race or ethnic groups or anything of this nature. It is found that such a task is almost impossible to accomplish inside the ordinary terms of language. Therefore we have to rely upon registration of some sort. I believe that this requirement is adequately covered in clause 24.I would not vote for the amendment, or perhaps against it. 
-One of the more interesting pieces of materialist philosophy is what might be called the transcendental rights of mining, the sovereign rights of rnining, which are superior- in the view of people such as the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)-  to any other right of any other person in this country. 
The honourable member should listen to what I have to say. I listened with great courtesy to him, even though I thought he was preaching some materialist nonsense, as he might define it, which offended me greatly. The situation is that under this legislation we are transferring to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory the ownership, in a particular form, of the lands to which they have traditional rights, but we are not transferring the absolute rights. If over the years someone has acquired a mining right, that right is to continue untrammelled. My friend from Lilley points out that there must be no interference with the rights of renewal. I believe that that offends against the spirit of the legislation. It is not even anti-mining to say that we ought to do that. We are transferring the ownership of this land to the Aboriginal people in the same sense as we transferred the ownership of Papua New Guinea to the people of Papua New Guinea at independence. I suggest that the honourable member for Lilley would say: 'We should have retained control of the copper mine in Bougainville'. But he would not say that of course. We have to find a new formula for dealing with mining. I believe that the minerals on these lands should belong to the Aboriginal people and, therefore, that we have to find some formula by which the Aborigines can develop these lands if they wish to do so in their name, in their right and under their ownership. One of my objections to this Bill is in fact that it ought to be renamed. It is really not an Aboriginal land rights Bill. It deals with the mining rights on Aboriginal lands. That theme runs through the Bill and seems to be of greater authority than the actual Aboriginal lands themselves. I think we are only moving halfway. 
It is one of those intriguing facts in our society that the right of the miner runs continuously whereas no other right does. One may have a home on land but it is no trouble for the Government to take a person's home and put a road through it. It is no trouble taking a person's farm and turning it into something else. Land can be acquired for any of these purposes and we do it all the time. If one pegs out land as a miner, one has a particular relationship to the land. In fact, one has almost all the land rights which we are now trying to obtain for Aboriginal people. What this Bill purported to do, one would hope, would be to transfer that ownership to the Aboriginal people. Later at the Committee stage we will discuss some particular instances. There is no suggestion at this stage that we should take from people their present rights. We are talking about renewals. Why should a person have an absolute right to renew a lease? That right does not exist anywhere else. 
If one is leasing part of Canberra, there is no suggestion that one has an absolute right to continue with that lease after 99 years has elapsed. If one is leasing something from the honourable member for Lilley, when the lease is up and unless it is written into it in some particular way, one does not have the absolute right to continue. Many people in this country have acquired rights over land by simply occupying it in the past. The Aboriginal people, having occupied the land for 20 000 or 30 000 years, must almost have that right. I am saying that this is not antidevelopment, anti-mining or any of those things. If we are really genuine about transferring the rights, the proprietorship of this land to the Aboriginal people, we should not allow the renewal of leases to continue in the present sense. 
I support my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  in what he had to say about those other tilings which again put certain rights above the rights of Aboriginal people in towns and on Crown lands. I think we are discussing a very important principle. 
-It is not necessary. That is right. Members of the Country Party have an attitude to these matters but I am putting it seriously to the House that this is the very spirit of the legislation that we are debating. Therefore, if we have to decide a new formula, introduce subsidiary legislation or something of that nature to bring about a different deal in relation to mining rights, we should not allow the renewal of leases to continue in their present form because I believe it offends the spirit of the legislation and it will make absolutely certain that there are large parts of the Northern Territory on Aboriginal domain which will never belong to the Aboriginal in the strict sense. 
-In speaking to the amendment, I think a little bit of history will not go amiss. This is where we came in! I think of Nabalco Pty Ltd which, as I understand it, was one of the bodies with pre-existing arrangements written into its lease back in the 1960s. I recall what that situation was like and how the arrangements were made. There was supposed to be consultation. There was great unrest amongst the people of Yirrkala. A select committee of this Parliament was appointed. We went to the area and examined the matter. We heard what the people had to say. It was quite obvious that the 
Aboriginal people had not been consulted in the sense in which we talk of consultation. Neither were the people defended in the way in which people defend their interests in our society. Neither did they have the same sort of advocacy. One of the sad things about the Aboriginal situation is that when they have to have advocates for their own cause, in the face of the needs of the rest of the community, the advocates are normally the people who also act for the sovereign power. 
When this happened the mining people had pegged the place out. They had put lines across it. The Aboriginal people raised this matter with us down here in the south. A number of us visited the area. In the first instance there was my friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and myself. The people presented a petition to this Parliament. It was a celebrated petition in the form of a bark painting. Subsequently, the select committee made its recommendations. Not much notice was taken of those recommendations. So the lease was written for Nabalco, one of the great mining enterprises of the world. That was bad enough, but in the writing of the lease there was an extension so that when it is necessary for the company to have extra facilities available it will have the rights to those facilities. As far as I can see, it is almost a continuing right  ad infinitum  and total in the geographical sense. For example, it covers ports, buildings and the expansion of the mining area. That is not within the spirit of this legislation. That is not what it is supposed to be about. That overwhelms any chance of the Aboriginal people owning the area. 
I regarded the whole operation by Nabalco and the Australian Government, and the impact which that had upon the people there, as a sad event in Australian social history. We have not done all that much towards repairing the situation. So I appeal to the Government and to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs as strongly as I can not to tolerate a continuation of this mining mystique in this situation. This of course raises another interesting piece of social philosophy, namely, the question of pre-existing contracts. In this case the contracts are in the mining lease. I do not think that if we were to assert the paramountcy of Aboriginal rights to the land in this situation Nabalco would leave this afternoon or tomorrow or before its 42 years were up. My friend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has pointed out the return which the mining companies receive in this instance. They are getting their pound of flesh over and over again. This legislation is not about Aboriginal land rights. It is about miners' rights. That was all right back at Eureka, but this is a different situation. I believe that we are abdicating our responsibilities. 
I speak as one who took an active part in the very beginnings of this matter. I mention this for the benefit of those honourable members who are sitting in the House and who are interested in the matter. It happened at that time that I came across advertisements in a Northern Territory newspaper advising that the company was going to apply for leases on the Gove Peninsula. It was stated on the bottom of the advertisement that objections could be lodged in the Warden's Court. I was going to Darwin so I sat down and lodged objections. I suppose that was one of the first instances in which Aboriginal land rights were claimed in a court. My action caused a great deal of difficulty for the mining companies and it raised a great deal of hostility on the part of the Government at that time. Some honourable members tried to have me put off the select committee because they said I had a personal interest in the matter. But they were not able to do that because on that occasion they did not have the numbers. So we soldiered on. Here we are still arguing the same case. I think the time has come when we should say that Aboriginal rights to land are superior to the rights of miners to the use of that land. If the land is to be used for mining it should be used for and on behalf of the Aboriginal people by some kind of authority, company or corporation which works on behalf of the Aboriginals, not for anyone else. 
-The meaning I wished to give to what I was saying was that the consultations were totally inadequate as consultations between people who were able to understand one another's meaning in an absolute sense. 
I did not think that I needed to put it in those precise simple terms for the honourable member but now I have done so. 
-This is to allow a grant of land to Aboriginal councils. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Is the honourable member moving that amendment? 
Proposed new clause 20A. 
-I move: 
After clause 20, page 14, insert the following new clause: 20A.(l)Where- 
no person (other than the Crown) has an estate or interest in an area of Crown land; 
the Minister is satisfied that the land should be granted to an Aboriginal Council in the area of which the land is situated to be held and applied by the Council for a particular purpose or purposes, being a purpose or purposes within the scope of the functions of the Council; and 
the Aboriginal Council agrees to hold and apply the land for that purpose or those purposes, the Minister may recommend to the Governor-General that a grant of an estate in fee simple, or some lesser estate, in the land be made to the Aboriginal Council. 
Where a grant of land is made in accordance with a recommendation under sub-section (1), the Minister shall, by notice published in the  Gazette,  set out the purpose or purposes for which the land is to be held and applied and may, from time to time, with the consent of the Aboriginal Council, by notice published in the  Gazette,  vary or add to that purpose or those purposes. 
Where a grant of land is made to an Aboriginal Council in accordance with a recommendation under sub-section ( 1 ), section 1 9 applies in relation to the Council in respect of that land as if the Council were a Land Trust 
Where the Minister is satisfied that land granted to an Aboriginal Council in accordance with recommendation under sub-section ( 1 ) is not being applied in accordance with the statement of purpose or purposes published with respect to that land under sub-section (2), the Minister may recommend to the Governor-General that the grant of the land be revoked. 
On the receipt of a recommendation under subsection (4), the Governor-General may revoke the grant of the land to which the recommendation relates and, upon publication in the  Gazette  of a notice of that revocation, that land shall revert to the Crown. 
Where land reverts to the Crown under sub-section (5), compensation is payable by the Commonwealth to the owner of any estate or interest in the land granted by the Aboriginal Council and subsisting immediately before the reversion of the land to the Crown for the loss to that owner of that estate or interest, but compensation is not otherwise payable in respect of that reversion. 
Where the grant revoked under sub-section (5) has been entered in the register kept under the law of the Northern Territory relating to the transfer of land, the RegistrarGeneral or other appropriate officer under that law shall, on the publication of notice of the revocation in the  Gazette  alter that register accordingly. '. 
The object is to break out of the stranglehold that has been put on the legislation so far by the insistence upon traditional lands and to allow councils in other areas to have land allocated to them. So far as we are concerned it is important that the general principle of rights to land not be confined simply to those that happen to be reserves at this particular moment. I support the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  in his comments about this legislation. It is 12 years or 13 years since the argument first developed in this place. The key year was 1963. In 1967 the people of Australia said: 'Get on with it'. In 1972 they returned a government which launched this enterprise in this way. The legislation has been dithering around in the pigeonholes of the Government for months. Our committee met all Monday to examine these - 
There is no point in speaking to anything much except to place on record one's despair at the way we are dealing with the legislation. The sub-committee of my Party which considers these matters met all day Monday. In this Parliament we cannot have that kind of time to deal with the whole legislation. I think it is important that councils be given more status under this legislation, so I put it to the Committee that we should agree to this amendment. 
-We would like to record the amendment even if we do not speak to it. I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: "23. ( 1 ) The functions of a Land Council are- 
to administer Aboriginal land in its area that is held by Land Trusts; 
where the Land Council holds in escrow a deed of grant of land made to a Land Trust under section 12- 
to negotiate with persons having estates or interests in that land with a view to the acquisition of those estates or interests by the Land Trust; and 
until those estates or interests have been so acquired, to negotiate with those persons with a view to the use by Aboriginals of the land in such manner as may be agreed between the Land Council and those persons; 
to negotiate, on behalf of traditional Aboriginal owners of land in its area held by a Land Trust, being those owners as shown in the register maintained by the Council under section 24, and any other Aboriginals interested in the land, with persons desiring to use, occupy or obtain an interest in that land; 
to investigate, and to make representations concerning 
the requirements for land of Aboriginals living in its area; 
the use, whether by means of the acquisition of an interest or otherwise, by Aboriginals of Crown land in its area in which no person (other than the Crown) has an estate or interest; and 
priorities in the expenditure of public moneys in connexion with the acquisition or development of land in its area for the benefit of Aboriginals; 
to compile and keep- 
a register recording the names of the members of the Land Council; and 
a register recording the names of the members of the Land Trusts holding, or established to hold, Aboriginal land in its area and descriptions of each area of such Aboriginal land; 
to co-operate with, and assist, the Land Commissioner in exercising his functions and powers in connexion with land in its area; 
to issue, and revoke, permits to persons, other than Aboriginals, entitling them to enter and remain on Aboriginal land in its area and to impose conditions to be complied with by holders of permits so issued; and 
to supervise, and provide administrative assistance for, Land Trusts holding or established to hold, Aboriginal land in its area. "(2 ) In carrying out its functions with respect to any Aboriginal land in its area, a Land Council shall have regard to the interests of, and, where practicable, shall consult with, the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land as shown in the register maintained by the Council under section 24 and any other Aboriginals interested in the land and, in particular, shall not give a direction under section 27 to a Land Trust with respect to any matter in connexion with land held by that Land Trust unless the Land Council is satisfied that- 
the persons (if any) shown in the Register maintained by the Council under section 24 as the traditional Aboriginal owners of that land understand the nature and purpose of the proposed direction and do not oppose it; and 
any Aboriginal community or group that may be affected by the proposed direction has been consulted and has had adequate opportunity to express its view to the Land Council. "(3) Where a Land Council issues or revokes a permit to enter and remain on Aboriginal land in the area of an Aboriginal Council, the Land Council shall notify the Aboriginal Council, in writing, of- 
where a permit is issued- 
the fact that a permit has been issued with respect to land in the area of the Aboriginal Council; 
the particulars of the person to whom the permit is issued; and 
the conditions (if any) to be complied with by the holder of the permit; or 
where a permit is revoked- 
the fact that a permit with respect to land in the area of the Aboriginal Council has been revoked; and 
the particulars of the person who was the holder of the permit.". 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 24. 
A Land Council shall compile, and maintain, a register setting out- 
the names of the persons who, in the opinion of the Council, are the traditional Aboriginal owners of Aboriginal land in the area of the Land Council; and 
in relation to each group of traditional Aboriginal owners, a map or other references showing the sites belonging to them. 

 -Mr Chairman, I believe that a brief explanation of the purpose of this amendment is in order. The force of a proclamation is raised in this clause. It is our belief that the proclamation ought to have some of the force of regulations before the Parliament. If somebody moves for the disallowance of a regulation, that regulation is prevented from being implemented unless it is discussed within 1 5 sitting days. One of the difficulties with a proclamation is that it does not carry some of the force of a regulation. We think that its powers ought to be strengthened so that the Parliament can discuss each proclamation. In fact, the Parliament must discuss each proclamation. The problem with a proclamation at present is that it does not need to be discussed. If somebody moves for the disallowance of a regulation, that brings the matter before the Parliament for discussion. We propose to add the 2 techniques used by the Parliament together. I think we produce better parliamentary scrutiny of what is proposed by this amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 42. 
The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after the making of a Proclamation referred to m paragraph 40 ( 1 ) ( b ) or 4 1 ( 1 ) ( b ), cause a copy of the Proclamation to be laid before each House of the Parliament. 
Either House of the Parliament, within15 sitting days of that House after a copy of a Proclamation has been laid before that House under sub-section ( 1 ), may, in pursuance of a motion upon notice, pass a resolution disapproving of the declaration in the Proclamation. 
If neither House of the Parliament passes a resolution in accordance with sub-section (2) disapproving of the declaration in a Proclamation referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), the Proclamation takes effect on the day immediately following the last day upon which such a resolution could have been passed. 
-The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  can talk at great length, but the facts are that over the years the general membership of the Northern Territory legislature, particularly the political philosophy of the membership of the present Legislative Assembly, has been the principal factor in holding back the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. The Minister said that the Assembly would co-operate with the Government. That does not fill me with any glee. This legislation is designed to entrench the capacity of miners to mine on Aboriginal lands. It does not confer any absolute right at all. It is there until it is required to be used for something else. That has been the case with all the legislation that has come through the Legislative Council, as it was previously known, and the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory by proclamation, by ordinance or by any other means. I have sat here for 2 1 years now and watched the operation - 

 Mr BRYANTThat is right, and I will be here for a while yet. I might be here longer than some of the people barking over there in possum corner, as  Mr Calwell  used to call it. The facts are that every possible step that could be taken to stultify and frustrate the development of the rights of the Aboriginal people of Australia has emanated  principally  from the National Country Party, and its principal spokesmen have been people like the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  and the members of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory, as it is now called. As I said before, this Bill is simply the continual entrenchment of vested rights, particularly in mining areas but also in pastoral areas, by the people of the Northern Territory. It is a step in the right direction but it is a very small step indeed. It does not matter what the Minister says in any form of sophistry that he happens to bring to this matter- he cannot ClOUd the issue. The facts are that unless this Parliament takes the initiative, takes up its own duties and establishes Aboriginal rights, these rights will never be protected. 
I want to oppose clause 73. With proper respect for my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and his impassioned defence of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, let us transfer this to another medium. Clause 73 leaves certain responsibilities to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. That may very well be a sound procedure in some instances, but it is not in this instance. The Minister is responsible for a certain area of this legislation. The land councils and land trusts are also a part of the system. We have interposed the Legislative Assembly and we expect it to carry out certain complementary operations. This seems to me to be a totally unnecessary complication of the system. Regardless of the composition of the Legislative Assembly and of its political philosophy, I think it is totally wrong for us to implement legislation here which puts this final complication into the Act. It will only bedevil the system right from the beginning. I think it is an unwarranted concession to whatever happens to be the sacred State rights that prevail somewhere north of the boundary of the Northern Territory. I appeal to the Minister to take a good look at this clause and not to complicate the system. Australia is nearly ungovernable as it presently stands. To put this piece of nonsense into the situation is totally unnecessary. In fact, we ought to send that advice to Britain. 
I reiterate the remarks which I made earlier. The Title is a total misnomer. It ought to be changed to Northern Territory Miners Right (Aboriginal Lands) Bill. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it a fact that he has now taken the final steps to silence the voice of the people of East Timor completely by confiscating the radio of, and prosecuting, anybody listening to or attempting to communicate with those people? Would this action be in line with the spirit of the recent decision of the United Nations to condemn the aggression of Indonesia in Timor? Why is he supporting Indonesian aggression when the world body in fact condemns it? Is not this a pretty poor recompense for the assistance given by the people of East Timor when Australian troops there were attempting to use radio communications with this country? Is it a fact that Australians who were listening and who were able to react assisted our people there to overcome aggression in that country? Why does the Minister not act in the spirit of those times instead of accepting Indonesian aggression as a  fait accompli? 
-I want to support the remarks that were made by my friend the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  I agree that the Government has taken at least one useful step during its term of office, namely the consolidation of the long service leave provisions for the Commonwealth public servants. For too long this Parliament has tinkered with pieces of legislation  ad infinitum,  stacking them end on end so that we are disadvantaged in the way we debate them and the citizen who is trying to find out his or her rights and eligibility in respect of various things is also disadvantaged. So perhaps instead of doing some of the other things that this Government is doing it might concentrate on the consolidation of legislation. 
As my friend the honourable member for Fraser has pointed out, there are still some serious disadvantages flowing to some people. I would like to refer to a question raised in the second reading speech of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters  (Mr Street),  namely the question of the accrual rate which we increased last year and which has now been dropped from the Bill. As I read the Minister's second reading speech the theory is that if we allowed certain provisions we would be advancing Commonwealth public servants to such a level that a dangerous precedent would be set in the community. It is argued that the other members of the community would look at public servants green with envy and demand that their rights and eligibilities should be increased to that level. It is further argued that if this were done there would be the devil to pay in the economy and so on. This argument is used consistently as an excuse for not doing anything in the present economic situations. 
The honourable member for Fraser has pointed out that the legislation falls a long way short of establishing new trends or making public servants the pacesetters in the Australian community. I say emphatically that it is important for the Government of this country and for the continuance of good government of this country that the Australian Public Service should be the best employer in the country. I cannot think of any reason at all why it should not be not so much a trend setter as a standard bearer. The community as a whole is more dependent in a large measure upon the work of public servants than it is upon the work of people employed in private industry. I know that the common jargon says: 'Well, three-quarters of the people are working in private industry and therefore you have to transfer all sorts of advantages to them'. But the facts of life in the community are that the real machinery for making society work lies in the hands of governments- municipal, federal and State governments and public authorities. It is also true that industry relies in a large measure upon the Public Service system for the sinews of war. Transport, communications, power, gas and a great deal of banking, insurance and so on are in public hands in this country. 
It is my strongly held view that as time marches on the private sector will become decreasingly significant in the whole social arrangements. As productivity rises in the manufacturing sector fewer and fewer people will be employed in it, and fewer and fewer establishments will be involved to supply the community with its needs. The transfer of enterprise to the public arena will have to be accelerated, not reduced. To handle these arrangements we will have to demand the best brains and the best people and give them the best opportunities that the community can offer. I think it is a major heresy to try to reduce the competence of the Australian Public Service either by reducing its working conditions, by keeping it behind other areas, or by regarding it as an undue expense. I am glad that people such as part-time employees will be cared for a little better under this legislation. 
I want to support some of the remarks made by our colleague the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem).  It is not often that I agree with him, but occasionally he must be right. I refer to the remarks that he made about public servants being elected to parliaments. I was a member of the Victorian teaching service when I was elected to this Parliament. I would like to refer to the history of a member of the Victorian teaching service who was elected to the Victorian Parliament in 1947 or 1948, He was a member of a Labor government. He was defeated at a subsequent election and returned to his service at the bottom of the list. Subsequently in 1952 a Labor government was returned and it set to work to change the legislation so that people who were elected to the Victorian Parliament from the Victorian Public Service would be able to return to their jobs with all rights reserved. Subsequently, just before I was elected to this Parliament, the Act was changed- as a matter of fact it was a good piece of behaviour by a Liberal government- so that people elected to the Australian Parliament would be able to return to their jobs up to a period of 9 years after their election with all their rights reserved. I know that this was a substantial piece of security for people such as myself, even elected for seats such as mine. As everybody knows there are not only hurdles at elections; there are redistributions, pre-selections and matters such as that that lay in wait for the unwary member of this Parliament. 
That is right. I am one ofthe survivors. I think the term 'great' may well be applied but I am too modest to admit it. 
Frankly, I cannot explain why I should be modest about it. I think that this is an important area. I remember discussing this matter with my colleagues when we were in office. But as my friend the honourable member for Fraser has pointed out there was a serious obstruction on the other side of Kings Hall which prevented us from getting on with many of these things. So I suggest to the Ministry that it immediately examines the situation in Victoria and places in the Australian Public Service Act, the provisions which permit members of the Public Service elected to a parliament to be able to return to the Public Service upon defeat or retirement with their rights reserved. I would regard that as one of the democratic operations which a society such as ours ought to accept. All people ought to be available to the service of this Parliament without having to make any sacrifices. I advocate quite strongly such a change to the legislation. 
There are one or two other matters upon which I would like to remark. I think that the Australia Public Service is too miserable altogether regarding the question of leave without pay, particularly in the case of people in the lower ranks. Every time there is a new flurry in the economic arena and Prime Ministers or other people in the Government put ceilings upon the Public Service there is a great reduction in the opportunity for members of the Service, for example, to take 12 months off to complete a university degree. I think that is a serious disadvantage. I take the theme which has been developed in relation to the Northern Territory Public Service and which subsequently perhaps might be developed for the Australian Capital Territory. I refer to the portability of rights and the ability to transfer from that service to the general Australian Public Service at will. I think we should be doing this much more and in a much wider way. It ought to be much easier for people to move from the Public Service to the private sector and back again during their lifetime. I advocate that. I think that with the society which will develop in the future it will be to the advantage of everybody for that to happen. I know this from my own experience in life. I am sure that the time I spent in the armed Services improved my capacity to do the job properly. 
Portability is important towards producing flexibility in people who are operating in the service. I hope that the Government will have second thoughts about some of those matters which I have mentioned tonight. I hope that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  will be able to explain what we have done so far about a matter which is quite irrelevant to this Bill. I hope that the  Deputy Speaker  is not listening. This matter relates to long service leave for private employees in this city. With those few remarks I add that as time marches on we must increase the level of leave and have shorter working hours or we will not be able to fit the people into the system which is developing. 
I have no real objection to our meeting on Monday or any other day. Today is the seventy-fourth day of sitting since last year. I draw the attention of the House to item No. 36 on the Notice Paper- the final report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System- and its implications for the way in which we run this place. In the way in which we are working I do not see that there is any possibility of the Parliament dealing with legislation adequately. The end-on-end deliberations of 150 to 200 pieces of legislation cannot be fitted into the time available. We have just completed our deliberations on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. I suppose that that was the best example we have had for some time of a Bill which was debated at the Committee stage. I suggest to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that he take the time to listen to people who have something to say to him. 
-I second the amendment. I will be relatively brief in my remarks. 
-Yes I can. It would not take me more than half a minute to describe the honourable member's inadequacies or adequacies. I support my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  in this matter. Whilst it is true that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  may by reference expand the proposed committee's work, I think that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Hughes gives the committee's terms of reference more precision and more direction and therefore we ought to act upon it. I will not go over the ground which we canvassed during the debate on the land rights legislation. I will not repeat our lack of faith in the capacity of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to carry out the duties that we think were imposed upon us by the people of Australia in 1967 and in following years. 
I think the suggestion to expand the membership of the present Committee to include members of the Senate is a good one. The original suggestion was that a separate committee be appointed. However, I think that the re-creation of the Standing Committee in the form of a special land rights scrutiny committee is a good step towards strengthening the parliamentary committees. I also think it is an interesting step in the role which this Parliament plays. My belief is that the Parliament spends too much of its time considering legislation upon which it has no effect and too little time upon its proper function of scrutiny of the results of that legislation. The new committee will be involved in the scrutiny of legislation which has been passed by the Parliament. I think that is an important step. It may be that the Parliament could turn its attention to other areas as well. The present Committee, with the addition of the senators, will be a fairly powerful one. I think it will have on it at least 4 people who have been Ministers responsible for the general area of Aboriginal affairs.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will agree that the present Committee has some very distinguished and effective back benchers on it. The chairmanship is pretty sound, as long as it is given proper direction. 
I note the Minister's statement that we will get full support from his Department. I hope we will be able to get support from a large number of areas of government, particularly from the House committee staff and so on. Over the last 6 months a number of us have become very deeply involved in the committee side of Aboriginal affairs. I know it has been a very strenuous exercise physically. It has been very demanding intellectually. I am convinced that committees will not be able to work as effectively as we wish unless we expand the servicing of them. The staff travels all over Australia continually. They do their work with great dedication. I am certain that this House is still rather miserly in its approach to the staffing and servicing of committees. 
There is one other matter to which I think we ought to turn our attention in regard to the work of committees. I think it is time that we allowed committees to appoint one of their members to investigate a particular aspect of a subject. In any other area of government we are likely to appoint one person to carry out an investigation and report. Sometimes it is a waste of resources to have a number of people- five or six- listening to one lot of evidence or even investigating one area of activity. This is a question for the Standing Orders Committee or perhaps for a special resolution of this Parliament. I know that the activities of the present Committee would have been expanded enormously and would have been carried out with a greater economy of human resources if individual members could have done some of the work that sub-committees do on occasions. 
Has the Prime Minister received representations from business firms which import goods not made in Australia but which have obviously been substantially affected by the recent devaluation? Is any consideration being given to methods of easing the problems created by devaluation for such firms? If so, when will an announcement be made on this subject? Will the Prime Minister ensure that any action taken in this matter does not further damage the prospects for survival of Australian industries already under threat because of his Government 's erratic policies? 
-These amendments simply confirm what we said here the other day, that this piece of legislation ought to be renamed the Miners Rights (Aboriginal Lands) Bill. One may ask: When is an agreement not an agreement? The answer is: When it is made for or with Aborigines. As long as it is not put on the dotted line the Government does not need to observe it. I think that the Committee should reject these amendments as the Opposition recommended that it reject some of the features of the Bill in the first instance. For years now the Aboriginal people of Australia have been demanding an absolute land rights situation. It has been an accepted principle of law almost since the first colonial settlements by the British and by the Spanish that no government has ever taken land rights seriously. The issue has always been pushed into a pigeon hole when the government was confronted with some material advantage such as from mining. This legislation is simply a sop to the system. 
There is no doubt that in the last few weeks the mining interests of Australia have brought pressure to bear upon the Government and upon the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  We are now protecting the interests of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd- one of the real suffering groups in the community! That is bad enough, but the whole principle behind this issue is offensive. The agreements were made with BHP back in 1969, 1 think. They were made for a term of 2 1 years, with a right of renewal for another 21 years, which will take us through to the year 2011. So the dead hand of history is going to he upon Groote Eylandt for another 40 years or more. I do not think this House or the Government ought to permit that. I think the time has come when we should not surrender basic human rights to such things as mining for material advantage and to what is apparently the even more sacred right- State rights- which is implicit in attitudes towards the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I appeal to the House to take a good hard look at this legislation and to reject it. However, I have no doubt that it will not do so. 
We might ask why legal rights transcend moral rights. We heard this afternoon my colleague the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  saying a few words about the hypocrisy of the people at the Interparliamentary Union Meeting in Madrid. They spoke about democracy, human rights and all the rest, yet they represented some of the most repressive governments in history. We are being repressive this afternoon. We are confirming the rights of the possessors of power in the form of wealth and the mining companies over the rights of the Aboriginal people. Let us consider Arnhem Land. It was proclaimed an Aboriginal Reserve back in 1931, 1 think it was. To those of us who were concerned with Aboriginal affairs over the years before 1963, or thereabouts, Arnhem Land was believed to be inviolate. It was very difficult to visit the area. People had to have special permits to do so. But as soon as minerals were discovered there in substantial quantities in the early 1960s an invasion began at Yirrkala. Subsequently the same thing happened at Groote Eylandt and it will happen at other places also if this Bill comes into force. I appeal to the Parliament to take a second look at its moral obligation and to place moral obligations before legal obligations. 
This piece of legislation comes at the endperhaps it is only the beginning- of a long series of negotiations and campaigns for Aboriginal land rights. I suppose that in another sense it is the beginning because this might be the point from which we advance the cause further. I should like to say something about some of those people, humble in the world at large as they are, but on occasions exalted as one became recently, in their campaign. I suppose the campaign about land rights was generated in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Land rights became an issue to Aboriginal people of Australia. Some of the people who were active in the campaign then are still around.  His Excellency Sir Douglas  Nicholls, the Governor of South Australia, was one of those active people who kept the spirit of Aboriginal progress and advancement alive and was active in such causes.  Mr Joe  McGinness, who now works with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Cairns, is another, and  Mrs Faith  Bandler, who lives in Sydney, was another. They are Aboriginal and Island people who sowed the seed of understanding among the rest of the community. The campaign for land rights flowed from there. People such as ourselves, the Woodwards, the Viners and the departmental officers, are the heirs to that campaign. 
In this debate I suppose one should pay some tribute to the Gurindji people, who some years back walked off the Wave Hill property to indicate that they intended to have land for themselves. From such humble beginnings the great movement for Aboriginal land rights has grown. We recognise the serious challenge that land rights makes to our whole legal system and our whole land property system. Generally speaking, we are inclined to think that we own the land but we do not own the minerals. It is the Oppostion's view that the Aboriginal domain should include the right to the minerals for and on behalf of the Aboriginal people. We have to consider also what we should do about providing land for Aborigines beyond providing such places as the existing Aboriginal reserves. That will create great difficulties, as it has done in Canada and in the United States of America. The Opposition rejects these amendments. We feel that they represent a continuation of the surrender of the interests of the Aboriginal people to the mining companies of Australia. 
On a matter that concerns the parliamentary system, I think it would have been helpful if, instead of having just this jargon- as it might be called- which describes the land in question, we had had a map circulated with the explanatory memorandum. I requested a map of the Northern Territory from the Library so that I could locate the land exactly, but unfortunately the only map I could get rapidly was an atlas which does not define the land. I am not blaming anybody in particular for this, but this land could have been more adequately defined for my benefit, if not for the benefit of the rest of my colleagues, whose understanding of geography would be so precise that they would be able to tell me exactly where the spot is. The land is defined as: 
Commencing at the intersection of latitude 14 degrees 01 minutes with longitude 136 degrees 30 minutes 30 seconds thence proceeding to the intersection of latitude 14 degrees 01 minutes with longitude 136 degrees . . . 
It goes on further. No doubt, that is precision carried to the ultimate, but it is not very helpful to understanding. So, in presenting documents to this Parliament for consideration of such matters, I think it would be a simple courtesy to give us every explanation that is necessary. When we are dealing with matters relating to land, I think a map might even be included. 
If it is some comfort to the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  I will stop early enough for him to have a say, as a gesture to a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. 
-Do not let me embark upon that kind of an argument. I have been a member of this House for long enough to be able to qualify to speak in debates without having to apply to the Whip of the Government parties. As a nonmember of the Committee, I thank the Committee on behalf of all the non-members of it for the competence of their work and for the dedication which they put into it. I take up the remarks of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  about the fact that the Committee embarked upon a program which was certainly not in the normal field of parliamentary endeavour inasmuch as this was a highly technical subject. However, I have a great deal of faith in members of Parliament  en masse,  and sometimes individually, and in their competence to examine subjects of great technicality and to produce adequate understanding of them. In this case I believe they have done so. 
I ask the Government, insofar as it is likely to take any initiative about anything at this stage, to apply itself to having the recommendations of this Committee carried out. Perhaps it is time we had some system of parliamentary audit by which committee reports which are brought before the Parliament are examined and continually sent along the way. Something must be done inside the parliamentary system to make this part of it effective. This report would not be the first report which has been before Parliament and which has been completely ignored. A committee has recently been looking at matters concerning Aborigines. It discovered that around Australia something like 45 reports have been ignored. 
I want to refer briefly to 3 matters which interest me particularly. The first matter is on the first page of the recommendations. The first one is that we do something about legislation in some of the States which denies the responsibility of education departments to provide educational services to handicapped children. This has been one of the most callous areas of Australian education- the ignoring of our duty to handicapped children and to the parents of those children. It has created great hardship. It has been an area of neglect over most of Australia, and it will be only through the action of some supranational authority that we will get equal opportunity in that field for those children. 
The second point is item (c) of the recommendations which is in chapter 3. It states that we should make every effort to recruit teachers, preferably from the relevant ethnic groups, who are proficient in minority and migrant languages, and so on. I speak about this matter with some depth of feeling because my electorate has one of the great concentrations of migrants in Australia. Three million people have come to this country, thousands of them with a faintly literate background of their own. Mostly they have been poured into the industrial areas of Australia. Their future education has been ignored. I think this has been a very serious area of neglect. It ought not to have been tolerated. The Government of which I was a member attempted to introduce a program and started it along its way. I do not think the Victorian Education Department applied itself with proper vigour to the task. In this instance we will need special classes, special equipment and special teachers. We have a Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs responsible for the question. We have a Department of Education. There is no excuse for our not pressing the State departments, making the necessary grants and getting on with the job. I think this is one of the most important areas of educational activity. 
The third point is the situation of the Aboriginal children of Australia. Governments pre- 1972 took some steps which gave some hope to the Aboriginal children in that they established, I think, secondary grants. In the 3 years in which we were in government we took a lot of steps to establish programs to overcome the particular difficulties of Aboriginal groups. I appeal to the Parliament, to the Government in particular, to take urgent steps to implement these recommendations. It is quite pointless the Parliament appointing committees which put a lot of work into their subject and which travel the country at great length, listen to a large number of competent people who produce mountains of submissions and evidence, if nothing then happens. I appeal to the Government to forget for a moment the theology that it calls economic theories. It should start to apply some vigour to this. Today we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  saying that it was absolutely essential that we reduce government expenditure. This is such an enormous social contradiction that we cannot tolerate it. The people of Australia ought to be alerted to the contradiction between the pretensions about social policy and philosophy of honourable members opposite and the economic theories being followed. 
I remind the House that Australia's record in public education is probably as good as that of any other country. At the end of the last century we established a free, compulsory and mostly secular education system. That was basically in the 1870s. At that stage not much more than 50 to 60 per cent of the community was literate. According to the census returns, by 1900 Australia was basically a literate community. That was a remarkable achievement. It had the great advantage of a simple objective, that is, to obtain literacy- to be able to read and write. Unfortunately we still have no clear objective in secondary education, for handicapped people or for specialist groups. 
I propose to finish at that point although there are a number of things that I would like to say, particularly to my friend the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  I think it is inordinate impertinence on his part to think that he shall decide whether or not people shall speak in this House. He is one of those fortunate people who is a temporary member of this Parliament. On this occasion I sit down to pay a proper courtesy to my friend, the honourable member for Darling Downs who, in this instance, happens to be right, but who is mostly in a situation of grievous political error. I remind the House in doing so that it is very rarely that that kind of courtesy is paid to myself or anybody on this side of the House. 
-This is a quite unnecessary motion. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  simply had to say yes and agree that there would be an adjournment debate. There is no reason why we should not have an adjournment debate. Yet, through sheer cussedness, he will stop us on this side of the House from speaking on this matter. All he is doing is inviting retaliation. I ask: At what stage of the game do we start to treat one another with proper courtesy in these matters? There is no difficulty. The House sits until 1 1 o'clock. Ministers have the right of reply until ten past eleven. In this instance all he had to do was sit down and to let the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  have his say, and honourable members on our side have their say on the adjournment debate and there would be no trouble. It is no wonder that the place is faced with continuous chaos. It is because the Leader of the House goes on with nonsense. He continually sabotaged the Parliament while we were in government and he is continuing to do it now. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice: 
Has the Minister for Administrative Services terminated the arrangement by which uniforms for Commonwealth car drivers are manufactured at the Australian Government Clothing Factory, Coburg, Victoria. 
2 ) If so, will he have discussions with the Minister for Administrative Services to have this decision rescinded. 
In what way is it advantageous to the Australian Government to transfer Government work from a Government factory to the private sector, thus leaving Governmentowned resources idle. 
-Any parliament worth its salt would reject this legislation out of hand. I think it goes to the heart of what government is all about. In this instance we have a situation in which the Public Service Board  Chairman  and to a certain extent the other members of that Board are being elevated and exalted in authority and status, and in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself is being given extra powers in the appointment of people at the top of the Service. We have as part of this triumvirate the term 'permanent head' itself. So, we are creating a Frankenstein which will be beyond the control of this Parliament. I believe the great challenge of parliamentary democracy is the creation of a situation in which there is more parliament in government and not less. The system as I see it is this: The people of this country elect a parliament to govern it. The Parliament itself chooses from amongst its members a number of people as its executive officers and their charter runs because they are members of this Parliament. I disagree as absolutely as I can with the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who thought that we ought to produce somebody from outside the Parliament to take the role of Ministers. I suppose that he is disheartened after looking at the people he sits behind in this place but I would not even agree to replacing them with people from outside Parliament. 
The facts are that the Parliament is the executive instrument of the Australian people, that the Ministers are the Parliament's chosen officers, and that the departments, permanent heads and the whole instrument of administration are the arms of the Parliament. Traditionally of course, for aU sorts of reasons- many of which I think are irrelevant now- we have attempted to create greater areas of independence in the Public Service, in its appointments and in its administration, because in the past we had the kind of politics where interference created what we might call 'corruption'. I believe we now live in a different political and governmental environment and that in fact the Parliament itself, a Minister himself and whatever relationships a Minister has with the Parliament have to be related more closely to the day-to-day operations of government. The Ministers are the answering authorities. Everybody else, once they are appointed, can soldier on in an anonymous way. They can do all sorts of things. They can make all sorts of decisions and go home safely at night knowing that most people will not know who made those decisions. This Bill is a challenge to the parliamentary system. I believe that this legislation is reducing the status and effectiveness of this Parliament. I believe that every member of this Parliament who gives any consideration to my remarks will support honourable members on this side of the House. 
What is the role of a permanent head? I raise this question in the Parliament itself. Why is the Parliament so obsessed with the authoritarianism that is implicit in this legislation? What is the function of this person who in the legislation has the particular style and title of permanent head? I concur with the remarks of my friend the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  I do not think it is an appropriate title. I do not think that these people ought to be permanent in the sense contained in this legislation. The duty of a permanent head is to administer a department of State in accordance with the directions, wishes and policies of the Minister who is expressing his government 's and, in effect, ultimately, the Parliament's wishes and aspirations. But what the Public Service Act has done in the past and still does and what this legislation is doing and amplifying is to give a permanent head a greater area of independence.  His  appointment will not flow necessarily and directly from the people for whom he works.  His  powers remain untrammelled. I suggest that honourable members should consider the functions and role of a permanent head as defined in the Public Service Act and as they are applied in this country and give some thought to making substantial changes. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-The Opposition is opposing the Bill before the House relating to appointments to the First Division of the Australian Public Service. We regard it as a shabby exercise in augmenting the authoritarian system and as an exercise in elitism. The thing that puzzles me about debates of this nature, and particularly the arguments that emanate from the other side of the House, is the obsession with 'single authorities' such as permanent heads, prime ministers and public service boards. It is as if governments seek to create some consortium of mandarins from which it is going to draw aU the talent with which finally to administer the country. We are opposed to that exercise. The Labor Party believes in more open  government.  It believes in a greater exercise of parliamentary authority in government, not less. We do not believe that it is necessary to have a close consortium or in this case a triumvirate of elitist people who are going to decide major issues. 
This Bill creates a special triumvirate, if I may call it that. The  Chairman  of the Public Service Board will have a very special authority- an authority that in some respects could even transcend the authority of the Prime Minister and everybody else. At least he sits in a position of initiative-something which is denied to other people. The permanent head who is finally appointed will in certain circumstances have privileges which will be denied to others. Something I think this Parliament ought to be well aware of and of which it ought to take heed and which it ought to reject is the augmentation of the authority of the Prime Minister. This Parliament is a concert of equals. Under our system a number of people are chosen by various means to become our executive instruments and to control the departments of state. The term 'Prime Minister' is not mentioned in the Constitution. The Prime Minister is the  chairman  of the board, one might say. However, and unhappily- I think unhappily for good democratic government- we have allowed the position to become a total authority, particularly on the other side. This Bill ought to be rejected by any parliament that is concerned at all about its own authority. 
How should we select permanent heads? What ought their functions be? What ought their relations be with the Ministers? What ought the Ministers ' relations be with the departments? This Bill deals with the method of selection of permanent heads. It is always difficult to decide now to select people for major or minor posts. I speak from my own experience. I was responsible for the appointment of one permanent head. It was my personal choice and decision, supported by the Cabinet. I was responsible for taking part in other appointments. For instance, I have been on the council of the National Library for a number of years dealing with the appointment of Directors-General as they are now called 
I am convinced that in a society such as ours in respect of a position such as that of permanent head it is necessary to advertise. We may not achieve the result that we expect but the position has to be opened up so that all the talent that is available and would Uke to be available has the opportunity to say so. I will quote a couple of instances. I advertised for staff for myself as Minister. In the normal course of events a Minister is inclined to look amongst his circle of people whom he knows or who have been recommended to him but when I advertised there were suddenly dozens of people available. In fact, in that instance about 180 people whose talents I was unaware of were offering themselves. Two of the people who joined my staff would not have been invited if we had not advertised because they were unknown to us. 
-If that question were helpful I would like to answer it. What was it? 
-That is right. It may well have been that they felt I needed further guidance. It may well have been that they felt that those things which I was doing were things in which they would like to participate, but they were people of great talent. The same thing happened when we advertised years ago for a director of the National Library and also when we advertised for an administrator of Norfolk Island. People whom one would not have dreamed would be interested but who had the talent to do the job and the competence to do so, offered themselves. 
Then there is the question of selection. I do not think we ought to allow this to fall into the hands of the people who are nominated in this Bill. The principal architects of government are the parliamentary representatives in the executive, and that is the Ministers; it is all the Ministers. It is not a job just for the Prime Minister. If these appointments are not made with the approval of the Parliament in accordance with the advice and consent clause which does not appear in this legislation then the final appointment must be by the Cabinet itself. I have held the view for a long while that we should at least have terminal appointments. I am not sure whether they should be for 5 years or for 7 years. That is a matter for decision. At the end of that period the person may be available for reappointment but I think the general theme would be that the person would pass to another post of equivalent status. It may well be that the system ought to allow for less differential between the people inside the Service. 
In this debate, which I suppose is the first one we have had for a long while about the principles, we are restricted by time but I hope that in the near future the Parliament will get around to an examination of its functions and a reexamination of the whole of the Public Service Act and the implications of the powers of the permanent head. As I understand it the permanent head in the Commonwealth Public Service is a much more powerful functionary than he is in most of the State services. I do not think it should be that way. The Minister is almost helpless in some areas such as in the creation of the actual style of the department and he is isolated in other matters. 
There is just one other point I will make before I sit down. I have no sympathy whatsoever with this argument of politicising or not politicising the Public Service. In a democratic country such as ours where voting is compulsory everybody is political. You are no better a person because your politics are secret. I have never found it difficult to work in the areas in which one works in this place with people who have had totally different Politic-al philosophies from mine. I recognise that if a person has a totally different social philosophy it would be difficult for him to implement some of the policies that I espouse. 
The same applies to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  who is sitting at the table. It would be difficult for people who share my political and social philosophies to carry out some of the michievous policies he would like to have implemented. That is one of the difficulties. Therefore I believe there ought to be greater flexibility in the making of these appointments, greater opportunity for people to be transferred from the position and at the same time affording them pretty fair protection in the job. I think this legislation goes right to the heart of parliamentary government and the Parliament as an executive instrument of the Australian people. I think this legislation is totally wrong in its concept. It is a flurry of politics introduced in an attempt to cash in on appointments a Labor government made which were first class appointments of first class people. I believe that the Prime Minister has led himself into a corner which will do us all a great deal of harm in the further administration of this country. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-In giving our concurrence to this Bill, I ask the Government to take whatever steps it can in the next phase of international co-operation towards disarmament. I think Australia is in a position in which it ought to be able to use its influence in these  matters.  I agree with the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  In the final analysis there is not much difference between the victim who is hit by a shell, napalm, an arrow, or a bacteriological, biological or toxicological weapon. I am not too sure that Australia has played an effective role in this matter or that it has used its influence in an attempt to get a consortium - 
-If you want me to keep this up all night, go ahead. I place on record that I think Australia has a function to perform in this area. I take the matter further than the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who, I think, is unduly pessimistic about the people on the other side of the fence. After all, all the nasty, treacherous governments are not communist governments. I do not feel too kindly about the one in Indonesia at the moment. I think the Australian Government ought to start by taking up some other areas of international co-operation in the banning of weapons, play a much more effective part in it and perhaps start to move towards some convention which prevents the international trading in arms. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I support the comments of my friend, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  about the sanctity of the document- the Constitution. The document is, after all, just another creation of men. It was relevant and valid at the time of its creation. Many parts of it have served the country well for 70-odd years but increasingly a large amount of it has become irrevelant and must be changed. So much nonsense is talked about it. It is elevated as my friend from Robertson says into some holy writ in such a way that the citizenry is unwilling to alter it. It has been erected into a temple which must not be altered. The time has come for the community at large to take a deep interest in the Constitution, to study it, to be informed about it and to change it. I will do everything in my power to see that there is a Yes vote on the 4 questions in my electorate. I hope that every other member of this Parliament will do the same. The duty in the end devolves upon the members of this House. There may be some foot dragging from the people in the Senate but we on this side of Parliament ought to get to work this weekend and organise institutions of com.paigning so that the referenda pass. 
There is no doubt in my mind that the major error tha we have committed in the past is failure to educate the community about the Constitution, failure to get them to understand its principles and to understand what it is all about. They must be prepared to consider it effectively to the point of change. I think that the first issue we have before us is the citizens' right to know and how this Parliament will face the problem of letting them know. Legislation of course requires that there will be a Yes case and a No case. I believe that the document itself belongs to the community at large-the citizens. It is not the property of political parties. It is not the property of government. It ought not to be left to the political parties to put out the case. There should be a governmental operation to ensure that the citizens get the case put before them effectively. I believe that there ought to be a bureau for constitutional consideration and change, a small unit somewhere in the Government, whose job it is to continually inform people what the Constitution is about. 
This haphazard approach upon which we are embarking- this is just part of a continuing series- will not get us very far. I am afraid that we may even not get the passage of these referenda unless we do something explicit about them. I know that throughout a great deal of the Commonwealth my colleagues opposite in particular have done a great deal to advantage their politics by confusion and by ignorance. They have maintained the situation that way. I am reminded tonight of the haphazard way in which we go about this matter by just looking at the  Hansard  of the day on which I first sat in this Parliament- 15 February 1956. The GovernorGeneral said on that occasion: 
My advisers believe that the relations between the two Houses should be reviewed. 
Quite a section followed which I would like to read but I have undertaken to my friends opposite not to speak at length so that we can get these Bills through this House and over to the other place. I believe that the changes about Senate elections are rational and necessary. I have some doubts in my own electorate that it is not to our advantage to have separate Senate elections because of the difficulty for the great migrant population to fill in ballot papers. I believe that it is also necessary to accustom people to vote rationally, so I think that is a necessary change. 
I turn now to the question of the retirement of judges. It is a pity that such a thing has to be written into the Constitution by referendum. On the question concerning fellow citizens in the Territories, it is absolutely essential that they be made part of the whole system. It is a disgrace to the Australian political system that we even have to consider a referendum dealing with the filling of casual Senate vacancies. It is a reflection on my colleagues opposite who are part of the political system which created the crises 2 years ago that these Bills have to be introduced. Those people who say it is a cynical exercise are correct. I think it is an election-dodging exercise so far as Senate elections are concerned. I believe it is an effort on the part of my friends opposite to ensure that they never get caught in the same jam as we were in regard to the filling of Senate vacancies, and it is made as the people in the States vote increasingly for State Labor governments. Despite this cynicism, the legislation is necessary. 
I put to the people who are listening and to the members of this Parliament that the continuity of change is essential for the good government of this country. We live under the most undemocratic constitutional document probably in existence. It is hard to imagine any other constitutional document which would confer upon one person, an appointed official, the powers which now lie with the Governor-General. He can dissolve the Parliament; has done so. He may prorogue the Parliament. He can decide on the meetings of Parliament. He can appoint and dismiss Ministers; he has done so. He can withhold assent to Bills. He can decide on messages of appropriation. He is the commander-in-chief. I am not suggesting that he will do all those things in the immediate future, but at midday on 11 November 1975 I did not think he would do what he did then. I believe that our Constitution is the most undemocratic constitutional document. I invite honourable members opposite to go to the Library and find some other person anywhere in a democratic society who has that authority. 
There are other changes. We should embark upon a campaign to reduce the power of the Senate. It is a threat to the continuing stability of government, as the Governor-General said in 1956. He had a speech written for him by that other leading democrat,  Sir Robert  Menzies as he now is. It is essential that we change the numerical relationship between the 2 Houses. I think that is most important. It is nonsense that at times such as this, with the population increasing, we should be reducing the number of members of parliament. With the demands upon this Parliament increasing, we are reducing the number of members. A campaign is needed to get the message across. We need control of the economy. I think we need some machinery for co-operation rather than confrontation with the States. I say emphatically that the most important thing-I suggest the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  give thought to this- is the establishment of some machinery for a continuing campaign and information about the Constitution to the people of Australia. 
I remind the House of our exercises in this regard. As my friend from Robertson said, I was an active participant in the campaign to change the Constitution and the powers of this Parliament in relation to Aboriginal people. We launched a campaign here, with petitions in May 1957. We kept it up with questions in the House, debates throughout the country, petitions from one end of the country to the other and meetings from one end of the country to the other. It was carried successfully, with a 93 per cent vote in 1967-10 years later. On the other hand, the nexus question was thrown to the people almost without any notice. I thought it would be carried. The political parties in my electorate- the Liberal Party and the Labor Party-supported it. A week before the referendum was to be held I was talking to some of my very solid Labor supporters. They said: 'We will vote no'. I said: Why?' They said: 'We do not want to increase the number of members of Parliament'. I explained the technical question about the Senate. They said: 'Is that true?' I said: 'Yes'. I ran off a few hundred leaflets over the weekend but they did not have any great result. The Australian Democratic Labor Party's formidable campaign defeated the referendum. We were not prepared for it. I hope we do not fall into that trap this time. I hope we will set up an apparatus, adequately supported by government sources, to make sure that these referendums are carried. 
I take it that the Public Accounts Committee is happy with this proposal. I hope that the expenditure of $24m will eventually put the Williamstown Naval Dockyard into such a situation that Australia will not need to import ships, particularly warships. The desperate situation in the Australian shipbuilding and ship repair industry is now public knowledge. All the evidence that has come before the defence committee which is looking into this matter indicates of course that Australian dockyards ought to have been re-equipped years ago. There is no evidence from anywhere to indicate that Australian workers and Australian managers given the appropriate equipment cannot compete with anyone else. I hope that by modernising the faculties at the dockyard it will mean that there will no longer be any need for Australia to look overseas for the manufacture of its naval vessels. Perhaps at some time the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  could give the House a run down on the future position of our dockyards. I guess the information is in a document somewhere. I think it would be of general assistance to the community if there were a definitive statement on the effective future of such places and particularly on their capacity to build naval vessels completely and, if that is not 
I do not know how the House can vote in the affirmative on this motion. It is now something like 3 years since we brought to order the situation - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fundamental part of the Government's economic policy to reduce the real income of the Australian salary and wage earner? If so, does it mean a transfer of wealth is being undertaken from the salary and wage earner to the profit making sector- basically, public corporations? Am I right in assuming that if this is the case, taking the figures which he used in his speech last week, this is a transfer of about $ 1,200m from wage and salary earners to the profit making sector? As the Australian consumers, who are basically the wage and salary earners, consume over 80 per cent of all manufactured products and nearly SO per cent of all primary products, does not this have a very serious effect upon the consumption capacity of Australia's biggest customers- Australians themselves? Will he take note of the statement of the Prime Minister yesterday about the importance of the Australian consumer? Will he explain to me how he can carry out that policy and fulfil the Prime Minister's policy, announced a few moments ago, of a sustainable and proper recovery of the economy? 
I raise with the House the problem of prorogation and what it really means as that is the reason for this special adjournment. The Oxford Dictionary defines prorogation as a discontinuance of parliament without its dissolution. In this instance the prorogation is causing a great deal of inconvenience. It has stopped a lot of committees doing work. It has prevented the absolute surety that matters will continue from this week to a fortnight's time. That matter was raised here this morning. Therefore I hope the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  will take up with  Mr Speaker  the necessity perhaps to re-examine Standing Orders and not necessarily be inhibited by the restrictions that flow to us from other parliaments. As I understand it no Act of Parliament is involved. This is simply a traditional way of interpreting the word 'prorogue '. I think this is quite inappropriate and irrelevant and that the Parliament should not go through this charade any longer. I am deeply grateful that  Her  Majesty the Queen is to open the Parliament. I think that she has a much better attitude to the rights and powers of this Parliament than does her agent in this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-! present a report from the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory, being a report that the Committee has been unable to complete its inquiry. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
I would like to make two or three points about it. The Parliament appointed the Joint Committee and gave it the task of reporting by 3 1 May 1 977. We find that this is impossible. It was probably an optimistic estimate when the Committee was appointed because we had to cover an immense amount of territory to see people. The prorogation for a week has prevented us from carrying out an important part of our program. As I remarked this morning, I think we should have a close look at the prorogation procedures and determine whether what we are doing next week-that is, suspending the life of the Parliament, almost, for many important things- is necessary, bearing in mind the meaning of prorogation. I ask that the Parliament, as soon as it reconvenes, reconstitute the Committee and extend its date for reporting to 18 August 1977. The Parliament is well served by members of that Committee. They give a lot of time in faraway places. Although there is a very wide divergence of political opinion amongst its members, I am quite certain that the report which will be finally produced will be the consensus of keen minded, hard working people who will have surrendered prejudices from both sides to do something for the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. 
-I suppose there is some comfort that as far as the National Country Party is concerned nothing ever changes for the better. We have heard  ad nauseam  in the 2 1 years I have been a member of this place the case made out by the Country Party against proper democratic political representation. One sees it in turning back the pages of political history. The honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  has a rather simplistic view of representation. It is whether a person has a car or not. It is whether a person lives in his electorate or not. Perhaps it is a reasonable proposition. To reply to the honourable member, what I have to say is that he does not live anywhere. He just takes up space. My own view of representation is that it does not matter where one sleeps. It is what one does when one is awake that matters. It is time that the Country Party woke up to the fact that we are dealing with people. The honourable member for Calare- and I suppose it is a tribute to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  in his propaganda campaign- is capitalising on the reflected glory of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie who represents or misrepresents most of Western Australia. The honourable member for Calare, weeping copiously here about his 29 000 square kilometres which is something like 12 000 or 13 000 square miles has tried to gather some steam out of the fact that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie tries to represent some 800 000 or 900 000 square miles. The electorate of Kalgoorlie was represented in the Parliament for 16 or 17 years by  Mr Fred  Collard- adequately representedand I never heard him grizzle like the honourable member for Calare did because he represents - 
-The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  will not be here for 17 or 18 years. He has 600 days to go. He may as well make the most of them. Members of the Country Party say it is hard luck that - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  Firstly, I remind the House of the comment I made in regard to honourable members addressing their remarks to the Chair. Secondly, I remind honourable members that interjections are out of order. While there has been some comment with regard to the Bill that people will not be here much longer, if interjections continue that statement will be a correct one at least for tonight. 
You will have to forgive me  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I was speaking eloquently about the Country Party and knowing you are a member of it I thought you would be embarrassed if I directed my remarks straight at you. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie has 17 State members to look after. Apparently that is a hardship. Obviously they are mostly Country Party members. I would have thought that that was fairly adequate representation. 
The Opposition has 2 serious objections to this Bill. This Bill is again another mangling of the many efforts to try to make Australian political representation democratic. We object to the guidelines that have been set down for the periods of redistributions and we object to the possibility rather more than the probability, perhaps in the immediate future of a gerrymander arising out of the area provisions. There would have to be something wrong with us if we did not realise that in the long history of electoral redistributions they have gradually become worse and worse in this country wherever conservative parties have been in command. Another point I would like to make about the honourable member for Calare is that he said there is no possibility of direct electoral justice under the present Constitution. Therefore he says if we cannot have direct electoral justice we may as well magnify the injustice. 
We recognise the fact that we are cornered inside the Constitution and can only, as near as practicable, make redistributions democratic inside each State. The honourable member mentioned that there have been 4 distributions over a period of 20 years in which the differential between the various electorates was fairly small. I think that is the way it ought to be, as I hope to explain in a few moments. My own view is that electorates ought to be as close as practicable in voting power because that is what representative government is about. I represent 113 000 people in the electorate of Wills. The honourable member for Clare represents 85 000 people in his electorate. We are about the business, not of geography, but of people. So I want to raise the general question of the potential trickery that is behind this Bill. 
The honourable member for Calare made great play on some of the recent history of the Bill. The facts are of course that since federation there was until about 1960 a very consistent philosophy behind electoral redistributions and mostly they stuck pretty close to the quotas- not completely, but in the redistributions over that period they kept pretty close to the quotas. When 
I became a member of this Parliament it was accepted by both the Liberal Party and the Labor Party that the 10 per cent differential was adequate. In most cases, as was pointed out by the honourable member, we did not go even as far as that. However there was a hard fought campaign by the Country Party over a period of years to have the differential increased to 20 per cent and it succeeded during a period when it had a tighter grip on the Liberal Party than it now has. All I can say in favour of the Liberal Party after watching it for 2 1 years is that it is nice to know that at one period- now- it has stuck to the principle and it has not given in to the area syndrome of the honourable members from the Country Party. 
What is it all about? The objective is representative government. What is representative government? First of all, I believe it is equality of representation. It has nothing much to do with quality as such. The citizens of Australia pick a number of us for many different reasons but when we sit in this House we each vote as one. It is one vote, one value and we are counted for ourselves and ourselves alone. Any system which interferes with the capacity of each one of us to represent a certain number of people has a great potential to be undemocratic. I am not taken in by the reference to Great Britain, the United States of America, Canada or anywhere else. We do not have to model ourselves upon them. It is not so distant in the past that Australia was regarded as one of the first democracies in the world and it is time that we got back to that general program. 
The objective is equality of access to political decision making and that can only be based upon simple arithmetic. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! That is not a valid point of order. I think the honourable member should know that, too. 
Actually I live wherever my work takes me. I even pass through the honourable member's electorate and I find that the people there wish they had the same kind of representation as have the people of Wills. The objective is equality of access to political decision making, equality of voice in this House. The only way to get that is to have equal voting strength in the electorates. There is a philosophy which supports a policy that there ought to be equal populations in electorates. That would be satisfactory from a point of view of people like me but I would regard it as potentially undemocratic. Therefore we have to accept the point that redistributions of electorates should be based upon the voting power of people and the voting power of their representatives in this House. I cannot understand how the people of Australia stand the trickery that has gone into the electoral systems in Australia. It has mostly been done by our opponents but not absolutely. Occasionally Labor Party governments have done the same. One has only to think of the sad history of electoral reform. Think of the House of Commons and the long battle to get decent elections for that place. The first fight was about getting manhood suffrage. I thought that as we were dealing with the Country Party and the system it likes to foster in political elections it might be worth while reminding its members that they are not the first people in history to indulge in trickery. I have here a book called  The Addled Parliament of 1614-  about contemporary with their philosophy. An election was being held. 

 Sir Henry Rich, a favourite of the King, was defeated in Norfolk. Rich entered the contest confidently, supported by letters from the Lord Chamberlain, Thomas Howard, Earl of Suffolk. The sheriff's county court opened at the castle in Norwich, the customary place, on 7 March at about seven o'clock in the morning with about three thousand freeholders assembled for the election, most of them supporters of Rich. But within half an hour, after some routine business had been dispatched, the sheriff's  deputy  suddenly adjourned the court to Swaffham, twenty miles away. The high sheriff, who was already at Swaffham, proceeded to hold the election there in the presence of a few freeholders assembled for the purpose. 
The National Country Party cannot do that now. What it does is to try to change the electoral boundaries to make up for being deprived of that opportunity. It has been a long haul through manhood suffrage, abolition of plural voting, removal of the property franchise, fixing up other qualifications, giving votes to the Aboriginal people of Australia, votes for women and recently votes for people over 18 years of age. In every instance in which we have attempted to bring more complete democracy to this Parliament and to the parliaments of Australia, we have been faced with the hot tempered opposition of honourable members on the other side of the House, particularly members of the Country Party. When we come to the question of electoral boundaries, I believe that a proper democracy means that the electorates must be as equal as possible in voting strength and there is no practical difficulty whatsoever in doing that. The census system in Australia is adequate enough. The counting is complete and the enrolment recording is absolute enough for that to be done, 
I should think, to within 1000 or so in the average electorate. I will be happier with the Electoral Act when it provides that electorates shall be as nearly as practicable equal in voting strength at the time when the electoral boundaries are drawn. Perhaps the extension of the 12 months provision for the new census figures to be issued should be complimented by a provision that the boundaries shall be redrawn 12 months before every election is due. It is time the Parliament established the principle of equality of electorates, the principle of one vote one value. Will the honourable member for Calare care to debate the issue around the country with any member on this side of the House. 
I suppose that he would. I would be very happy if he would come to public meetings in some electorates. 
I am sorry if my message is not getting through to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  He is a notably slow learner and we will be able to put him on our  Hansard  list after the next election. I think that a standing commission on the matter should be established, although I am not sure whether it should consist of High Court judges or be conducted under the present system. It should be a standing commission which keeps enrolments under constant review. My own view is that once the principle of as equal enrolments as possible is established there will be no gerrymander attempted by any of the parties in the House and that I would entrust most people with the job of drawing the boundary line. I hope that what has been fought by the National Country Party today is a rearguard action, that the concession made by the Liberal Party is a rearguard concession and that we will eventually come to the stage, not too far off, where Australian elections will be an example to the rest of the world as were the general principles of establishment of manhood suffrage, secret ballot and votes for women some three-quarters of a century ago. 
I want to raise several other matters concerning this question of representation. My colleagues in the National Country Party have been pretty anxious about the difficulties of people representing large areas. It is true that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  has a very great area to encompass. 
I was just getting to Wills because it is quite obvious that honourable members on the other side of the chamber are not quite conscious of what the situation is in electorates such as Wills. My electorate is some 11 square miles in area, perhaps a little less. It has approximately 1 13 000 to 120 000 people. It has a very strong migrant base with one ofthe largest Greek populations in Australia, one of the greatest concentrations of Italians and a very strong Turkish, Yugoslav and Lebanese population. These are human problems. We must equate the personal problems of people such as those and the representative difficulties of people who know not the language and whose language one knows not. 

 Honourable members interjecting 


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the House that the honourable member for Griffith took a point of order to the effect that he could not hear the honourable member for Wills. It would assist if honourable members on my right did not interject, as their interjections are overriding the words of the honourable member for Wills. I suggest, therefore, that those honourable members on my right cease interjecting. 
I shall continue the comparison. Wills is a very productive part of Australia. My friends from the National Country Party who represent some of the World 's most efficient primary producers- I think that is one of the facts of Australian life- will understand the comparable and complementary productivity of factories and people in areas such as I represent. It has an almost unbelievable concentration of manufacturing capacity. There are hundreds of factories, some of them very large and some of them quite small, but there is an almost unbelievable concentration of productive capacity and wealth inside those ten or eleven square miles. I represent that in the context of the present economic situation with regard to tariffs and such like. These industries are as difficult to represent as the open spaces of country electorates. The great concentration means a greater concentration required by the member and people such as myself to locate the problems and keep in touch with them. While I recognise the difficulties of travel and transport of members of the National Country Party, I think it is time that they recognised that the representative principle also covers the difficulties and problems of such people as I represent. I do not concede to any honourable member that my task is not just as difficult or just as demanding. I work at it as much as I am physically capable. I give it the spirit that I think the people request and I know that other honourable members in this place- I know a lot of them very well indeed, people with whom I have travelled on committees and so on- are doing the same. I may well believe that many of them are in grievous political error, but I think that the people of Australia on the whole are pretty well served by the devotion and dedication of people who come into this place. We do not gain anything for the Parliament by suggesting otherwise, or by suggesting that we should have some principle which departs from the democratic principle. 
What is the logic of the area principle- that is, say, 120 seats for an area of 3 million square miles? The extreme logic of it, nonsensically of course, would simply be to divide Australia into one hundred and twenty 25 000 square mile equal portions, regardless of the population. Even my friend, the honourable member for Calare, would say that that is not reasonable. There is no possible way to equate space and people. My friends opposite talk about the great difficulties of it. They cite all sorts of difficulties but we live in a world of communicationtelephones, travel, television and all the rest of it- and we are now in communication in a way which was not possible when the electorates were first drawn. I hope that the Parliament will reject the propositions contained in this Bill and that honourable members on the other side of the House who stood up, but not quite firmly enough, for a principle, will at last relent in thendeparture from the principle of one vote one value and proper and equal representation and reject the domination of the Country Party. 
I must admit that I support my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I would like the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  to explain the integrated significance, if I can put it that way, of clause 7, which is a very odd one to find in this piece of legislation, and clause 11, which deals with elections at large. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I want to take issue with the title of the Bill. 
It says this- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-I hope the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  will forgive me if I do not answer him at length because it is not necessary. It was the usual Liberal litany- up with profits; down with wages; the worker will not work, although he denied that at the end of his speech. That is not what he meant although that is what it sounded like at the beginning. I refer to a couple of points that he made. First of all he quoted some figures from manufacturing industry which show that the percentage of employment in that area is declining. He also quoted figures from primary industry which show that the percentage of employment in that area is declining and that the area of activity was transferring to the tertiary industries. That is apparent to most of us but the biggest contributor to the tertiary area is government and the whole theme of this Government's economic policy is to reduce government activity. The honourable member is flying in the face of his own analysis of the situation and producing further misery as far as I can see. I think that is a pretty important thought for the Parliament and for the honourable member. Fifty per cent of his sentiments were reactionary and SO per cent seemed to be commendable, an improvement on some of his colleague perhaps. The facts are, of course, that investment will continue and productivity per worker will continue to increase. 
It is a piece of mythology of Australian life that the productivity of the Australian worker is at a minimal level. It would be worth while to examine some figures with regard to productivity. At the Commonwealth Brickworks, which is a public activity, I calculated from some figures I received that the 35 workers employed there produced on an average 700 000 bricks per week. This is about 20 000 bricks per week per worker which, at a calculation of the standard average rate of about $120 per thousand, means $2,500 worth of production per worker in that institution. This includes the typist, the manager and the people on the floor. They are costing about $150 per week to do that. I understand that in the coal mines it is of the same order and that in some areas in the coal mining industry each miner is producing up to $400 of coal per day for an average wage of perhaps $30 per day. I think it is time that the people who are complaining bitterly, such as the honourable member for Bradfield, and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  whom I noticed on television the other night repeating the same furphies, made an analysis of exactly what is the productivity of the Australian worker in relation to everybody else on this planet. 
I wanted to talk tonight about the struggles of this Parliament to assert its own rights and its own power against forces that flow down through history which have betrayed the reasons for its very existence. I believe that 1 1 November 1975 was a serious defeat for this Parliament, not because I was one of the by-products or victims of it. If it means that we start to think about the constitutional structure of this country in the constructive way of some of my colleagues, particularly my friend, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who spoke earlier this evening, it probably has been worth while. There are noises coming from the other side of the House which indicate that Government supporters feel the same. The long history of Parliament, of course, has been a continuing struggle of the institution to survive against those who would subvert it and against those people who controlled the power structure of countries. We are the inheritors of the British parliamentary system. It is instructive to look at the struggles of the 17th century in which the Parliament asserted its rights eventually against the monarchy, against Charles I by his ultimate execution, against James II by his ultimate abdication and against any future transgression by monarchs in the arrangements that it made with William and Mary in 1688. It is instructive to read an Act which was passed at that time entitled an Act for the frequent meeting and calling of parliaments. It states: 
. from henceforth a parliament shall be holden once in three years at the least. 
In those days monarchs had access to funding from different sources and they could get along without parliaments and rule by decree. The struggle these days is to assert the right of this Parliament to be free from undue interference by others, whether it is the Governor-General acting in his capacity or the Senate acting in its capacity. I believe that the people of this country elect a House of Representatives to govern Australia. It is the executive instrument of the people of Australia and it ought to have the right to be able to do so unchallenged during its term of office. It ought to have a duty to get on with it. 
So I am speaking this evening to suggest that we take a close look at the question of constitutional reform and consider why the march to constitutional reform has been a slow march indeed. It is one of the miracles of this country that in the 1890s our predecessors in the various parliaments were able to arrange the gathering together of the colonial parliamentary representatives and produce a document which, up until recently, I though was fairly adequate in many areas as far as actual governmental techniques are concerned. Now, of course, we know that they are not. 
I know that some honourable members opposite think that the events that occurred on 1 1 
November 1975 were reasonable. It is not a bad idea to remember what they were. In the ordinary course of events the then Treasurer in August 1975 produced a Budget which passed through this House and was sent to the other place. That place, realising that there were opportunities for political gain, started to play ducks and drakes with it. It neither passed it nor refused to pass it; it neither deferred it nor made judgment upon it. It simply held the country to ransom over weeks of discord. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  of course, does not believe in discord in the community, and I am surprised that he supported what was going on at that time. Eventually the GovernorGeneral exercised the authority which he presumed to have, which honourable members opposite presumed him to have and which we on this side of the House say that he has no right to have- nor does he have it- and dismissed the Government, and in this House an act, I think, of what one could almost call parliamentary treason occurred. 
The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stood up in his place and said that he had been appointed the Prime Minister. The House passed a vote of no confidence in him forthwith. What ought any parliamentarian of honour have done? He should have told the GovernorGeneral that he could not carry on under any circumstances whatsoever. It might be said that, after all, he had organised it and that he would not do that. What surprised me was that a large number of his colleagues were willing the next day to accept commissions under those terms. I believe they acted in betrayal of their parliamentary duty. The 12 November Ministers, as one might call them, I believe have got a black mark on their record which they will wear while they are in this Parliament and while they are out of it, because they breached totally the parliamentary tradition. If you are going to be a Minister who administers you must have the confidence of the lower House, which in this case is the House of Representatives. 
So that brings me to the question: What are we going to do about it? I just want to say a word about the current fantasia, one might call it that or the philological exercise of saying that the problem will be solved by denning the country as a republic. One dictionary tells me that a republic is a state in which sovereignty does not reside in an hereditary ruler. Sovereignty in this place does not reside in an hereditary ruler. I suppose one might say that  Her  Majesty has denied that it was possible for her to intervene. She has informed my friend, the honourable member for 
Corio  (Mr Scholes),  of that in eloquent English. I can admit now that on the evening of the day on which we were removed from office I rang Buckingham Palace and spoke to her secretary. I told him what was going on to make my point about it. I think it was quite obvious from whatever came from Britain at that time that  Her  Majesty the Queen said: 'It is your own affair out there'. 
So who does rule this place? He is certainly not an hereditary ruler. He is an accidental one perhaps. Let us hope he is just an incidental one. So what are we? We are not a republic, I suppose, because in theory we have a monarch. We are not a democracy because we have an appointed official who answers to no one and may do what he will with this Parliament, as he did the other week when he prorogued it. It is worth while reading the implications of section 5 of the Constitution. Just imagine what would happen if, say, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  had that power to exercise over his electoral committee. The next time the matter of preselection came up he would dissolve the committee, prorogue it, prevent it from meeting, and so on until he had satisfactorily solved his precarious situation. We are inheritors ofthe feudal concept in the very acceptance of the fact that one man can have that kind of authority. 
I am almost gratified. I reached the conclusion recently that the honourable member did not have any. We have an executive fixation in this country. We have some religion about Cabinets. This is not the twentyfifth government, or whatever the figure is; we have got the Fraser Government here. Previously we had the Menzies Government and we had the Whitlam Government. I think it is an oddity in the Australian scene that we should identify governments by the names of people. I regard this republican fervour which is currently running through the country as irrelevant. It is a total misunderstanding of events of 1 1 November 1975 to think that the situation as we see it would be solved by suddenly calling ourselves a republic. Unless we change the power base in the Constitution there is no point in calling it anything at all. My own view is that we have the Commonwealth of Australia and that we should change the present structure. 
So I am advocating this evening the passage of a Supremacy of Parliament Act- call it what you will- to make provision for 3 things in particular. The first is to alter the Constitution so as to provide that Ministers shall have the confidence of the House of Representatives. I do not think we need to alter the Constitution to do that. A member of this Parliament is a creature and the creation of this Parliament. It should be possible to define the duties of members of this Parliament in carrying out any administrative act. It is true that His Excellency the Governor-General may appoint a member of this Parliament to some particular function, but it is also true that we could have it included in the rules that that also meant automatic expulsion from Parliament. I believe that is a very important principle and we ought to assert it. 
There is one other proviso that I think we must have, and that is in relation to the duties of public servants. One of the depressing things about what occurred on 11 November 1975 was the readiness with which we all accepted the authority that had flowed on that occasion. I did and the officers of the department which I administered did. But it was not for a couple of days, I suppose, that I realised the inherent dangers in that- that simply a handing down of a message from on high meant that everybody accepted it and that there was a total change. The public servants who had been administering the country under the Labor Government, immediately accepted the orders of the newly appointed Ministers, none of whom had the confidence of this Parliament. I think we should make it clear in the Public Service Act that the Public Service administers its responsibilities only under authority stemming from Ministers who have the confidence of the House of Representatives. 
Then we come to the relationship between the 2 Houses. Surely it is time we got on with that. On my first afternoon in this place, 15 February 1956, the Governor-General said: 
The election has left my Government with a substantially larger majority in the House of Representatives but with a Senate in which the Government will by July not have a majority. 
Then he went on to describe the complications which arise from that situation. He went on to say: 
The present position is that any conflict between the 2 Houses can be resolved only by the slow, cumbrous and not very satisfactory procedure of a double dissolution such as occurred in 1951. My advisers believe that the relations between the 2 Houses should be reviewed. They are of opinion- 
Some of them are sul! sitting here- that a government requires a reasonable term of office and a reasonable period of stability in which it may give effect to its long-range plans for the nation. 
That was said 20-odd years ago. Subsequently a Joint Committee of Constitutional Review was appointed. Honourable members might find it instructive to read the pages of the report of that Committee which refer to the settlement of deadlocks. Some of the people sitting on that committee were the Prime Minister at the time, the Rt  Hon Sir Robert  Menzies, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and  Senator Wright.  The Committee recommended that in the event of a dispute between the 2 Houses the Governor-General, acting on the advice of the Federal Executive Council, should call a joint sitting straight away. That would seem to me to be a reasonable and logical solution of the problem. Of course, if a government did not have the numbers in a joint sitting perhaps it would have no right to proceed anyhow. I admit that in 1975 it would have been a finely balanced meeting of the Parliament. I am happy to see that provision as a democratic protective device. I believe it is important and urgent that we take the steps necessary to change those features of the Constitution. 
I briefly remind honourable members of the democratic threats that lie within the Constitution. For instance, under section 5 of the Constitution the Governor-General may decide upon the times for holding the sessions of the Parliament, by proclamation or otherwise. He can prorogue the Parliament and he can dissolve it. What we decide upon here and what the Constitution dictates flow on for decade after decade. It is now 77 years since the Constitution came into operation. Whilst we might say that certain things will not happen, let us presume that the Governor-General decided to run the country on his own; that he decided to suspend the sittings of the Parliament tonight and to reconvene the Parliament in 12 months' time for a few hours to comply with the Constitution. In the meantime, every 3 months he could appoint whomsoever he wished from wheresoever he wished to administer the country. I see an honourable member shaking his head. He might be just testing it or he might be saying that such a thing could not happen here. Honourable members should not believe it. Some 15 months ago we did not think that a Governor-General would exercise the sort of authority that was exercised. We live in a world in which this kind of thing is happening pretty consistently and the unexpected and the unbelievable do occur. 
I suggest to the House that we should apply ourselves pretty rapidly to making sure that the control of the destiny of this institution lies with its membership, which is answerable directly to the people and to no one else. It is not a question of monarchies, republics, governors-general or such like; it is a question of the supremacy of the 
Parliament. I regard the 4 referenda that are before the people now as of moderate importance. The one relating to the Territories is important. I think the 2 referenda relating to simultaneous elections and the replacement of senators are gimmicks. Until we resolve the question of the relationship between the 2 Houses there can be no continuing or guaranteed stability. Until we resolve the question of the supremacy and the power of this Parliament there can be no continuing stability in our democratic institutions. Until we do something about the nexus provisions- those dealing with the relationship between the number of members in the 2 Houses- we will still be controlled by ideas that were relevant in the 1890s but are no longer relevant. 
My view is that we will not be able to mobilise our electoral organisations to fight effectively for those referenda proposals unless we put into the ring something in which they can see some sense. Most of the people in my organisation and, I should have thought, in the kindred organisations of the other parties represented in my electorate agree that it is nonsense to reduce the number of House of Representatives members from Victoria at a time when the population is rising. So I appeal to honourable members to think very carefully about the nexus issue. They should not be disheartened by the fact that such a proposition was lost in 1 967; they should get on with the job. I think that 2 1 May, or whenever it is to be, is too early for these referenda proposals to be put to the people. I played a very active part in the referendum concerning Aborigines which was held in 1967. It took 10 years to prepare. 
-That is right. With the help of the honourable member for Robertson and many other people, we carried the day. I remember meetings at which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth), Mr Jack  Kane- that other leading democrat from New South Wales- and I were on the same platform, or almost the same platform. We mobilised collective opinion and we carried the day. That is the only way that constitutional amendments will be passed. 
I do wish that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  would not use the word 'dole' in such a contemptuous way. I do not think that he really meant it in that way but its use in that manner sounds dreadful particularly to people of my generation and to the people on unemployment benefit. I only hope that when his circumstances change and he becomes involuntarily unemployed at the end of this Parliament he will be treated with proper respect. The other point I make on the question of the pension is that the Labor Government changed substantially the relationship between the amount of pension paid and average weekly earnings. They are the facts based on arithmetic. 
I rise this evening mainly to respond to a question asked in the Senate yesterday by a very distinguished senator, a former  President  of the Senate and the present  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. From reading  Hansard  one might say that the question asked was innocent enough. He wanted to know about the activities of a member of the Legislative Research Service,  Mr Jim  Dunn. I regard it as an attempt to intimidate  Mr Dunn  and other officers of this Parliament in the performance of what they choose to see as their duty and in the pursuance of a greater understanding of the work they have to perform. It happens, as I understand it, that  Mr Dunn  used his furlough in January, and surely no one here would try to inhibit anyone in the Service using his furlough as he wishes. I understand he is currently taking more of the furlough that is due and leave of various sorts. 

 Mr Dunn has served this country well, not only in his previous capacity in the area of foreign affairs or in his general duties in the Parliamentary Library but also by his public activities with respect to the situation in Timor. I believe that this Parliament is better served by officers who become public figures on public issues than by people who do not. There are some areas of parliamentary activity in respect of which one might say that a low profile is desirable, but the Legislative Research Service is a place in which we want people of competence, integrity and courage. They have to be able to tell aU of us what the facts are. That is why it was established. I remember the debate at the time in which I said that, with all due respect to younger people, I was not so keen on having bright young people straight out of universities and would be quite happy to see in the Service people with a totally different political view from my own. 
I hope that this attempt to inhibit  Mr Dunn  and his work will cease, and that instead we will encourage officers of this Parliament who achieve some distinction in some field or who have something to offer in some field to carry on with their work. I understand that one other officer of the Parliament is prominent in the field of criminology and that there is a chance that he could become the international  chairman  of an organisation but perhaps there will be inhibitions placed on him which will prevent this. I hope that honourable members in the Parliament will protect officers against what I think is an attempt by this very distinguished senator to inhibit the work of  Mr Jim  Dunn. I am grateful for the work that he has done and I respect the integrity with which he has carried it out. I have been able to use his services since he has been with the Service. I was in Portugal at the time he was there and know that it was a sacrificial exercise on his part. For example, he had to pay his own expenses. He was supported, I think, by some organisations in respect of fares but he sacrificed his furlogh in the pursuit of a greater understanding of the work area in which he is employed. I cannot understand how in any way it is disadvantageous to this Parliament or the Legislative Research Service for a person to become more informed about a particular area in which we all have an interest. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The point that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  raised of course is important- the enormous obligations that will flow from the increase in the size of Australia's territory as a result of the application of the 200-mile zone. I am always intrigued when I find a member of the Liberal Party talking about morality in the international sense. That is the last thing Liberals ever bring to any of their international dealings. I rose this evening to make a brief comment upon the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I am one of its customers. Like everbody else in this House, I am one of its victims. I was going to say that it is one of the more inefficient of Australia's public utilities. Perhaps it is one of the most inefficient. Perhaps 'inefficient' is not the right word; 'insensitive' is the one I would use. I am the proprietor of a telephone in this city. On Thursday of last week it was discovered to be not ringing in. I was not surprised when nobody telephoned me- there were no problems for which I was responsible- but I found that other people were disappointed that they were unable to raise me on the telephone. 
That was on Thursday of last week. On Friday I checked out the telephone and found that it did not ring in. So I advised Telecom. This was at about 8 o 'clock in the morning or a little earlier. I suggested that if a Telecom representative could come within the next hour or two I could be there to let him into the house and if the instrument were faulty it could be fixed. Telecom could not do that; it was impossible. After all, what is a few hundred million dollars profit when it comes to servicing a customer! Subsequently I raised the matter with Telecom continuously. Today my staff raised it with Telecom. Yesterday my staff raised it with Telecom in Melbourne, but unfortunately no one is available before 9 o'clock in the morning. You know,  Mr Speaker,  that members of the Opposition, in trying to cope with the eccentric behaviour of this Government, have to start early enough to try to save Australia from its aberrations; so none of us will be home after 9 o'clock in the morning. I think it is a downright disgrace that one of the great public utilities of this country, which is one of the most expensive utilities of this country, should be so bereft of its public duty as to be unable to compete with the other utilities in this city in the service that is supplied. 
As I have pointed out to the people of Telecom on other occasions, they live in a city in which if anyone has a need for a public service- electricity, water, the fire brigade or even the policethere will be somebody there quick and lively. I think it is disgraceful that we allow this situation to continue. I hope that honourable members opposite will start to pressure the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to accept his responsibilities instead of turning all the resources of his Department to the business of knocking off other people's radio sets. 

 Mr BRYANT I think that one of the great disasters of the change to a commission is not so much that it removed it from parliamentary responsibility but that it allows the Minister to pass the buck. I have raised the matter with his office staff, who of course are courteous in the extreme, and I take it that something will happen in the next month or so to restore my telephone service. 
I want to raise another matter now. It is the insufferable impertinence of the Indonesian Government which is implicit in the demand that we silence a member of the parliamentary staff in what he considers to be his duty and in the pursuit of knowledge associated with his duty, even while he is on furlough. I do not think it is a question of whether  Mr Dunn  is right or wrong; it is a question of all sorts of decent international morality and our own decent national dignity. I think that our man in Jakarta betrayed his duty to this country when he accepted the protest and transmitted it to Australia. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  as I understand it, in this House today gave his answer in such an equivocal way I think he also betrayed his duty.  Mr Speaker,  I hope that you will look into the question of whether this has a potential for interference with the rights and the duties of the staff of this Parliament and that the Indonesian 
Government is told that we regard its action as an impertinence. I know that there are some honourable members opposite who think that the Indonesians have rights in Timor. Even if they think Indonesia has rights in Timor, it has no right to interfere with the activities of an Australian citizen. I regard it as a piece of insufferable impertinance flowing from the craven attitude of this Government to the actions of the Indonesian Government in Timor. 
-We are on the annual wander down the apple and pear orchard path without seeming to get anywhere. It seems to me, having listened to this debate for some time, that we hear, almost  ad nauseum,  remarks from honourable members on the other side of the House about how we have to re-adjust, we have to do this, or how we have to take steps in some direction or other. But we never take any new steps; we just continue the mixture as before. We wait for something to turn up. One of the most serious inflictions upon the apple and pear growers, as it is upon everybody else in the primary and manufacturing industries, is the disastrous economic policy of this Government, which is dedicated to rising unemployment, continuing inflation and non-government action wherever it is needed. One of the other great disadvantages for the people in primary industry is the support of the National Country Party. It is difficult for Australians to take seriously anything that is sponsored by the National Country Party although one could hardly describe this exercise as being sponsored by the Country Party. There is one member of the National Country Party in the House and one Minister belonging to that Party. As for the Tasmanians, they are so deeply concerned about this matter that there are two of them in the House. 
-The other honourable member does not look like a Tasmanian. We are discussing a great social enterprise which involves a very large percentage of the Australian primary industry work force. It embraces not only the work force but also the social implications that flow from the enterprise into the towns in which primary industry is involved; into the canneries, in which people work; and into the fruit marketing system and all the rest of it. We cannot just go on drifting. The Labor Party on this occasion recommends to the House that the subsidy be raised to a point which would maintain something of the value of the money, according to inflation. I understand that the average farmer farms a block of land of about 60 acres. I think there are somewhere between 5 million and 6 million fruit trees in the apple orchards of Australia and close to 3 million trees in the pear orchards of Australia and that the number is being reduced for all sorts of reasons. There is no doubt that the average income of the people who work in and own the orchards is miserable in the extreme and unworthy of an Australian community. What are we going to do about it? 
I listened to the remarks of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  I thought that he would bring forward some propositions to attack the general areas of disability that are imposed upon the fruit growers. It would not matter whether they are producing only for the Australian market or for the export market or anywhere else. There are inflicted upon the people in that industry, as there are in many other industries, these problems that flow from disabilities in shipping and all the rest of it. That is what I propose to discuss for a moment. 
I hope that if the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  or any other honourable member from Tasmania who is so deeply concerned about this matter is to speak in this debate, he will put forward some propositions. As I understand it, it costs approximately $1 a case for labour in the fruit industry. That is just the figure which has been given to the Opposition today by a producer. It may be more; it may be less. But there is nothing much that can be done about the cost of labour unless, of course, one does something about the mechanisation and the re-equipment of the system behind it. I recognise that it is a labour-intensive industry, at least in the orchard, but the information that I gather from inquiries around country areas is that, in the actual re-equipment of farms in Australia, whether it is an orchard or any other type of farm, there has been a total collapse. It may well be that we could reduce some of this content by a new approach to the financing of re-equipment of farms. 
Then there is shipping area. Figures provided by the Industries Assistance Commission show that in the 10 or 12 years between 1961 and 1973-74, the cost of shipping rose from 39 per cent, I think it was, to 59 per cent or thereabouts. What can we do about that situation? I do not think that it is a totally intractable area. 
Then there is the financing side. What does it cost an average fruit grower to finance his business? The average grower is paying at the moment about 13 per cent interest I am one who thought that the former Labor Government should have taken more effective control of the financial structure of Australia and used the various powers available to it under the Banking Act and the Financial Corporations Act and the control of a very large sector of the banking system, through the Commonwealth Bank and other instruments, to do something about this situation. Thirteen per cent of $1,000 is, of course, $130. For $30,000, the annual interest would be close to $4,000. That is about $80 a week to start with. The grower cannot win. This is one area which the Government should attack. It could either direct the banking system to make finance available at a lower rate of interest or it could do so by some kind of system financed from Consolidated Revenue or some other source. I understand that the New Zealand farmer can get finance at about 2 per cent interest. That makes a substantial difference to his cost structure in comparison with our own. 
Then there are the handling charges. I know that my friends on the waterfront are the people who get the principal blame for increases in handling charges. But recently the Prices Justification Tribunal told us that the stevedoring industry has to reduce its charges. The Tribunal had put before it the remarkable evidence about the directors' benefits in the Patrick Stevedoring Company. Some $600,000 or $700,000 was shared between four or five of them. I think that the same situation applies also in the packaging area. We have to begin to do something about these costs. 
Let us look at the shipping industry, for instance. There is something wrong with the shipping industry of the world. The shipping companies are in the hands of multimillionaires, great consortiums and some of the richest people in the world. We, of course, have made ourselves a hostage of the shipping companies of the world. The Australian ship ownership is still minute compared with the ship owners of any other trading nation of our magnitude. We are doing our best totally to annihilate our own shipbuilding industry. We have done very little about increasing our marketing capacity through competition. 
Consider the Japanese shipping lines and their integration with other parts of the industrial base of Japan. We are probably financing Japan's exports to Australia by the way in which we pay high shipping costs and so on. If we are going to tackle this problem we have to get to the heart of the matter and examine the whole cost structure. Then we may well be in a situation where we can put our fruit on the markets in competition with the rest of the world. We will be uphill, of course, competing with the growers of Spain. They have a smaller wage factor and they are closer to the big markets, as indeed are South Africa, Chile and the Argentine. But there are markets in the world which surely lay untapped. This is still a hungry world. It seems to me that in a world facing a food shortage a country such as this should be able to find markets. The world is perennially short of food. There is every prospect that the shortage will reach the acute level of famine in many parts of the world in another 20 or 30 years. So we should not be reducing our capacity to produce food. 
I know that fruit of the nature that we are discussing is perhaps not part of everybody's diet, but that is a matter which I think can be dealt with by making that fruit available around the world. What have we done in that regard? The markets of Europe, of course, are and will be difficult to enter. The European Economic Community has become a closed corporation in some ways. North America is fractionally useful on occasions. What about some of the neglected areas? Some 12 or 13 years ago I travelled to Europe via Russia-Siberia. Siberia has a population of some 20 million to 30 million people. That country has a rising standard of living. Compared with the rest of that part of Asia, it has a fairly high standard of living. I remember asking for some fruit in the city of Irkutsk. The hotel in which I was staying was a pretty good one, but I received this reply: 'Fruit, tinned fruit?' I said: 'Have you no fresh fruit?' I was told: 'You do not get fresh fruit in Siberia '. Why? It is 4000 miles or so by rail across Russia, so it is very difficult to bring it from the west. That market was closed at that stage because we had gone through the nonsense of the Petrov inquiry and so forth. I remember that we had almost established a market for butter with Siberia at that stage, but it was closed to us. It is about 14 days sail from Australia to mainland Siberia. As far as I know, we had done nothing then and we have done little or nothing since to try to gain access to those markets. 
Of course, in the other markets of Asia people are not accustomed to the kinds of fruit about which we are talking today, but their rising standard of living is moving towards the stage where we will have the opportunity to market all sorts of Australian foodstuffs. We have to develop new forms of processing of our fruits so we can make those markets available to us. That has been one of the more depressing areas of Australian activity over the last few years. I know that as a government we did not find an answer to the problem. It was under thought process at various times. But the present Government has been in office on and off for a long while. If we are to get our fruit-and other foodstuffs on to the markets of the world we have to take a close look at the transport system and we have to do something about the processing of the fruit. I suppose 2 areas in which we ought to be able to do something new and which could be most profitable would be the way in which we market the fruit and the way in which we finance the operation. I do not see any future for most of our primary industries unless we can embark upon new ways of doing these things. 
Certainly we ought to become more aggressive in marketing. There is no reason we should not have Australian fruit shops around the world, owned, controlled and developed through some marketing corporation or other, in just the same way as in this country we are able to buy goods direct from manufacturing firms which are owned and controlled overseas. I understand that the dairying industry is doing something along those lines. It seems to me that for the time being, until we know how to handle the great social and economic changes taking place in the world, we have to face the fact that these problems will remain with us. I think that we have to approach the problems in some of these areas with more optimism and in the belief that we will solve some of the problems of getting the excess food of the world to the hungry people of the world. 
What depresses me about a debate in these instances is its repetitive nature. I suppose if I turned up the speech of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)-  he has been a fairly useful member of this Parliament in his participation in these debates over the years- I would find that he said much the same things then. I do not think that is good enough. We have to do better than that when it comes to these great problems. I would like to cite an example of the total incapacity of the industry even to supply a market which is readily available. A couple of years ago I attended a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in Hobart. As the House is well aware, I was the Minister for the free city of Canberra at that time. I attended that meeting, as I attended many ministerial meetings. I always took the opportunity to do so, and I hope that I profited by it. I feel certain, of course, that the other people attending the meeting profited from my attendance. I recall the very grave worries and anxieties of the people of Tasmania, and of the Minister, in regard to the failure of the people of Australia to take the opportunity to consume Tasmanian apple products. I took his message to heart. We were given an apple as we left the conference. When I went to the dining room in the Tasmanian Parliament- a very pleasant dining room with the best of company- I was asked: 'What will you have to drink, Sir?' Of course, eschewing alcohol- I feel that all other honourable members should do that too- I said: 'I will have apple juice, please'. There was a stunned silence and then there was a drifting off. The very apologetic reply came back: 'I am sorry,  Sir, we  have none'. I have asked for apple juice pretty continuously since on aircraft, in hotels, in restaurants and in parliamentary dining rooms. In this parliamentary dining room I think that we have got it pretty consistently, but not always. I have asked for it in the shops, because I think that it is the most desirable of drinks when taken in quantities of one or two glasses. 
I would say that this is just an example of the failure of all Australian industry. Primary industry is probably more conservative than are other industries in establishing and developing its own markets. So I am looking forward to the day when this Parliament will begin to examine these problems in detail and turn its attention to all of those areas which we can attack without having to be too revolutionary. After all, I would not ask honourable members opposite to be too dramatic or to take up too many bright ideas all at once. But surely in the areas of marketing, finance and new processes at least we ought to be able to be more adventurous than we are, as we should be in the questions of trying to find new markets and new forms of financial arrangements so that we can supply food to the hungry parts of the world. That ought to be our task as one of the wealthy countries of the world. 
I do not think Australia is a lucky country. This country was not built by luck; it was built by hard work, good management and I suppose because of its isolation. I speak of management at the grass roots level. The country is so strong in so many ways and has developed such good techniques in so many others that it has been able to survive even the kind of governments with which we have been afflicted for the last 30 years. Fortunately we had 3 years of real, solid, straightforward adventurous management and so we were able to put the country on the right track. 
As I resume my seat I remind honourable members opposite of the things they said they would do only some 18 months ago- reduce unemployment, reduce inflation, restore consumer confidence and all those things. There are some disastrous failures in the governments of the world but there is none which has fallen so far below the level of aspiration that it raised in the hearts of its people as has this one. I can only offer to the apple and pear industry the support of the Australian Labor Party in its attempts to find a solution to the problems of economic and social change and in holding the ground while we find proper solutions to these questions. 
Firstly, I wish to support the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  about the late  Senator Hartley  Cant. I rose tonight simply to place on the record a letter with reference to Timor that I delivered to the Prime Minister of Portugal in January. This is in response to some of the things that are going on at the moment. It indicates to the people concerned and to the Indonesian Government in particular that in Australia there are people who will not knuckle under to Indonesian threats. I think that what has happened in the last few days is an insufferable impertinence. I do not know for how long the Australian Government intends to allow the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and his Department to act as puppets for the Indonesian Government. I delivered this letter to the office of the Prime Minister of Portugal in Lisbon: 
Parliament of Australia House of Representatives 
Parliament House Canberra A.C.T. 2600 Tel. 72 1211 14 January 1977 
The  Hon. Dr Mario  Soares, Prime Minister of Portugal, National Assembly, Lisbon, Portugal 
My dear Prime Minister, 
I have come to Lisbon to press on you as  stongly  as I can the necessity of your Government rejecting all demands by Indonesia to have your approval for the integration of East Timor into that Republic. 
The Indonesian Government has carried out an act of naked aggression against the helpless people of East Timor and the Indonesian Armed Forces have committed many atrocities in doing so. I appeal to you in the name of humanity and on  behalf of  many of my colleagues in the Parliament of Australia to use your influence at the United Nations and elsewhere to have the Indonesian troops withdrawn and for the people of Timor to be given the opportunity to decide their future for themselves in accordance with the principles of the United Nations. 
Many Australians are afraid that if the aggression against Timor goes unchallenged that the Indonesian Government which has already absorbed West New Guinea-now West Irian- will make demands upon the newly independent nation of Papua New Guinea. 
This letter and my presence here in Lisbon confirms  the  cable sent you some months ago on the subject to which a number of my colleagues were signatories. 
Yours sincerely, GORDON M. BRYANT, M.P. (I am Chairman of the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee of the Labor Party in the Parliament of Australia. ) 
I hope that honourable members, no matter what their feelings may be about the legitimacy or otherwise of Indonesian action, will demand that the Australian Government resist the present knuckling under to the Indonesian Government and that Government's interference in all sorts of matters. Earlier I noticed that my colleague the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  wanted to say something in this debate, so I will have to sit down now. However, before doing so, I suggest to my friend the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  that a good example of stamps produced by a small community which lives on a small dot of land is the stamps of Norfolk Island. They are always very tastefully designed; they are always effective; and with penny postage rates the Norfolk Islanders make a good profit out of their postage system. 
-I hope that this is the beginning of a thought provoking and thoughtful debate about the Parliament, its membership, its relationship to Ministers, the relationship of Ministers to their departments, the duties of officers of the Public Service to the 
Parliament, and the duties and strength of inquiries by parliamentary committees. It is now 3 years or more since the Auditor-General first brought down his report concerning the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It was tabled in this House. I knew it was about to be presented. I could not ascertain any of its contents. I had been told by my friend  Senator Cavanagh  that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs had been making all sorts of critical remarks about my administration. I was sitting in the House, suddenly the report was handed down, and I was under fire without being given a chance to answer. Subsequently the Joint Committee of Public Accounts - 
-That is right; the AuditorGeneral 's report. I am not complaining about the Public Accounts Committee. That was 3 years ago. The Public Accounts Committee began its investigations in April 1974, a few days before the Parliament was dissolved. The departmental officers went before that Committee and made statement after statement about me, my administration and my general behaviour. I now stand here to refute those statements in public. They were wrong. The officers gave incorrect evidence to a parliamentary committee. 
So after 3 years, 1 100 pages of evidence, 339 pages of report, statements from the AuditorGeneral, statements from various departments of state, statements from the Public Service Board and statements from the Treasury, I will try in the 12 or 13 minutes left to me to give an adequate answer. If I cannot answer it all, perhaps I will stimulate some discussion. What I have to say this afternoon demonstrates, I think, a distressing malaise in Australian public administration. I think it demonstrates gross intellectual sloppiness at high levels in the Australian administration. How was it that a department of state, with all of the resources at its disposal, placed before the Public Accounts Committee information, asserted to be evidence, which was wrong in fact? How was it that a departmental head repeated that information without checking it? How was it- I regard this to be more serious- that the Auditor-General quoted that information in his report? The report was uncritical and did not display a total acceptance of it, but to put it in the Auditor-General 's report is to give it the strength of holy writ in this community. How is it that the Press has not managed to examine these things in much more detail? 1 have no time to deal with that particular aspect of the matter now, except to say that apart perhaps from one or two perceptive articles- one of which appeared in the  Canberra Times-  the Press has shown little understanding of what it is all about. 
I speak here this afternoon for the purpose of issuing a challenge to the integrity of Australian public administration and asking this Parliament to take serious note of what I have to say and what has occurred. I wish to cite a number of passages in the Auditor-General's report which instance the excuses the Department gave for its failure to carry out proper procedures. The report states: 
In certain cases the Depanment has sought to excuse its non-compliance with established procedures on the grounds that it became aware of ministerial decisions involving expenditures only when the accounts for the expenditures concerned were received . . . 
The Auditor-General said: 
While appreciating the difficulties in circumstances such as these . . . 
And so on. That was in reference to several matters to which I shall refer, to the purchase of blankets and barges. Dealing with the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee elections in 1973 or 1974 the Auditor-General said that the main reasons that such shortcomings occurred were that the instructions could not be carried out completely in order to meet the deadline for the actual enrolment set by the then Minister'. He referred to the trawlers and said: 
In relation to the accounts paid from Canberra, the commitments were entered into by a consultant to the then Minister and the Department had no knowledge of the commitment until receipt of the accounts; 
Other instances are mentioned. The statements were wrong. I challenge this Parliament to do something about it. The Auditor-General is the paragon of probity. He would be naive indeed if he thought that he could put such things in a report and have them quoted without their having a serious reflection upon me. I have here page after page of headlines from the newspapers of Australia in which I am the guilty person. This afternoon I have not all that much time with which to deal with all the matters. But I insist that this is a fundamental question of the integrity of Australian public administration. I am not going so far as to say that all this was done with malice and malevolence. I think some of it was done with attitudes of resentment and hostility to me. But that is of little moment. What I am talking about is the intellectual challenge of hall. 
I have been in public life for a long while. I have been a member of this Parliament for 2 1 years. I do not remember ever saying anything in public to harm another person which I could not support with facts. Yet a department of state prepared its documents, the permanent head asserted certain things, the Auditor-General quoted them, the Press of course noted them and the Public Accounts Committee listened to them. I do not think any of that action was carried out with the kind of intellectual integrity I hope I bring to my duties. That is what 1 have to say this afternoon. I put those people on challenge and I put this Parliament on challenge. What are we going to do about that? The evidence given to the Public Accounts Committee by the head of the Department and by his senior officers supported by other officers was on oath. Just take one simple example. 
It was stated that there was no problem in obtaining blankets but there were orders for 8427 blankets in this period, none of which passed through the Department. This was totally wrong. I shall table documents later to show that it can be determined that what I say is true. My honourable friend opposite who I know brought a good deal of conscientious understanding examination to this matter when he was on the Public Accounts Committee will understand if I say that it was obligatory upon me to remain silent. Evidence having been given before the Public Accounts Committee I did issue a statement in about early 1974 just before the Parliament was dissolved to say that in due course I would refute the allegations, and I have refuted them. But that was in December 1 974. Of course I objected but I am putting it here on the line before the Parliament. This is my first opportunity to answer in my proper forum and I am doing it. Take those issues which are mentioned in the report. The Public Accounts Committee has not seen fit to criticise or to be non-critical of the fact that this evidence was given to it. I ask: How can one believe anything if that is the situation? I put that before the Public Accounts Committee. There are other questions but I shall perhaps leave that part of the matter at that. 
I have no criticism of the style in which the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee produced the report or spoke to it. I am now going to express disagreement with some of the Committee's conclusions. It is said that I did not establish effective communication with the permanent head. I suppose it is assumed that we are both more or less guilty. What evidence did the Committee have of that? Somewhere in paragraph 672 the report states that evidence shows that the problems and difficulties in establishing liaison flowed from certain attitudes which developed between the Minister's office and the Department. The only evidence I can find of a concrete nature through the transcript- the 1 100 pages of it which I duly read- is at page 963 where Captain Sam Benson gave evidence. He was a former member of this House. He is one of Australia's most experienced mariners. The question was raised about relationships between the office and flow of information. Captain Benson said: 
Now that you have brought this up,  Mr Bryant  was very fair about these matters, because he used to have periodic conferences, like a good administrator should, and we would meet in his office. There would always be one, and up to 3, representatives of the permanent head of the Department and we would talk about these matters. I remember on one occasion there was a  Mr Thomas  and a  Mr Gant,  and everybody knew what was going on. 
I think the evidence would show that there was no failure on my part to communicate. I spent a lot of time doing so. There was no possible justification for anyone in the Department not to know what our policies were, where I stood and what I wanted done. I can give one simple demonstration of the difficulty of it all. It was only months after I ceased to be the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that I visited the Commonwealth Bank office in Civic. The bank manager said to me: 'This of course was formerly the office of  Dr Coombs'.  There was an office there all those months hardly ever occupied. And I never had anywhere to sit in the Department. I was never offered the use of that office. This is the way I proceeded: Firstly, there were standing orders in my office that the door was open, in the first instance to my colleagues in this place and to people from the Department. I cannot imagine a situation where the departmental head making a request to see me would be refused or his dropping in to see me and being refused. I suggest that most members of this Parliament would believe that is the way I operated. I think again- it is a soft impeachment- that the Public Accounts Committee could have called my staff and asked how it operated. Unfortunately I do not think the Committee did that. I said that we sent copies of all documents to the Department. In almost every instance in which I travelled across this country there was a departmental officer with me. I had continuous conferences with the departmental people. At the end of a letter I wrote in June 1973 to the Secretary- it is on page 102 of volume one of my original submission- I said that I wanted to make it clear that it is the Department's duty to keep me informed of all operations carried out under my authority, because that is the way I have been trained. 
In the report there is a reference to my style of administration. It is not unduly critical. I do not know that it is even critical in emphasis or even in context but perhaps I should explain the situation. Firstly let me state the principles upon which I proceed, best expressed by the last line of Tennyson's Ulysses: 
To strive, to seek, to find and not to yield. 
In my submission there are 300 pages altogether, 100 pages of statement and 200 pages of documents. If one reads through the documents one will find that from the beginning I asked that strong financial control be exercised over funds distributed through our Department. I had had a long experience in Aboriginal affairs and I knew most of the organisations. I knew that they were not experts in handling matters of this sort. One will see in the documents too that I wanted to give the Department organisational strength on the ground, that I wanted to have the Aboriginal people involved in it. I wanted to have established a system of control of funds and reporting on organisations. My colleagues who were with me on the Party committee at the time will support that. One of the things that I wanted to do was to know what went on. I suggest that if honourable members compare the Hay report of last year with the documents I have tabled, they will find that  Mr Hay  is now advocating that what should be done is what I told the Department and its officers 4 years ago to do. I hope that I can have an extension of time - 
-One of the questions I put in that memorandum was: 
Are some of the things I saw at Papunya on the same continent and conducted by the same Government as controls Canberra? 
So that was the situation in which we found ourselves. We embarked upon a program of trying to change it all. Our programs came under great attack. We were charged with spending public money like water as someone said on the television only last night. I recommend that honourable members look at the  Hansard  of 1 1 October 1973 to see the great list of programs and projects that we funded through State and private organisations in other areas, and see which one of those was a waste of money and ought not to have been carried out. We set out to involve the Aboriginal people themselves very closely in administration. I wanted to see them in the Department. I tried to establish a field force of at least 100 of them. We created the National Aboriginal Congress. I know that there was great debate about that. There was debate in our Party as there was in the Parliament. It was my estimation that this was the only way in which we would get the Aboriginal people involved at the proper level. 
So in considering the administration, there were 3 areas that had to be involved which normally are not involved. One was the Parliament itself. I was instrumental in the establishment of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal affairs. Another area was the Party itself. So we had a sub-committee of the Party. The other area was the Aboriginal people themselves and that is where the NAC came in. I say that these were great and important developments, that the criticisms of those times are invalid and that the word 'disaster' as applied to them is totally irrelevant. We set out upon a program of change for the Aboriginal people of Australia which no one will put back. I do not believe that this Government will proceed at the same pace and in the same direction as I would Uke it to do, but I know that the force of circumstances has so changed Australian society that we cannot put back the clock in Aboriginal affairs. I had been involved in Aboriginal affairs for a long while. I was the campaign director for the referendum on Aborigines in 1967. I was a foundation member of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. I had been a member of a select committee here. There was no excuse for anybody in the Department not to know what we were about. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  an article which, honourable members might well say was prepared with a fair amount of prophetic insight but more in optimism than anything else. In 1967 I wrote an article which was published in  Smoke Signals  called 'If I were a Minister'. I seek leave to have that article incorporated in  Hansard. 
There is one final document I should like to incorporate in  Hansard  to answer those statements that I was unavailable to the Department or to the departmental head. It is simply a list of appointments with departmental officers and a covering note from  Mrs King,  who was my private secretary at the time. The list sets out the dates on which I saw departmental officers by appointment between June 1973 and September 1973. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  said he was enthusiastic. He did not sound all that enthusiastic. On the whole I am prepared to agree that there are worse fields of destruction being wrought by this Government on previous programs than there is in this area of assistance to other countries. I agree with everybody who has said that Australia relatively does pretty well in this field and that compared with other people we do not do too badly. I can only say about that that in this field you do not have to shine very brightly to be a star. The world is more concerned with other things in general than with lifting the living standards of suffering humanity in South East Asia or anywhere else. I suppose that Australia on the whole has managed to create a very favourable impression around the world and particularly in our part of the world by its actions, but it is mostly the people in the field who manage to produce this result. 
My friend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  mentioned the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and its present activities. The Snowy Mountains people of course have established a pre-eminence in some of the engineering fields, particularly in such ventures as road making and so on. I remember that when we were in northwest Thailand a few years ago we saw the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation team working there on the Tak-Mae Sod road between Burma and Thailand. These people were the superprofessionals in the business. Not only did they bring a professional approach; they also brought a style of operation which was a lesson and an example to other people. One of the interesting things about our own professionals is that they do not seem to mind taking their coats off and getting underneath the bulldozer, getting their clothes and themselves dirty, if something goes wrong. By contrast many of the professional people who work with them in the field think it is against their highest professional ethics to get their hands dirty. Australians on the ground are people who get on with the job, who mix with the local citizenry and who are prepared to communicate about how you do the job. Australian people on the whole get a pretty good pay-off in the form of goodwill. I might say that this is pretty much the way with the people from New Zealand. I find that around the various parts of the world where they operate they are very good at actually getting on with the job and getting full value for their money. 
Taking the general principles upon which we are operating, I am not too sure that we have answered here this afternoon some of the questions which have been raised about all the operations of the Asian Development Bank. I was interested in the comments by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury),  who pointed out that although we had committed a fair amount of funds to the Asian Development Bank in the past some of it did not seem to have been taken up. Like me, he was a bit puzzled about the actual details of it all. Perhaps we do not get adequate information in this Parliament about the systems we are supporting in the rest of the world. Perhaps the Parliament itself, through its various committee systems, ought to take a more active interest in it and it ought to look at things more closely on the ground. We are sending groups of parliamentarians overseas continuously, but I do not know that we get the detailed analysis on the ground of Australian activities that we ought to get out of that. I would expect that part of that flows from the fact that the Parliament itself is often isolated from the activities of the institutions it creates, whether it is Asian Development Bank or the Department of Foreign Affairs. Not only are we isolated, but often times we are insulated from proper information. 
Let us look at the figures that are involved. Australia's contribution of $346m over the next 10 years- about $34m is to be paid out now and the rest is to be on call- while a substantial sum for most of the people of the world is not a substantial sum as far as Australia is concerned. It is a reasonable contribution but it makes a pretty small impact upon the great sea of trouble that we call South East Asia. I am not sure in my own heart that the banking system is the best way by which to contribute to the development of underdeveloped communities. It is true that we use in this case some techniques that we could well use at home; for example, special concessional interest rates. In this instance Australia, by giving its support to the Asian Development Bank, becomes a supporter of the guarantees of the Bank for its continued borrowing overseas. I think we should be trying to avoid putting the developing nations into the hands of the moneylenders of the world. No matter what kinds of institutions they are, the continuing demand of interest payments on development programs around the world is a millstone for the future. Australia has had enough of that itself. There must be other ways in which we can do it. 
One of the great difficulties with the banking system is that you are likely to deal more successfully with the people who have the least need of your services. You will forgive me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if I am pessimistic enough to think that no matter whether it is the Asian Development Bank, the Australian private banks or even in some areas our own publicly owned banks, banks are likely to be in the hands of people who are very conservative when they have to consider the factors that are involved in supporting the activities in the banking system. We have acquired some fairly progressive bankers in this institution on occasions. Perhaps they may not be here all that long, but they make a good contribution while they are here. Some of the ones I know quite well have done so. But it is more the pity if we have taken the progressive bankers out of the banking system. Therefore perhaps it is our public duty to return them to their active duties. 
The real problem we face in this part of the world is the tapping of unused resources. These resources are in the flow of finance and funds throughout the community but they are also in the development of community resources. I am not sure that the traditional banking system is the best way in which we can mobilise them, because we are dealing with a group of people who have enormous resources at their disposal. In 1969 or 1970 I visited Burma. One of the things that struck me about Burma was that it was a country with almost everything going for it except its 
Government. I suppose it is in the same position as Australia. It has a substantially solid community life going back for some 2000 years, with a cultivated society torn into political discord over the last few years and now ruled by military people. The earth in Burma is especially fertile. Its rivers are immense and it has oil, timber and other resources. Its principal deficiency is good administration. Like many other countries it suffers from poor government and totally inadequate administrative systems. No matter what we do and no matter how often this Parliament debates questions of overseas aid, somehow we have to start to create systems of support for administration throughout the world. 
Without access at the moment to any of the detailed reports on the work of the Bank, but noting some of the things that have been said here, one has to remark that most of the support seems to go to very large development programs of one sort or another throughout this part of the world. I hope that we will be able to find some way by which the great skills of administration which are some of the by-products of Western society- those skills are pretty meagre in the rest of the world- can be transferred to the communities to our north and north-west. I do not know how this can be tackled. I suppose that it could be done by support for local government. If we can give local governments in that part of the world funds at concessional rates and if we can supply then with technical training systems and so on we will probably be doing more for them than by bolstering up many of their central governments. As I see it, it will be a long while before most of those central governments are able to administer their countries in a way in which we expect this country to be administered. 
I suppose that during the 3 years when Labor was in government we were not able to do as much as we wished to do in these matters, but I wish that this Government would apply itself more directly to the problem of supporting such projects in that part of the world. One of the questions that has been asked is: What do the Australian people feel? My observation, which is supported by pretty solid public response on occasions, is that Australians are very prone to supporting the needs of people outside this country. I have been a member of this place for a fairly lengthy and, I hope, very constructive period. One of the things that has depressed me is that members of the citizenry on the whole, in their relationships with their Federal members of Parliament, want to know what their Federal members of Parliament can do for them. People trudge up the stairs to our offices to tell us that their telephone has been cut off. One cannot blame the Telecom people because they want their bills to be paid. Other people may be in trouble with social security or repatriation matters. I do not think that it was until the Bangladesh crisis some 4 or S years ago that I received any real public response in the street. People would come into my office and ask what we were going to do about that problem. Honourable members who were here at that time would remember the tremendous pressure put upon the Government to provide some substantial support for the people of Bangladesh. 
I can recall in my very early life, in 1923 when I was quite young, collections being taken up in Australia for the victims of the Tokyo earthquake and my own one or two pence going in to support the Japanese in that unhappy event. It was one of the ironies of international affairs that by the time I reached manhood we were spending our taxes and energy trying to knock the place down again. As I see it, in this country there is an enormous reservoir of goodwill towards people who are less well off than we are. It is our job to find some way of mobilising that goodwill. I am not too sure that a lot of the funds around this country could not be ploughed into something similar to the Asian Development Bank. In a country with a population of 13 million, 6 million or 7 million people with bank accounts might be prepared to invest $1,500 or $2,000 over a period, which investment would be guaranteed by the Australian Government. I would not be surprised if the Government could raise very large sums continuously in this way, just as I presume many of the needs of the Australian Government could be supported in this way, but I think that we ought to be able to resolve that question by greater intellectual effort. 
In dealing with institutions as substantial as the Asian Development Bank we should not concentrate on the large things to the exclusion of the small things which would change the quality of life of communities in South East Asia. I remember on one occasion visiting villages in India. Those people do not need a mammoth dam on the river. They do not need a power house. I recall one case where the power line went past the village only a mile or two away and some power was being connected. But the people had no water supply. There were some wells on the edge of the village. The women went to the wells and carried the water back in the traditional Indian manner, in water pitchers on their heads. That is very picturesque and I understand that it is good for the human form and carriage, but it is an extremely wasteful way of doing it. Those villagers would have had their life transformed by 400 or SOO yards of one inch water pipe, one electric pump and 6 or 7 tapsthe sort of things that one finds lying around in their thousands in Australia. 
When I think of the many things that we discard I become disheartened. I have seen very good equipment which is obsolete being sent off to the breakers and to tips in Australia. I recall seeing a printing press being taken off and sent to be broken up with a hammer. The ordinary people in India would be very grateful to get their hands on such things. I realise the great difficulties in creating a financial situation at the other end and an administrative system at this end. I hope that with institutions such as the Asian Development Bank we will be able to start to do something about overcoming the immense problems of transferring the surplus resources for food in this country, for instance, to the hungry mouths and waiting stomachs of the people of South East Asia. 
It is a serious reflection on humanity that one of the biggest areas of trade between the wealthy countries and the non-wealthy countries is in arms. I forget what the figures are, but about three-quarters of the arms sold to the underdeveloped countries come from the three or four richest and biggest countries such as Britain, America, France and Russia and the other countries in their bloc. I do not want us to compete in that field. If I had my way I would neither sell arms to nor purchase arms from other people. If we could stop that trade we would make the world a better place in which to live. One of our greatest problems at the moment with surplus meat is in processing it. I recall being told that it cost something like $700 a tonne just to process it. That was the figure a couple of years ago. I am sure that if we applied all our skill, wisdom and wit to the problem we could do better than that. Having done that, we have to transport the product and then find a way of marketing it in a part of the world where the markets are in the hands of people who would prefer to transfer the funds available to the acquisition of Mercedes cars or something like that for themselves. Perhaps in this area we could follow the example of the Australian Dairy Produce Board which has established its own marketing arrangements in various parts of the world. In these areas I think that we can learn something from capitalist enterprises which have their own agencies and their own subsidiaries scattered throughout the world wherever they want to market their goods. 
This is one of the areas of debate in this Parliament on which we all are basically in agreement. I think it is good if in debates such as this we do not fracture our shoulders by patting ourselves on the back and saying how good we are. We have a long way to go. We have a great opportunity to start to throw our weight around in the rest of the world and demand more action. The real difference between a good quality of life and a poor quality of life for people in a community stems basically from the kind of government and the kind of stability that they are able to develop in their own society. Let us consider the difference between, say, the Khmer Republic and Switzerland. Probably the Khmer Republic has more going for it than Switzerland in the way of climate and other things but the difference basically lies in the form of government. The same applies to Australia and many other countries. Any encouragement that we can give to the Government to proceed along the path which it has followed in this regard- that is, no undue reduction in our effort- will be encouraged by this side of the House. 
I address a question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Is it a fact that his intervention in the subject of the supply of milk to Canberra produced the tendering system the results of which have just been announced? Did he intervene in this way on his private enterprise and market place philosophy on the grounds that it would produce a better milk supply and cheaper milk? Has it in fact produced dearer milk? Does it not show that the economic philosophies on which he and his colleagues operate are totally erroneous? Would it also be true that his intervention - 
-I agree with the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  in his general view of the provisions of the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill and the rather suspicious look he has taken at them. I do not agree that I see all that much good about the legislation. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  and his colleagues will forgive me if I view the motives of this Government with some suspicion when I come to consider legislation of this sort. I am reminded of the Crimes Act of some twelve or thirteen years ago and some of the dragnet provisions in that. I am reminded of the National Service Act which perpetrated great injustices in this country. I am reminded of the Communist Party Dissolution Bill of a quarter of a century ago which, happily, the people of Australia were able to reject. 
This Government has an unhappy record in regard to civil rights and such matters when it comes to the areas which it chooses to call 'public interest' or 'national security'. So, I start with the assumption that this legislation has probably been brought down more rapidly than it ought to have been; that it has not been deeply considered in the light of the comments that have been made here and which ought to have been made before it reached this House. This is a question that we ought to re-examine. The Bill ought to be withdrawn and reconsidered. I am not optimistic enough to think that in the Committee stage in this chamber we will be able to make the necessary amendments to cover some of the points that have been made from both sides of the House. To me, this legislation has the dragnet look. I think that in this legislation we are attempting to define the indefinable. There are some aspects of the legislation which I find very difficult to define. I might be in agreement -as indeed I am- with the general principles or the concepts of the legislation, but unhappily I think that often concepts are impossible to define. In the pursuit of definitions, we are likely to inflict upon people prejudices or injustices which they ought not have to suffer. My own attitude is that, where this legislation applies to actions inside Australia, it is highly improbable that there is not already some existing Australian law that deals with such actions. 
One of the great inflictions of the present is the legal views of the past. They flow on through legislation which is available to people who wish to get at a person no matter what that person has done. I remember a lecture I heard once in the Army about the use of a particular section of the Army Act relating to conduct to the prejudice of good order and military discipline. That section meant that the Army could get a person for anything. I remember the lecturer on that occasion saying: 'I do not think that anybody should ever use that provision. If any soldier can think of any sin, or crime, or action that is not covered in a specific case in the legislation in the Army Orders, he deserves to get away with it'. I have an idea that sometimes we become too 'dragnetish' to coin a phrase- in our approach to these matters. 
The other question that arises is: What powers have we over an Australian citizen once he leaves this country? Whilst I am unhappy about some of the activities that Australians get up to overseas, again, I am not sure that we would not be trespassing upon the general feeling of what civil law ought to be, what public and criminal law ought to be and what national security really requires, if we assumed that the punishment that an Australian received somewhere else in the world for an action which probably would be offensive to the law in the country in which he was operating, was not enough. If the laws of the country to which such a person goes do not provide sufficient punishment, there is something wrong. So, I agree with the honourable member for St George about the question of the double penalty. 
As soon as I saw this piece of legislation, I started to think of the current situation in relation to Timor, Indonesia's claims to it, the rather ambivalent attitude that the Australian Government has to those Indonesian claims and the response that one could expect from this Government at any moment as a result of the activities of people in this country such as myself in encouraging and supporting the people of East Timor in their attempt to fight for their own rights. That is what bothers me about the legislation. I know that the present Attorney-General has an unfortunate habit of assisting and advising in the signing into law legislation that ought not to be made law because it has not been passed by both houses of Parliament. I will forgive him in this instance because I do not think that he did it on purpose. But the sorts of attitudes that we in this House today bring to matters are not necessarily the kinds of attitudes that might well prevail when we start to look up this legislation to see how it can be used against somebody in 2 years' time, 20 years' time or perhaps even in 3 months' time. 
I remind the House of some of the things that have gone on in relation to the situation in Timor. I would have thought that listening to radio broadcasts from overseas was a pretty innocent matter. However there have been indications from high places in this Government that people who listen to messages from Timor and who receive them and pass them on to other people may well be trespassing on legislation relating to posts and telegraphs. So we try to prejudice that ordinarily free activity of people. I think that this is a serious matter to which this Parliament should attend at this moment. Are we to pass into the hands of anybody the kind of authority that resides in this Bill including the interpretation of the provisions of the Bill? 
I refer to clause 6 (d) which relates to the unlawful destroying or damaging of any real or personal property belonging to the Government of the foreign country. It has been pointed out that that is a simple enough proposition. A person may run into a government car somewhere or he may run over a government official somewhere or perhaps he may do something inside an airport which causes damage and then he is caught. I think that this is a totally unnecessary piece of legislation. The legislation in the country concerned will certainly cover that. While I express what one might call dim views of this Government, its behaviour and some of the legislation that applies to citizens of this country, I must admit that most of the rest of the world is worse and that people are likely to be more seriously disadvantaged under the criminal law in the rest of the world than they are here. 
What about clause 7, sub-clause (1), paragraph  (0,  which states:  receive or solicit money or goods, or the performances of services, for the purpose of supporting or promoting the commission of an offence against section 6 . . . 
Proposed section 6 covers things such as being in association with or assisting people who are perhaps at odds with a government of another country. Last night I heard reference to situations throughout the world, some of which are still present, in which there is even a contest as to who is the government of the country. Last night I heard my colleagues refer to the International Brigade. I know some people who served in the International Brigade in Spain in the 1 930s. I am proud to know them. I am glad to know that people went off to take part in that kind of contest. Most of the contests in the world at the moment I regard as not of that order. That is perhaps a subjective view. History gives one a chance to be a bit more objective. We may live in a world that needs the sort of people that those men were- preventing or unnecessarily inhibiting that kind of action. 
I am talking about what I think are the dragnet provisions of clause 7. Take the provisions of clause 7, sub-clause (1), paragraph (d), which states:  allow himself to be trained or drilled, or be present at a meeting or assembly of persons with intent to allow himself to be trained or drilled . . . 
I regard 'with intent' as a very dangerous term indeed. Quite often the courts are unduly protective of the wrongdoer. Quite often people get tangled up in the emotional content of contests. The courts are not all that objective. Neither are the juries which are empanelled nor the judges who sit upon the cases. Often the people involved will be most defenceless. They may not have been born in this country. Their actions are likely to be prone to or motivated by some latent patriotism or something else. Freedom of association, which is prejudiced by that paragraph, ought to be protected rather than prejudiced by legislation before this House. I speak as one who nas had a fairly long association with what one might call the dissident movements in this country. I have never encouraged anybody to act violently here or elsewhere in these matters. I would think that if this legislation had been current during the Vietnam war it would have caused a great deal of trouble to a lot of us, even those who gave money to the Red Cross for North Vietnam or something of that nature. I am quite confident that we could have been caught up in all sorts of trials and tribulations. As my colleagues pointed out, the provision which allows a person to be arrested, detained and perhaps not charged for a reasonable period can put one under grave threat indeed. We do not need to have this provision. I suppose that what I am saying to the Attorney at this stage is that I do not think the legislation is necessary in this form. 
I come to a rather alarming provision. It would be charming if it were not for the serious nature of it. I refer to sub-clause (2) of clause 9. A person does not commit a crime if the Minister has, by instrument signed by him and published in the  Gazette,  declared that it is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia, to permit the recruitment in Australia, etc. It seems a rather novel provision in Australian legislation that the Minister is able to declare war unilaterally. He may let the people of whom he approves take part in events on either side of the fence in Northern Ireland, the Middle East or perhaps Timor. He may have anybody who does the opposite or who holds the opposite view to the Government or himself severely punished. I do not believe that is the kind of provision which we ought to have in this legislation. Why the Minister? If a person who takes part in a military operation is given the Government's fiat, if that is the correct term, or approval, that is a very serious matter. It should not be done by administrative decree. We should not allow the Minister to do it. It is not a question of this Minister or of any other Minister. It is most unusual legislation. I have no doubt that the Attorney-General is a man skilled in law. After all, he helped write a lot of bad law introduced by previous Liberal-National Country Party governments. He might be able to find plenty of quotes from other legislation. If he does, I suggest we start by trying to remove them from this legislation. I hold a very strong view against that paragraph. 
I hold an equally strong view against the power of delegation. I am not so sure that I am as strongly critical of the provision which allows the Attorney to decide whether a prosecution will proceed. It is possible to have a lot of vexatious litigation in these matters or prejudicial prosecutions simply in the pursuit of individuals. I think we are talking about areas of great emotion. In this country we are at the moment removed geographically and in lots of other ways from the great tumult in Northern Ireland. It is not so long ago that the feelings in this community about the Irish question ran as hotly as they did in Ireland and Britain. It would be very difficult to get objective judgments by police forces, Attorneys, even juries, in these matters if they were brought to court. I would think that probably the same feeling still prevails with regard to many of the areas of conflict in the Middle East. I represent an electorate in which there are very large numbers of people from the Middle East. It is quite possible that those people would be empanelled on juries in these matters. We all know how difficult the internal situation has become in Yugoslavia. We know from the differences of people who were born there and who have brought their differences here. So I am strongly supporting the amendment on this side of the House that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted. 
I do not think the Bill approaches the real problem of international terrorism. I am motivated by the same views as the Attorney has. Anyone who travels a lot or anyone who has any sense of humanity must be horrified at the things that are done in the name of patriotism by some people. Those things are called terrorism by people like me who regard them as wrong, no matter what the cause. I do not think this Bill will solve the problem. That will be solved by international negotiation and by close relations between the defendant countries, if one might call them that. I do not know what we have done internationally to try to bring to their senses the nations which harbour terrorists. They ought to have been isolated from the world community a long time ago. There are quite a lot of them. Some of them have become victims of these acts by now. They are starting to show greater sensitivity. 
I suggest to the Attorney-General that we on this side of the House are more often associated with what one might call the dissident movements than the people on his side are. We are more often associated with people who are likely to get entangled in this legislation. We may not agree directly with the connections that they have. However, we feel that the Bill ought to be redrafted. In general, Australia's criminal law in the State and Federal jurisdictions will cover everything that is done here. I think it is a dangerous step to follow an Australian wherever he goes on this planet, and when he comes home to pin him down. I am not confident that we have given sufficient thought to the Bill. It is relatively new legislation. It is relatively new thinking. Perhaps it is the processes of this Parliament which are in error rather than the AttorneyGeneral. It may be one of those things that should have been put into the system and given greater consideration by the system. I find one of the more 'distressing' areas of parliamentary thought the fact that when the Bill goes from here it is likely to get rougher treatment in the Senate in respect of trespassing on human rights and things like that, so bless me. I think it is a serious matter when the House of Representatives has to say to itself: 'No matter what we do here we will be saved by the Senate'. This sort of thing has happened on occasions, particularly in respect of regulations and ordinances that we have brought down. Therefore I appeal to the Attorney-General and to the House to withdraw this piece of legislation, to give it a thorough going over and to see whether in fact the broad sweep of it is really necessary or whether we need some different set of international relationships to prevent the kind of action that has been taken. 
I hope the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  did not think that my intervention meant that I have no sympathy with what he was saying. I had  not  got the message quite clear that he was not getting much response out of the people in the Ministry here. Perhaps that was the case with most of the other people listening in to this grievance day debate. I point up the remarks he made. I do not know why the Ministers here are not intervening correctly or adequately but I know through my experience in this Parliament, particularly during the period in which we were in government- I attended many ministerial council meetings- that it took some time before one got round to establishing an appropriate  rapport  between the Ministers representing Australia as such and the States as such. It is one of the great difficulties to which we are all heir. I only hope that honourable members in the National Country Party corner will recognise that it is one of the great difficulties in Australian administration and will apply themselves more effectively to the question of national government rather than the consortium of State autonomies that they are always supporting. 
I rise this morning to speak basically about the attack upon the living standards of the Australian people that flows from some of this Government's operations- the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission this morning and so on. But before I commence on that I want to support as eloquently and as strongly as I can the words of my honourable friend from Fraser  (Mr Fry)  about the situation in Timor and to make sure that this House continues its demand that the Australian Government stand up against the Indonesian Government, that we do not go in for the continuous sycophancy that goes on here towards the Indonesians. I can think of no reason why we should heap praise in this House upon the  President  of Indonesia. He is a militarist governor. He is in control of a government that has carried out an acute case of aggression in Timor. At question time this morning the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  mentioned my own intervention on behalf of the people of Cambodia, now the Khmer Republic, some 7 or 8 years ago. I did that. When I came home I continued doing that. I was as right then in my attitude to aggression against neighbouring countries, in that case by the forces of North Vietnam, as I believe I am correct now in my belief that the Indonesians are carrying out an act of great aggression in Timor. 
I want to speak about the attack on living standards that is implicit in this Government's policy. It falls into 3 major parts. First there is the denigration of the unemployed; secondly, the administration of the benefit; and thirdly, the attack upon real wages. First I shall say a few words on behalf of those people who are out of work. I think the word 'dole 'is most ungracious. 
I do not use the word. When I was quite young, immediately after leaving school in the 1930s, I was out of work for 3 years. I know what it is like. I know how disheartening it can be. Of course at that time one lived in a world in which unemployment was much more a fact of life, one of the parts of life. So many hundreds of thousands of people were out of work in deep misery. One of the great contributions of the last 30 years has been the taking of misery out of unemployment by making the unemployment benefit substantive enough for people to live on it, and making it readily enough available so that it is not an act of charity. One of the great disadvantages this Government is heaping upon the unemployed people is to make it instead of an act of right or a payment of right, an act of grace. We must oppose it. That brings me to the question of the administration of the unemployment benefit. I have here a letter from one of my constituents. I shall read parts of it. It states: 
I enclose 2 letters from the Department of Social Security placed in my letter box on 9th and 10th March. 
I think they speak for themselves. It is only of ironic interest that I had phoned the Department two weeks earlier to tell them that as my wife had found work we no longer wanted unemployment benefits, and that on the second day the officer called I was actually in the Professional Employment Office confirming the cancellation of the benefit. The more substantial implication of the letters is the contempt in which the unemployed are held by the Fraser government and the department and the overbearing attitudes they are expected to suffer. The unemployed, quite obviously, are expected to be home at all times- not out looking for jobs?and are to keep appointments which have not been made. They are to put up with harassment by anonymous officers, and if they are not too inarticulate or intimidated or both, their only recourse is to a poor bloke who answers the phone and says 'Sorry mate. It 's not my fault '. 
That arises from 2 letters I have here which were delivered to this gentleman 's home. One states: 
With reference to Unemployment Benefits in your name, an Officer of this Department called at your home address - 
It gives the date-  but as you were not at home he was unable to interview you. 
The Officer will call again on Thursday - 
The officer called again on Thursday and the gentleman was not home because, as he said, he had an appointment at the employment office as it was. The second letter states: 
An officer of this Department called on you ... in connection with your unemployment benefit. 
You were not in attendance so a request was made that you remain at home . . . to be interviewed. 
As you Tailed to keep this appointment it will be taken to indicate that you are no longer interested in receiving unemployment benefits and it will be terminated accordingly unless you contact . . . 
And so on. It happens that that person is articulate enough to know how to handle the situation. But I represent countless thousands of people who read no English, who do not understand these things. I do not think that is the way we should handle the situation. I recognise the difficulties of it. I know that in my electorate people have been found to be drawing 2 unemployment benefits and working as well and so on. But we must not make the individual the victim of administrative convenience. We have to solve that problem and we cannot solve it if we continue to reduce employment services and resources and the public servant numbers to man them. 
I have dealt with the administration of the system; now I come to the question of the actual wage itself. One of the most depressing features of the last 15 months has been the consistent attacks upon real wages of the people of Australia on the part of this Government, using every force at its disposal. The judgment of the Commission this morning that wages were to be increased by, I think, $5.70 is another example of that. I do not think that meets the full indexation that is required to keep up the real standards of living. The trade union movement of Australia will not take that. I suppose, to use the vernacular, they are not going to cop it. Why should they? If profits are going up why should they stand by while real wages come down? So much nonsense is talked in this arena. 
I do not think that there is any possibility of the private sector taking up all the unemployment. I think that productivity is rising through technical and technological changes in industry to such an extent that there is no possibility of achieving full employment through the private sector. That is where government comes in. I think that there is a misunderstading both about the productivity behind each worker and the wage factor in the cost of living. I cite 3 examples. The first refers to bricks. I know of a brickworks where 12 to 15 months ago 100 employees were producing 500 000 bricks a week. Now 35 employees are producing 700 000 bricks a week. At more than $100 a thousand bricks that is over $2,000 a week each of production capacity on the part of the workers- typists, managers and the lot. For that work they get perhaps $ 1 50 a week. If their wages were to go up by 100 per cent it still would not affect the cost of production very much. 
I am not suggesting that their wages should be increased, I am just putting the case to honourable members. I ask them to do the arithmetic. Those people are each producing $2,000 worth of goods a week. If they were paid $300 a week each it would still add only some small percentage to the cost of the bricks. In fact the cost of those bricks is basically made up of interest and other matters. 
Then there is coal. I am informed that every person working in the coal industry produces between $300 and $400 worth of coal a day and gets paid about $30 a day for doing so. I have been in factories in my electorate where there has been an enormous increase in productivity. I went to one factory that makes cans. It cans that stuff that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  was attacking with my support- beer. They now have 2 people producing material which it took 10 people to produce 5 years ago. The wage factor has fallen from $100 and hour to $20 an hour in that instance. The Government complains bitterly about the wage factor in the cost of production. I think it is time that the people of Australia woke up to the facts of life. They are being taken on. Profits are rising while real wages are falling. While the people of Australia are slow on these matters, the facts are that they will not take it much longer. The Government is heading for a very solid confrontation with the people at the work base. 
I think that the third reading of this Bill should be opposed. The Bill is just a part of the pattern of destruction being wrought by this Government on the policies and programs of the previous Government. It will have a very serious and prejudicial effect upon the development of the programs for overseas aid developed over the 3 years of Labor Government. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, if I could just say- 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I take the strongest possible exception to the behaviour of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  in this matter. We now have before the House a motion to change the order of business - 
-We on this side of the House do not like the behaviour of the Soviet Government any more than does the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  but I remind the honourable member that when it comes to belligerence, in the two great World Wars of my life the Russians have been on our side. I rise tonight to refer to something I have just discovered and what I consider to be an error of fact in a report which was tabled by the Public Accounts Committee last week. I did not have much time to consider it then because it is a lengthy report and I have just discovered the error. It was quoted by my colleague, the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  in the debate. It refers to criticisms I had offered of the Auditor-General's original report. The Public Accounts Committee report stated: 
As the statements made by the former Minister raised some very important matters of principle relating to the autonomy of the Auditor-General, his method of reporting . . . 
As a result, the Committee called the AuditorGeneral before it. I want to make it quite clear that I make no assertions whatsoever about the autonomy of the Auditor-General but I offered some very severe criticisms of his accuracy. That is what I ask of people like Auditors-General. In the Auditor-General's report in June 1974, he stated on page 3: 
In correspondence, the Secretary to the Depanment has agreed generally with the Audit findings. In certain cases the Depanment has sought to excuse its non-compliance with established procedures on the grounds that it became aware of Ministerial decisions involving expenditures only when the accounts for the expenditures concerned were received within the Depanment . . . 
That was refuted emphatically in documents which I gave to the Committee and tabled in this Parliament. On page 18, the Auditor-General states, when referring to, I think, elections to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee: 
The main reasons for such shortcomings . . . and the deadline for the actual enrolment, set by the then Minister . . . 
I showed that that was a completely erroneous statement based upon no facts whatsoever. On page 23 the Auditor-General said, concerning a trawler: 
When confronted with the situation of making the trawler ready for sea in time to meet the then Minister's deadline . . . 
I did not set the deadline. Captain Benson, a former member of this House, showed emphatically to the Committee that I did not do so. It was a totally inaccurate assertion by the AuditorGeneral. On the same page, the Auditor-General stated: 
In relation to the accounts paid from Canberra, the commitments were entered into by a consultant to the then Minister and the Depanment had no knowledge of the commitment until receipt of the accounts . . . 
The evidence presented to the Committee clearly showed that was not the case. A very senior officer of the Department admitted, in fact, that the Department did know. I have nothing to say about the methods of the Auditor-General in carrying out his research. I have nothing to say and no complaint to offer about his autonomy, but I do have very serious criticisms to offer of a person who is carrying out a statutory obligation to this Parliament of this nation reprinting inaccuracies and assertions against people in his reports to this Parliament without checking their accuracy. What I am complaining about is that no steps were taken to see whether these assertions were accurate before they were reported to the Parliament. 
I suggest that honourable members read what the Public Accounts Committee had to say on page 1 3 of its report to see just how we are in the grip of a totally official system in which the Auditor-General thinks it is adequate if he talks to the Department and if the Department talks to him, and for what is actually hearsay to be repeated as hard evidence. That is a serious criticism to offer. I am not greatly concerned about what people say about me. If they do it in public and if it is defamatory, I will take action. If it is done in this Parliament, I will reply. But if it is done by people who are, as I said last week, supposed to be paragons of probity, then I expect from them the same accuracy that I hope I always bring to debate in this place. 
-The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  was peculiarly lucid for a member of the Liberal Party, I thought, in some of the things he had to say tonight. I am one who does not know for sure whether sheer numbers are important. I do not think we can show that a very big population produces a more desirable society than does a smaller one. We cannot show the reverse, either. Around the world there are very complex and numerous societies in which people live the good life, but there are very numerous and complex societies in which they do not. I do not think we can show that an increasing area of immigration will create more unemployment. I do not know that we can show that it will not either. But at the moment I am not inclined to come down on the side of those people who say that we ought to reduce immigration simply on the grounds that it increases competition for jobs, though probably not on very good logical grounds. I think that in a contracting society we will find much greater economic difficulties than in an expanding society. I do not know that we have done enough scientific work on this matter. 
I belong to an area in which there is a very large migrant population. It has a very large working class population and is a large industrial area. I sympathise with those who are out of work and who see another couple of aeroplanes arriving with more people who will apparently compete for jobs. I think that is a reasonable assumption on their part in the short term. I do not think we can say that in the long term we will continue to absorb all the employable people in Australia simply by fulfilling the needs of the expanding population. But I think in the short term we can make out a strong case for that. I hope that we will get around to a more rational approach to the subject. I have lived through a number of economic recessions. There was a very serious one in the 1930s. I think that in some ways a more psychologically damaging recession is occurring at this moment, not because it is more serious than the recession in the 1930s in its effect upon people but because it has arrived after a long period during which people have become accustomed to security, full employment and all the rest of it. 
I welcome this debate tonight in the hope that people will continue to look at the subject of migration in its constructive aspects and learn from the last 30 years the lessons we should apply to a continuing flow of immigration. I think the migration program of the last 30 years has made an immense contribution to Australia. We are all migrants. Only a handful of people have had generations in this country stretching back over a century. In effect, we are all the direct descendants of migrant stock. Of course, some of the results of the migration program have had a enormous impact upon Australia. The program has increased our numbers. Perhaps Australia is a more significant country with 14 million people than it was with 7 million people. I think it is. In a way immigration produces a different kind of Australia for us all to live in. So numbers have added to the capacity of people to enjoy this continent by being able to meet the overheads and share the overheads with more people. The greatest thing that the migration program has brought to this country is a diversity of its society. I recommend to honourable members who want to improve their education that next time they are passing through Melbourne they drive down Sydney Road. 
-Yes. Sydney Road is the business end of the Hume Highway. It runs for three or four miles through my electorate. The diversity there is something to which Australians in that area have become accustomed, but it is still fairly strange to most people outside the inner suburbs of Melbourne and to people in Sydney in particular. There one sees shops with signs in Arabic, Turkish, Yugoslav, Greek and Italian. In some areas there may be more signs in Greek and Italian than in English. Out of all that has grown a diverse society which has strengthened the society in which we live, and for all of us it has widened Australia's horizons. It has made Australia a different country in which to live. It has changed the basis upon which our families have been built. My family came originally from the British Isles, mostly from Scotland. One little 25 per cent came from England, but we have been able to absorb that fairly satisfactorily. My son is married to a girl whose parents are Greek and who was born in Egypt. We are pleased, happy and proud to have that girl as a member of our family. I look at her family as a fair example of the battle of people such as they in this country. They have taken great steps towards trying to be part of the Australian scene, difficult as it is for middle aged people who have to learn a new language and face many other problems. 
So to that extent Australia can be grateful for the creators and sponsors of the migration scheme. We can be even more grateful to those people who had the courage to pick themselves up and to be transported 10 000 or 12 000 miles across the world to a totally strange environment. Our parents and grandparents who came from the British Isles in the last century must have undertaken a pretty rigorous exercise, but at least they were coming to a country in which the society was basically the same as the one they had left, where the language was the same, where the social mores were the same, where the general nuances of society, political, economical, social were the same. However, for people from Yugoslavia, Turkey, Greece and even Italy it was a very strange society into which they were emptied when they arrived. On the whole, Australians accommodated themselves pretty well to the very large number of people who came into their midst. The suburbs of Brunswick and Coburg, for which I became the representative in 1955, had a small proportion of migrants. Schools had a handful of migrants. When I say a handful I mean that in a class of forty there might have been 10 migrant children. Gradually, particularly in the first eight or ten years, the whole social environment changed. Schools with 300 or 400 children saw their populations grow to 500 or 600, with 400 of the pupils perhaps coming from anywhere but the British Isles or from Anglo-Saxon stock. Therefore, their English was meagre to almost nil. 
Despite all the things that are said about Australian society, the way in which the community accepted that absorption pleases me. I have been pretty close to the community in all the years in which I have represented it. The people whom I represent are a most uninhibited group when it comes to telling you their opinions of yourself, your policies and the government, particularly this Government. Yet in that time I do not think anybody has come to my office or approached me personally and said: 'When are you going to stop these migrants coming here?' I think that is a fair reflection of an open and fairly accommodating society. Schools that were peaceful, well organised community groups 20 years ago suddenly became crowded with the people of diverse languages. The school committees tried to accommodate themselves to it. I know that there are tensions everywhere. That people call one another undesirable names, that children perhaps have scraps in the schoolyard. These things used to happen among ordinary Australian children in my young days and I doubt that it has changed all that much. However, compared with the tensions in the rest of the world there are very few real tensions of this sort in Australia. I sense though that with rising unemployment and increasing economic troubles these tensions are likely to grow. That is one of our achievements. Another is that we have managed to maintain full employment over most of this period. 
Another achievement of the Australian society is that we now offer a certain equality to the migrant. In my notes I have put the word 'certain' in inverted commas because while this achievement seems real to us it does not seem real to the customer. We did not give him the feeling that in the queue at the employment office the Italian got as fair a call up to the counter as did the Australian. When one stood there and looked one could see that that is what happened and that when it did not it was partly the result of the diffidence of the person concerned. It has been very difficult for Australians to accommodate these strange languages. We have done pretty well in giving migrants access to social security benefits, to some kinds of work and to schools. I think that some of the professions have performed miserably in attempting to crowd out people whose professional qualifications did not come from inside the English speaking network. I find myself totally unconvinced that most of the doctors from Europe are incapable of being doctors in Australia and I think it is most unseemly of the professional people in Australia that they have made it so difficult for these people. 
There are some things that we did badly. We did not prepare schools for the arrival of these children. We did not prepare a proper housing program for them. We did not prepare community services such as translation services to accommodate them, nor did we take any steps to accommodate them by changing our social climate. So those are the lessons of the last 30 years. We are learning them slowly. If somebody calls at my office and speaks a language such as Yugoslav which we cannot handle there, it is now possible to pick up the telephone, ring the translator service and find somebody at the other end who speaks that language. That is the sort of thing that should have been readily available 25 years ago. It was available then but only if one knew where to look for it. So some of these ideas are starting to gel now. 
What are some of the things we ought to do now? I think that it is time we made naturalisation easier. I understand that there is an enormous hold-up on naturalisation applications simply because people have to be investigated. For heaven's sake, why do they need investigation if they have lived here for 3 years and have worked satisfactorily? We probably would get the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to look at them for some mysterious reason. I would not let ASIO tell me the time and from what I have seen of its behaviour I would not believe it even if it did. So I think this requirement for investigation is nonsense. In Victoria, which is not a notably liberal State, using that word in the English sense and not giving it the prostituted definition that it is given in politics on the other side of the House- using the word 'liberal ' in the sense of treating people as equals- it is now possible for anybody to vote in municipal elections whether they are naturalised or not as long as they are occupiers of property. I suppose it is symbolic of Victorian Liberal or conservative politics that this qualification has to do with property and not people but still it is an effective step towards equality. I think the time has come when we should consider this matter of equality more carefully. 
Once a person has lived here in such a way that it can be determined that he intends to stay, that he is part of the scene and is working and paying taxes, naturalisation ought to be a right, and ought to be easy to get. Some might say that the waiting period should be 12 months or something of that nature. The application for naturalisation ought to be lodged at the local town hall and processed almost immediately. I am inclined towards a ceremonial admission to the Australian community but I would make naturalisation easier with a shorter qualifying period. I can think of no reason for an investigation to be carried out. It is wrong to allow people to live for years in our midst and deny them the rights of naturalisation and all the things that flow from it. We should not let them come here in the first place if we are not prepared to put up with what they are, warts and all. 
There are another couple of eccentricities in the migration scheme. A person might arrive in Australia, find that he likes it- there are people like that- and decide that he would like to stay. He is the son of person I would allow to stay. I believe that the idea of the visitor's visa and the right to stay after you have been tasted and tried is much more sensible than bringing out here people who find when they get here that they do not like it. I suspect that there will not be millions of people rushing out here. The sort of person we should allow to stay is the person who can pay his own fare, who is prepared to come under his own steam and when he gets here to find a job and friends. We should reduce all the difficulties and start to apply a more humane view to the question of refugees. We ought to keep a sharp eye on whether or not we can take more people. There is not much to be said one way or the other on whether we would be better off with 30 million people than with 14 million people, but there is tons of room in this country and it might well be that at this stage an expanded migration program would increase employment opportunities. But the Government would have to change a whole host of its neuroses about public expenditure and so on. One of the advantages of the Green Paper and the debate on it is that at last an opportunity has been provided for full debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The April issue of the  Survey of Manufacturing Activity,  when referring to the previous quarter, states: 
A further fall in employment and continuing rises in productivity were reported. 
Would this not mean that there has been a fall in the wage factor in costs during that period and a potential increase in profits, which is continuing now? Therefore, in the face of those developments, would not any suggestion that wages should be frozen mean that the wage earners of Australia are to carry the burden of readjustments in the economy and that their standard of living will be decreasing? How on earth can the Government expect rational, commonsense people to fall for that proposition? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
Will he provide the number, names and addresses of medical practitioners in the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick who bulk-bill to Medibank. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, on notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
Have there been any Government inquiries or interdepartmental committees that have investigated the northwest region of Melbourne, or any of the problems that pertain to a pan of the north-west region of Melbourne. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) Did the United Nations designate 1977 as the Year of the Child. 
If so, what action is proposed within Australia, and who will be responsible for this. 
3 ) What action has been taken on it to date. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
Has the United Nations proclaimed 1978 as any special year. 
If so, what action has the Australian Government undertaken. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) How many approved nursing homes are located in the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick, and where is the location in each case. 
What are the names and addresses of (a) the registered owner of each home and (b) the medical practitioners who regularly attend each home. 
What is the number of approved beds in each home. 
What are the weekly charges for patients at each home. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
1 ) What is the total value of Commonwealth contracts in the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick for which construction is expected in 1 976-77. 
What is the value of the individual projects mentioned in part (1 ). 
3 ) What is the total value of contracts in these municipalities presently being constructed but not expected to be completed in 1976-77. 
What are the projects involved. 
Are any contracts estimated to be commenced for these municipalities in 1977-78. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) How many persons are enrolled in each subdivision in the Victorian Municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick. 
What were the corresponding figures at the end of 1976, 1975, 1974, 1973, 1972, 1971 and 1970. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs on notice on 27 April, 1977: 
1 ) Why was the Malaysian student  Mr Hishamuddin  Rais refused political asylum and permanent residence in Australia. 
Will he undertake to review his decision in view of the potential threat to life and liberty faced by  Mr Rais  if he has to return to Malaysia in the event of his failure to obtain another adequate destination. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) How many mothers in the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick with children aged (a) 1 to 5 years, (b) 6 to 10 years, (c) 1 1 to 15 years and (d) 1 6 years and over are in receipt of family allowances. 
) How many children are there in each of the age groups referred to in part ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) How many citizens in the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick are esimated or known to be receiving (a) pensions and (b) other forms of social security benefits. 
How many (a) females and (b) males referred to in part ( 1 ) are receiving benefits, and will the Minister provide a break-up of each of the various categories of benefits received. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
How many persons of each of the 10 largest ethnic groups are estimated or known to reside in the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick. 
What were the corresponding estimates or known figures for 1950, 1955, 1960, 1965 and 1970. 
Is the definition of the persons referred to in parts ( 1 ) and (2) that they were born outside Australia; if not, on what basis is the classification made. 
Does the classification include Australian-born children of persons born outside Australia. 
5 ) In respect of the answer to part ( 1 ), what percentage of the persons in each group is estimated or known to have taken Australian citizenship. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) How many residents of the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows. Coburg and Brunswick became Australian citizens in each year since1945. 
Were all these new citizens naturalised at their respective town hall. 
If not. what proportion received their citizenship at their respective town hall in each year since 1 945. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
How many taxpayers elected (a) to pay the 2.5 per cent Medibank levy and (b) to join private medical and hospital benefits funds. 
What are the respective figures for the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) How many citizens in the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick are estimated or known to be receiving (a) a service pension and (b) other forms of repatriation benefits. 
How many (a) females and (b) males referred to in part ( 1 ) are receiving benefits and will the Minister provide a break up of each of the various categories of benefits received. 
Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that upwards of 15 000, perhaps even 20 000, applications for citizenship are in hand and are being processed very slowly in Melbourne, holding up the right to citizenship, and therefore the right of the people involved to get on the electoral roll? Is this delay a deliberate attempt by the Government to reduce the number of voters in Labor electorates, where most of the applicants reside, and so to make Labor electorates larger than they should be in the forthcoming distribution of House of Representatives seats and to create in effect an administrative gerrymander? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
1 ) Is the Minister prepared to introduce legislation along similar lines to that operating in the Common Market Countries governing the laws relating to Manufacturers' Agents or Commercial Agents as they are known in Europe. 
Has the Minister rejected a submission made to him by the Apparel and Fashion Agents Association of Australia. 
If so, has the Minister advised them that the  laissez /aire  conditions of the 1 9th Century are to continue, or to put it another way, the law of the jungle is still to prevail. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory, I present the report of the Committee. A protest signed by one member of the Committee and a dissent signed by two members of the Committee are included with the main report. I also present the minutes of the proceedings taken in connection with the inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Mr Macphee)-by  leaveproposed: 
That the House take note of the report. 
-I had intended to seek the leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. I take it that I am now speaking to the motion and that that means I now have a speaking time of IS minutes. 
I should like to correct an impression that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  may have made when he spoke about the Labor Government's attitude to the mining and sale of uranium. When we came into office in 1972 we inherited contracts already signed- I might say lately signed and it seemed to us at the time irresponsibly signed- by the previous Government, some of them in the late hours of that Government. 
-That is right. That was a heartsearching matter for people such as myself, whether we should proceed with contracts which a previous Australian government had entered into. 
I became the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs upon the election and return of the Labor Government. One of the first duties I had was to front up to the question of exploration leases in Arnhem Land. I had to ask: Were they to be granted afresh at the end of January or where they not? As far as I was concerned they were not to be because in my view everything that was being done in the search for uranium, in the development of the project, in the feasibility studies, was fraught with disadvantage and a threat to the Aboriginal people. As far as I am concerned the advantage to the Aboriginal, people and the protection of their social advancement transcends any potential financial gain to the people of Australia from uranium. I think that is one of the principles that should be put before this House tonight. It is good enough to quote  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet but if one examines the qualifications he brings to this debate and examines the state of the art, as one might call it, one can see that we are a long way short of the answers which the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  seems to have accepted and which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  states emphatically as facts of life. 
I believe this is a contest for the hearts and minds of the people of Australia on a very important national issue. It is our moral duty to the rest of the world versus the materialist thirst for financial advantage. I believe we are in the hands of a government of social and environmental vandals who have not a care at all for the rest of humanity for Australia's advantage as long as they can make some more dollars or as long as they can divide the community for their own political advantage. 
I only have to look at the specious euphemisms contained in the Prime Minister's speech. I am absolutely horrified at what the leader of this country- a man who, as far as one can tell from the qualifications which he writes after his name as a result of the education he received here and overseas, understands the English languagehad to say about waste disposal. He said: 
The Government is satisfied that the technology exists for the safe management and ultimate disposal of highly radioactive waste. 
That is utter nonsense. It is designed to mislead the people of Australia. It is not true. 
-It is as simple as that-it is not true. There is no one of any particular skill and understanding of the situation who says it is true. Nobody from the other side of the House has produced one piece of evidence to show that it is true. 
The subject of this debate has been before this Parliament ever since I entered it in 1955. Some 20 years ago the debate came forward in this House. My position is a bit like that of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I am not totally against the mining of uranium as such but I say that while the issue is in doubt we should leave it in the ground, and for the foreseeable future I think the issue is in doubt. When we first discussed this matter here some 20 years ago the House was nearly as packed as it is tonight. When I stood in this place at 8 o'clock one night I was all on my own. The then member of the Northern Territory, Jock Nelson, came in and doubled my audience. Tonight, of course the proceedings are being broadcast. At least what I am saying is being broadcast throughout the House and I guess most honourable members would be listening in their rooms to what is going on here. At that stage, I suppose, most of us thought: Power, yes; nuclear weapons, no. But as time has gone on there are increasing doubts, and they are not just increasing doubts in Australia. 
I was in Europe in January. One only had to speak to ordinary thoughtful people around the place to determine that they all felt the same way. The trade union movement in Germany and France had come together at a meeting in Hamburg and had undertaken to give their support to the Australian trade union movement in respect of what is a moral experience as much as a political one. I believe that the community of Australia ought to take a very serious view of the failure of the Government to have a real debate on this matter. It is a hoax to say there has been any public debate. 
The Prime Minister said that this decision had been motivated by a high sense of moral responsibility. That is a euphemism for political divisiveness and materialist ideology. What sort of moral responsibility is he bringing to this subject? What are the situations about waste? Just take one simple demonstration. Some 20 years ago in this country some testing of nuclear weapons was undertaken at Maralinga and the waste was buried there. It was only by chance during the last 12 to 18 months that someone even remembered the waste was there. For over 20 years the existence of the waste had been forgotten in our own country. How are we to guarantee that we can make the disposal of the waste safe for the next half million years, which as I understand it is the radioactive life of waste material? It is quite clear that there is no way of handling it safely. One has to take extraordinary risks with radioactive waste. It is difficult to transport. The British, who are pretty good at this kind of thing, managed to tip over one of their containers of radioactive waste when it was being transported from the north of Scotland to England for disposal. There is no safe method of disposal. Therefore what the people of Australia have to decide is whether they will allow this proposal to be inflicted upon the Australian community and the rest of the world. 
There are other hazards associated with nuclear energy. If one visits the Alligator River area of the Northern Territory and looks at the mines there one will find an interference with the ecology systems which is likely to produce serious hazards for the whole environment because it is almost impossible to guarantee that there will not be leakage of radioactivity into the water systems of the area. Our record in respect of control of mining in this country is not bright at all. One has only to visit Captains Flat to see what happened there. Steps had to be taken during the term of the Labor Government to overcome the problems caused by the previous record. 
I want to place before the House and the people of this country the threat to the Aboriginal people that lies in the development of uranium resources in their areas. We have an unhappy record wherever we have carried mining development or any other major development close to Aboriginal communities. Arnhem Land is one of the last refuges of Aboriginal people from the assault of modern communities. We have three examples we can turn to in Australia to illustrate how well we have handled the situation, namely Yirrkala, Weipa and Groote Eylandt. We have not been able to handle the social situation in any of these areas. I am very much afraid that developments such as this, with the constant comings and goings of people, with the development of new towns and townships, will have a serious social impact upon the Aboriginal people. Not only do I feel that but at this stage I am certain of it. It is tragic that after these years of waiting and knowing what was likely to happen we have taken very few steps to train the people of the area, even in the materialistic advantage of having employment. 
I do not believe there will be much financial advantage to the Aboriginal people. I think it is irresponsible of the Press to print headlines about 'Aboriginal millionaires'. There are some 4,000 to 5,000 Aboriginal people in Arnhem Land alone. If $ 10m is to come back to the Aboriginal people by way of royalties and the like over a 12-month period the Aboriginal people would perhaps receive $2,500 per head. That amount' will not be paid to them directly nor should it be. The money will not even start to bring many of the facilities of their community up to the ordinary Australian standard for many years. So I appeal to the House to discard some of the arguments that have been placed before it, to disregard the statements of the Prime Minister and other Ministers, including the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, about the surety of the advantage to the Aboriginal people. It will not happen. This is not because it could not possibly happen. It could happen if we turned all the wit, wisdom and will power to the problem and we applied ourselves to it over some time, and we gave the Aboriginal people the real opportunity to take the advantages of modern society in such a way that their younger people were in employment, that enough of their own people could handle the social situations that develop. I think that it is irresponsible to the point of being scandalous that we should be casting them into this situation at this time. 
I would like to make some other points in the few minutes left. First, I have grave doubts as to the economic advantage to the people of Australia of the actual mining Who owns the mining companies concerned? Who are the beneficial owners of Pancontinental? If I remember rightly it is an offshoot of Getty Oil. Who are the shareholders in these operations? Who is getting all the advantage of, for example, the coal mining in Queensland? Who owns Utah? 
-Oh, the Australian taxpayer! 
-The Utah Development Company has made a profit of $240m out of its coal mining, with 3,000 employees. It took out a profit of $80,000 per employee. Of course, some of that came back in taxes, but that is chicken feed compared with the advantage and gains that go to foreign owners in most cases. 
I read with interest again the statement of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  about the possible 500,000 employment opportunities that will flow from this. Of course, he did not say it quite like that; he only gave that impression. He is a rather impressionistic politician. He never says things directly; he just leaves things hanging in the atmosphere. He quoted a report in South Australia so that he could say: 'I did not say that'. It is all implied and it is all written into the record. It is what people heard. It is nonsense, of course. 

 Mr friend, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  I think it was, cited figures which indicated that 500 employees might be involved. Honourable members only have to look at open cut mining to see how much work can be carried out with modern machinery. In the open cut mines in Australia every person employed produces 30 tonnes of coal per man shift. How many will be needed to mine the volume of uranium that we want? 
It is time that we gave serious consideration to the alternatives. For all practical purposes solar power is being ignored in this country. Some 20 years ago quite a battle went on with the authorities in Darwin to have them accept solar water heaters. I remember the argument that went forward on the building of the leprosarium in Darwin. The technical engineers and the Department of Public Works people, being naturally conservative as many of these people are, did not want to have a bar of solar water heaters. I think it was  Sir Paul  Hasluck who managed to have his way on the matter, so the entire supply of hot water for the leprosarium came from solar energy. Of course, all sorts of difficulties are involved, but if we spent as much money on the development of solar power as we do on research into nuclear energy I am sure we would produce a much more satisfactory result. 
One source of power which the world has basically ignored, except in odd spots like Holland with its windmills and except for the windmills on Australian farms and the windlight system which people use to produce electricity on homesteads around the world, is the wind. I am not suggesting that we should go back to the use of sailing ships, but I shall just give an illustration of the power of wind. About a century ago the ship  Lightning,  which weighed 2,600 tons, travelled at 20 knots for 24 hours. If one goes to the publication  Janes Fighting Ships  to see what kind of power is needed to send a ship through the water at that pace for that length of time one finds that, say, the destroyer  Vendetta  with 51,000 shaft horsepower takes about 100 tonnes of fuel a day. Of course, the only thing that wind has ever been used for effectively is to sail ships, but there must be plenty of other areas in which it can be harnessed and used effectively. The same applies to the tides. 
Another development going on around the world is an attempt to find a more economic use of the power that we have. I know of a factory in my electorate which had 160 machines. These were replaced by 10 machines using the power that perhaps sixteen of the previous machines used. So only about 10 per cent of the power that was required originally was required for the same output. 
I think this is a moral issue. The Government has adopted a totally immoral stance. Words fail me in trying to describe the speech by the Prime Minister. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  which states that this House rejects the Government's precipitate decision and sets out our requirements: Commitments from customer countries, international safeguards to ensure that our uranium will not contribute to nuclear war, and an assurance that the Aboriginal people will not be disadvantaged. 
I am the Federal member for Wills, the area in which  Mr Salemi  operates. I was responsible in the first instance for taking up with the then Minister for Immigration and Ethnic affairs the question of  Mr Salemi's  readmission to Australia after he had been out here at the special invitation of the Italian Federation of Migrant Workers and Their Families, known as FILEF, had gone back home and then had come back again. I know  Mr Salemi,  although I will not say that I know him intimately. I suppose that I meet him once a week. We see one another around the street, I want to make it quite clear that  Mr Salemi  at every point in time since he came to this country has acted as a responsible, common-sense resident, and is fulfilling a very important function in the Italian community in the Brunswick and Coburg area, which has one of the greatest concentrations of Italian people in Australia. I am not concerned with amnesties, ministerial authority or anything else. Why is it that in an instance such as this the Minister must exercise power rather than common sense? 
I do not think that the debate is about whether  Mr Salemi  wants to say here forever. Who does? We cannot all say that this is where we are going to stay forever. And what does the Minister mean by 'permanent residence'? The man has been here continuously for three years. He has lived successfully in the community. He has played a very effective and useful role, and one only has to look at the work of FILEF in this regard. Only 800 people went to it in 1975 but the next year 2,000 people went to it and it has been running at that rate ever since. I know the area intimately. I know that  Mr Salemi  fulfils a very important function. It is not a question of the amour propre of the Minister. It is not a question of whether he is a member of this or that political party. It is not a question of what the Ombudsman or the High Court or anybody else says. The common-sense decision for the benefit of a community which has invited hundreds of thousands of Italians to this country is to leave  Mr Salemi  here. 
I shall take up a few points that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  made. He talked about left-wing people being on his side. I hope they are; I hope I am regarded as one of them. The Minister said that  Mr Salemi  has no fundamental rights, but I suppose from this Minister's view of life nobody has any fundamental rights. However, I believe it is in the interests of Australians, the interests of Italians of the Brunswick and Coburg areas and in the interests of the general Italian community of Australia that  Mr Salemi  stay here. I had a lot of other things which I wanted to say but time seems to run away in this place. The Minister said that  Mr Salemi  is paid by the Communist Party of Italy. Forgive me if I am wrong but that is as I - 
-The Minister said that he was a paid official of something. Anyway, I will not argue about that. As I understand it, the fact is that FILEF is financially supported by the 
Italian Government. I do not know exactly what words the Minister used- I tried to take them down as he spoke- but I know the impression that he gave to the people listening in to the broadcast of proceedings and that is the impression that lingers. The Minister also said that  Mr Salemi  had no specialist qualifications but how many Italian journalists are there available in this country for the sort of work he is doing? 
-Are there? Well, where are they? 
-That is right; it is all right as long as they are members of the Liberal Party or something like that. The fact is that he is a journalist, an effective journalist and a graduate in Arts from one of the Italian universities. 
He may well be, but I could describe the honourable member in terms unflattering also. However, I will not bother because he is only taking up the time for debate. The facts are that  Mr Salemi  is employed by an organisation which is doing a very effective and useful job in this country to the great advantage of the Italian community and  Mr Salemi  is here at their invitation.  Mr Giovanni  Sgro, whom the Minister mentioned earlier, and whose letter the Minister read out, is a close friend and associate of mine. He has been nominated by the Australian Labor Party to be a member of that august institution, the Victorian Legislative Council. He is going to win the seat. 
None of us can assert that people are here as permanent residents or anything else. So I ask the Minister: For heaven's sake, just this once exercise common sense. It is not a question of clemency or humanitarianism; it is a question of sensitivity to the needs of the community. This matter has been running for years. I have handled hundreds of cases in my time as a member of Parliament on behalf of people who have been excluded from this country, refused residency or refused naturalisation on these grounds, and eventually I have won a lot of those cases. It is time for the Minister to show common sense and do a service for the community. He should forget about the current conflict over the terms of the amnesty. He should make a new amnesty. He has the ministerial authority and should exercise that authority on behalf of the people for a change. 
-There would be many worse things than working for a socialist government. It certainly is better to be working for a socialist government than to be out of work under a Liberal-National Country Party conservative government. I have listened to my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  for the last 20 minutes. I was absolutely astonished at the pre-Copernican obscurantism which he brings to the consideration of economic affairs. He is the last of the flatearthers. I listened to his statements about the improvement in the employment situation. You might put it this way: People are not being disemployed as fast as they were before or at the same relative rate that they were before. Translated into English that means that there are not so many going out of work so rapidly every month. To talk like that is to be totally insensitive to the social needs of the economy. The honourable member talked about the inflation rate. The inflation rate now is slightly different from the inflation rate that the present Government inherited but it is composed of all sorts of jiggery pokery with the tax systems, Medibank and various other things. I have watched with interest over the last few months the debate on the tax system. I am not quite sure what the tax system is and how it is worked out and it is quite obvious that nobody else does either. 
I want to take up the issue of the continuing attack on the work force and on the Labor Government's record. It is true that in 1975 the inflation rate was at a level which we of the Labor Party did not like. It is true that unemployment was at a level which we did not like either. But it is also true that these things were a sample of what was happening in the rest of the world. It is my view that governments ought to be able to do better in managing the economy. I do not believe that there are any objective forces outside the management of government if we apply our wit and our wisdom to them instead of outmoded economic theories. Let us consider what the economy was like that the present Government took over. Productivity per person was increasing. Some of the increases were dramatic and I will give some details in a moment. 
-We would have to go backwards pretty fast to keep up with this Government's performance. Household savings were at an all time high in proportion to the gross domestic product. We had high overseas balances. Exports were greater than imports. Our average weekly earnings and their buying capacity were amongst the highest in the world. There is no doubt about those things. I will refer to just a couple of these issues. Let us consider first the question of productivity. One of the most depressing features of the present Government's behaviour- and frankly I cannot understand how the people of Australia stand for it- is the continuing attack upon the work force and the continual pressure on its living standards. The whole burden of this multi-page document called the Budget Papers and the Budget Statements is to lower the living standard of the ordinary average Australian. 
-Of course it is. Let us consider the figures for 1973 and relate them to the figures for 1972. How many bottles of milk could one buy with average weekly earnings in 1972? One could buy about 100 more bottles of milk in 1975. In 1972 it took 26 weeks' pay to buy the cheapest car on the road and in 1975 it took about 20 weeks' pay. I could go through a whole catalogue of things but I do not have time tonight to educate honourable members opposite. Let us consider this question of productivity because it is the very burden of the Government's complaint about us. I will read a few facts and figures that I have taken basically from my own electorate and places I know. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It might be advisable to allow the honourable member for Wills to make his speech without assistance from honourable members on my right. 
-I am gratified for your protection,  Mr Deputy  Speaker; I am easily intimidated by the people opposite. It would be a worthwhile exercise for honourable members opposite to take a trip to Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Pty Ltd, a government owned company operating in this city of Canberra. The Government that I supported re-equipped it and it went into business again last year. I think my friend at the table, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley),  unveiled a plaque there when he went out to open it. It is a magnificent industrial operation. The board of the Brickworks searched the world to find the most effective and efficient instruments for making bricks. Three years ago, before we started on that project, it took about 100 people to produce about 500,000 bricks a week. Now I think that company has a capacity to produce 700,000 bricks a week and employs 35 people. The Government and its supporters say that it is the cost of labour that is killing Australia. Those 35 employees turn out about 700,000 bricks a week if they are going at full bore. That represents $2,000 worth of bricks per employee, including typists and the manager. On average they get paid between $160 and $170 for that work. Yet the Government and its supporters have the effrontery to say that it is wages that are the principal cost. 
I turn now to another example. I visited a container firm operating in my electorate. Over recent years it has installed new equipment. In one series of operations it increased production and the wage cost of the operation has fallen from $100 per hour seven years ago to $20 per hour now. That is a reduction in the absolute cost of production. It reduced the number of people in the operation from about 12 to 2. 
Let us consider something with which we all are familiar and which is one of the characteristics of modern society. I am not saying that the Labor Government produced it but it is totally erroneous to suggest that in any way we inhibited it. Wherever possible we encouraged it and it is one of the factors that we have to face. The size of the workforce is going to decrease absolutely and relatively to the rest of the population to produce the amount of goods we want because the consumer capacity of the people of Australia is much less now than their production capacity. Let us consider Trans- Australia Airlines. In 1962 TAA carried 660,000 passengers and it employed 4,200 employees. In 1967 it carried 943,000 passengers and had 6,000 employees. Relatively those figures are much the same. But let us consider the dramatic change in the last 10 years. It now has 7,800 employees and carries more than 4,000,000 passengers. The number of employees per 1,000 passengers is falling continuously. 
Even the much maligned seamen have done the same. I have some figures here but perhaps honourable members would take my word for it because there are a few other figures I want to give. Let us take coal. The situation is dramatic. Let us consider the productivity of the people involved in the coal industry. Underground 20 years ago each man at the workface produced about 2.8 tons of coal per hour per man shift. By 1975 the figure had increased to approximately 10 tons. If we consider the open-cut operation production has gone from 6.8 tonnes per man shift to nearly 30 tonnes per man shift at the maximum. That coal is worth about $45 per tonne, so let us say that coal worth $1,200 is produced each man shift. Those coalminers are probably getting paid $200 a week. The Government and its supporters have the effrontery to say that the real cost of production in Australia and the real threat to our stability and to the economy is the high cost of wages. I have other figures here relating to the workforce on the wharves and all the rest of it. Just consider the implications of the coal industry and the Utah organisation. Last year I think Utah made a profit before tax of $240m. 
-' Good', says my honourable friend opposite. 
-No, that is right. But who did make the loss? That company has 3,000 employees. Each of those employees produced $80,000 of the year's profit for that company. Our friend from Queensland,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  objects to the demand that seamen be paid Australian rates of pay. Let us consider another aspect that is familiar to us all. We can do the arithmetic on it from the records available to us. The total return from Telecom Australia taking into account profit and interest was about $400m. Telecom has 80,000 employees so that is about $5,000 profit per employee. Yet Telecom will try to chisel people out of their tea money. Australia Post, which did not make quite as dramatic a profit as that, will stop the whole postal works by refusing to give people a reduction in their working time. 
What I am saying is that the attack upon the work force for its incompetence in production and because its wages are extravagant is totally erroneous and against the facts. This country was handed over to honourable members opposite in a powerful economic situation relative to other countries. They had at their disposal one of the world's most wealthy countries, as indeed we did. There are very few resources which we need to obtain from any other country. Even our engineers are high class, and some of them get into this House. The only people who seem to be slipping a bit are those who give us economic advice. We are bound not to change our whole philosophy from a money-oriented to a resource -oriented philosophy. I will not say tonight that I know what the answers are but I do know that the answers which are continually trotted out and the reasons given for the state of the economy are not correct. 
Let us consider some of the things which we have done over the last few years. This Government has done them and we have done them. We reduced tariffs, the assumption being that this would bring into the country cheaper goods which would create competition and prices would come down. But they did not. We put up interest rates, but not to the level they are now, the assumption being that to make money dearer would put less pressure on goods and on the supply of things such as housing, that it would create more competition in one way or another and reduce prices. But it did not. In the last two Budgets we have seen a dramatic attack upon government expenditure, the theory being that if we reduce government spending we reduce the drain on the taxation system and the drain on the public exchequer; we reduce the deficit, we transfer funds to the private sector, and everything will take off. But this has not happened and it will not happen because the most erroneous of our convictions- I only associate myself with it in this House because I am pan of the apparatus of the Parliament- is that by doing these things the private sector will take up the slack in the area which is not as strong as it ought to be. That is a totally erroneous theory. 
The belief that government expenditure is evil or wrong or has an insidious effect upon the community's welfare is totally wrong. As I see it, the manufacturing capacity of this country per person related to our consumption is greater than we need. Some 20 per cent of our manufacturing capacity is not used. I know that our primary industry is remarkably efficient. In some areas of production it is more efficient than primary industry in the rest of the world. In some areas productivity per person is greater than it is in anywhere else in the world. I looked up some figures the other day- I have not been through all the figures for all time- and it is my impression that this is the only country which has produced more than one tonne of wheat per head of population in one year. That happened about seven or eight years ago and I think it will happen again this year. 
What is the situation with regard to public expenditure? This is the very basis of the supply of all our social needs- education, health and all welfare services. However, the Government may well discard them all by saying that people ought to look after themselves, or that when they are sick let them pick themselves up, or that when they need education let them pay for it themselves- they can all go to Melbourne Grammar. The Government may discard its responsibility to provide those services in favour of having material things. In this country government sources supply nearly all of the power. They- provide nearly all of the water supply. Government is the fundamental owner, controller and developer of the communications system. In almost an absolute sense it is the principal supplier of transport, even to the extent of supplying roads for private trucks and others to operate on, supplying the railway system, the wharves, the maintenance of airfields and the ownership of principal airlines. Government utilities are the skeleton, the framework, and the very heart of Australian productivity. Stop the electricity supply and we stop the country. Stop the telecommunications system and we stop the country. Yet in the last two Budgets the whole operation of the economy has been grinding to a halt because of the prescription for stagnation that has been written into the principle which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has applied to the Budget- the reduction in public expenditure. 
I am not sure how we should go about overcoming the deficiencies in our economic system to allow us to take the great wealth that is in the country- and there is a very big money stock in the banking system- and apply it to the public utilities. However, I have some ideas. For instance, in the case of the Commonwealth Brickworks Ltd the Commonwealth guaranteed the loan and the Commonwealth Bank of Australia lent the money. Before the House or before the Senate there is a Bill which will give guarantees to private schools. The schools will borrow the money from the banking system and the Commonwealth will guarantee the loans. We do that already in the Territories. It may well be that this is a way to tap the great reserves in the banking system, in the trading banks and particularly in the savings banks, and apply those reserves to our needs. It is absolutely ridiculous that in a country which has adequate funds available in the system and is extraordinarily fortunate in the resources available to it, which has a first class adrninistative system and a very good monitoring system throughout the country in the form of the banks, private and public, and the branches of banking, we cannot do almost whatever we want to do wherever we want to do it. We have failed to take up the challenge. 
We are in a time of total economic and social change. The world is different from what it was 10 or 15 years ago. I agree in many respects with the sort of things which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said about it. We have to change our way of thinking. That is why I address my remarks to the honourable member for Lilley. He is living in the past, as is the 
Government. How on earth can we justify to successive generations letting the economy slow to a halt, letting people become unemployed and redundant, allowing our great manufacturing capacity to lie idle at a time when our railway system needs complete rehabilitation. If tonight we were to ask the Broken Hill Pry Co. Ltd to produce for us another 200 million tonnes of steel so that we could set out a rehabilitation program for the railway system, BHP could produce it without any trouble at all. It would not need to introduce new investment or anything of that nature. 
One of the things that disheartens me about the present situation is the utter intellectual sterility of the economic debate. I suppose that I am a philosophic agnostic in this regard. I do not believe what I read in documents such as the Budget Papers about the absolute effect of the money supply or the absolute effect of interest rates or the absolute effect of deficits. 
MrO'Keefe-Oh! 
I suggest to the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  that he do what I did and ask the Parliamentary Library- I will ask the Library for him if he does not know where it is- to prepare a list showing deficits, inflation rates, gross domestic products and increases in money supplies over the last 10 or 15 years in 10 or 1 1 countries which are equivalent to our own, and then find the absolute correlation. In most respects the kind of analysis that is necessary shows that the correlation is not there. I hope that we will turn our intellectual attention to this question. I do not think we can any longer tolerate our friend from Flinders, the Treasurer, running this country. I think the Budget is a prescription for stagnation. It inflicts sacrifices upon the people of this country who can least afford it, namely, the Aboriginals, the migrants in my electorate and the people who need State school education. These are the people who suffer the most grievous disabilities. The Budget means a transfer of wealth from the work force to the corporation. I think it is a totally immoral document. 
-I want to take a few moments to record a view about the impact of section 24 of the Constitution upon both the way in which we run this Paliament and the future of the Parliament. I raise this matter in view of the fact that a redistribution is being carried out and probably the present proposals will be agreed to. Basically, this redistribution will be one of the fairer ones that has been carried out since I came to this Parliament. I raise this matter also because a lot of consideration is being given to the new and permanent Parliament House. Section 24 of the Constitution states: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of the senators. 
What that means exactly is that as a result of the present redistribution there will be a reduction in the number of members in this House. I think that is a very serious departure from the needs of this Parliament. 
I am moved to say something about this matter because in the past 18 months I have been pretty active on some of the parliamentary committees. I happen to represent a smallish electorate, which has the good sense to vote Labor very solidly, I work at it, I hope pretty effectively. Geographically one has an advantage in living m Melbourne because of its proximity to Canberra. I find the execution of my duties a very heavy burden, as I know all my colleagues do. It is very difficult to service the committees. If we are going to have an effective committee system it is idiotic to reduce the number of members in this House. It is totally illogical to reduce the number of members in this House at the same time as the burden on members is increasing, and to do so at a time when the population is increasing is even more idiotic. 
I believe that the fundamental principle of representation is accessibility to members. In 1949 there were about 8 million people to be represented and the size of this Parliament was doubled. There are now about 14 million people. I suggest that we should not try to break the nexus as such between the House of Representatives and the Senate. Obviously, that would arouse the ire of the senators. But if we do not do something about the situation in the next five or ten years I suspect that there will be so many pressures upon this institution that we will have to increase the size of the House of Representatives. To do that we will have to increase the size of the Senate. There would not be too many supporters in this place or in the community for a proposition such as that. 
It seems to me that the only tiling to do is to adopt a totally different proposition from the relationship between the Senate and the House of Representatives which now defines our numbers and relates to population. I have circulated to all honourable members my view about this. I have suggested that we ought to conduct a referendum on a proposal that there be one member of the House of Representatives for every 100,000 people or part thereof in each of the States and Territories. In that way we would also protect the rights of the original States. It seems to me that 100,000 people is a reasonable number, but I still think it is slightly more than members of parliament ought to represent if they are going to do it property. I suggest that we ought to do this because the response to my letter to all honourable members indicates that the general feeling is that we ought to do it. 
One of the interesting things about this institution is that we can reach a stage where everybody is in complete agreement but nothing happens. It took 10 years to get going in 1967 the referendum concerning Aborigines, in which I took an active part, even though for the last five years everybody was in complete agreement. I do not support the theory that people will not vote for constitutional change. I thought the referendums this year were a pretty good demonstration of the fact that people are starting to think about the Constitution. People might say- not those in the House tonight who have shown enough intelligence to come and listen to me- that people are sick and tired of elections. They are not. 
-No. We fight elections every year in the municipality in my electorate with more vigour than most people fight Federal elections. The honourable member will be satisfied and gratified to know that we won very strongly a week or so back. I think that while people are thinking about referendum issues and constitutional matters and have the memory of the recent referendums clearly in their minds it is a good time to run another referendum. If enough time is taken to educate them about it we can get on with the job. If we do not alter section 24 of the Constitution, the next thing we will have on our hands will be another 60 senators- perish the thought. 
-Like my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  I served with Leslie Haylen. He was a member when I was first elected to this Parliament. I suppose the best term that one could apply to him is that he was a blithe spirit. He brought into this place some touch which I hope is not lacking but which I think may be. People such as himself, the late Edward Ward, the late Arthur Calwell, Reg Pollard and so on, but particularly Leslie Haylen, brought to debate in this place a touch which is perhaps hard to deliver at this time when we are in such a hurry to do things. He was a man who, both in prose and verse, was able to leave his mark on Australian literature. I expect that if someone wanted to study Leslie Haylen the place to look would be in  Hansard,  for sprinkled through that would be his philosophy, his wit and his attitude on everything that comes and goes. 
I wish to make two points about the way in which he expressed himself and his capacity for using the English language to get the message across. He was a very humane man with an attitude to humanity, no  matter from  where people came. One night the House was debating the question of providing aid for people in need in overseas countries. I think it was  Sir John  McEwen who said that we had long range plans about aid. Leslie put the thing in a nutshell, as succinctly as it could have been said in our language, when he said: 'It is no good having long range plans for short range bellies'. He had an attitude to the pomp in a place such as this and the anomalous nature of it in some ways. I remember that one night here some friends of his were excluded from the Speaker's Gallery because they were not wearing ties. He made the point that his friends had turned up in one of the finest products of the Australian countrysiderolledneck pullovers. He said that no exception was taken to the ladies who were friends of the people in office and who turned up in the flayed skins of a poor mink. On the other hand, the  Speaker  chose to sit there, as he said, with the rear end of a sheep on his head. This was Leslie Haylen on the system. He could see the anomalies. He could see the issues as clearly as anybody. 
I send this message to his family: We in this House who remember him and those of us who have taken an active and interested part in politics in the last  30  years will remember him, although it is  14  years since he retired from this place. He went to the First World War as a young man. I think he was only  78  years of age when he died. That means that he was probably only  16V4  years of age or thereabouts when he managed to get into France to serve in the same unit as his brothers, one of whom I think was killed almost in his presence. So I place on record my deep regret. I know I express the sentiments of all those who served with him here. Australia is the worse for his passing, but it was blessed by his presence on this continent. 
-We have been listening at some length to people debating- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-We have been debating for some time- 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-We have before us two Bills, the National Health Amendment Bill 1977 and the National Health Acts Amendment Bill 1977. There is a difference. It is a little hard to determine whether there is any distinction. They are both part of a complicated search for devious answers to what are, in fact, straight questions. What does the community do for you when you are helpless? I shall explain what we should be doing for people when they are helpless. The problem is that we face these questions in a totally materialist society. These problems concern people as human beings, as social units and in a personal sense. We only have to consider the way in which we bring out the quality of our administrative action on other questions. 
Let us imagine that somewhere outside this House a couple of cars crash together. They burst into flames. What is the first thing on the spot? It is the fire brigade to put out the fire to protect the property. What is the next one? It is the tow truck to take away the vehicles to gain a profit. What is the next thing? It is the police, part of the protective device of society for property to see who has committed the error. Over most of Australia, not necessarily in the Australian Capital Territory, a person will wait interminable times, depending on the time of the week, for medical attention or for the ambulance to deal with the human being. The philosophy expressed in these Bills and in the speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  expressed that materialist viewpoint. The Minister said that this Bill is a major advance and that it represents a new era of financial security for the patient. The fact that, generally speaking, patients will pay more and the whole system is still in the same state of disarray does not seem to matter. As long as the Government can pat itself on the back, using these cliches all the time, it at least feels that it is getting somewhere. The Government believes that the cost of the patient cannot be expected to remain exclusively its responsibility. What I like about this is the way in which the Government is able to dissociate itself from membership of the community of which it is a part. 
What is the Government's responsibility? It is to ensure that anybody in this community who is in need of help has adequate help delivered at the time of need to the place where it is needed. It is a simple, straight logistic question. It is complicated by a befuddled approach to the philosophy of private enterprise of the duty of the individual to fend for himself. It is also all part of an enormous cost structure which we call insurance. Private medical insurance and health insurance is part of this legislation. Each one of us is pouring an enormous amount of our own personal funds into insuring against eventualities. We insure cars at increasingly high cost. We insure ourselves and other people against third party damage. We insure our houses at increasingly high cost although decreasing numbers of houses are burned down. There is the high cost to industry of workers compensation and the high cost of life insurance. We insure ourselves against age and the disability of being thrown out of the workforce. Honourable members pay 1 1 per cent of their salary for this purpose. I think the cost is $2,500 for every one of us. We insure against accident. 
It seems to me that the time has come to be a little more rational and treat most of these problems- perhaps not some of the private ones associated with motor vehicles and so on, although as far as personal accident is concerned the national compensation scheme had a lot going for it- as normal social needs and bring them together. I draw the attention of honourable members and the Minister for Health to the patient situation. It is all very well to talk about a person having to contribute according to his means and to ask what his means are as though it is very difficult to determine how much any particular individual can contribute at any time. What is wrong with creating a publicly available, publicly charged and publicly salaried medical system? I should have thought a large number of honourable members would support that proposal without any equivocation. 
The repatriation system in this country is available for our observation. At present half a million or more people use its services. People might get repatriation benefits for some minor disability. The repatriation system is available to increasing numbers of people for any disability. What astonishes me when I have been through the repatriation hospitals or been a patient in them is that I see people whom I know philosophically, politically and in every other way resist every effort to produce a national health service which will deliver health services to people regardless of their salary or anything else at the time of need. The repatriation system is respectable. People win their wounds in the cause of freedom. It is an honest thing to go into a repatriation hospital and be treated by a salaried servant. One never wants to inquire too far into the actual cause of the disability of some of the soldiery, particularly people in the Air Force and the Navy, but the services are publicly delivered and publicly paid for. 
-I am not talking about the cost. I am talking about the delivery of the service. The honourable member for Swan all his life has had the advantage and benefit of publicly delivered services of one sort or another, whether it is walking on the road, sending his children to a publicly supported school, State or non-State, or sometimes being cared for and travelling to Canberra at public expense for what reason one cannot tell. The facts are that the rest of the community accepts continuing responsibility to people. I believe that this debate is just another incident in the long road to try to produce a rational medical service. I personally believe that there is only one way to do it. It should be publicly funded. I do not mind paying my share of the taxes. The original concept of having a special tax for it was necessary politically because of the state of the nation. However, as a result of circumstances beyond our control and what the Senate did to the legislation, this did not happen. The health service was to be publicly charged to consolidated revenue. That is the logical way in which a mature commonsense society should do it. In other words, we should deliver medical services to the people at the time of need. They should be paid for out of consolidated revenue and they should be available to everyone. That is the only commonsense, logical way to do it. But I suppose we will keep tinkering with the system, following the will-o - the-wisp private enterprise, where people look after themselves and we will get nowhere. 
The same applies to the philosophy expressed in the legislation towards pathology services. Recently I was a recipient of the medical and health services of this community. When one walks into the Phillip medical centre immediately one has a sense of security. That comes not just from the quality of the centre, which I suppose is apparent only after one has received the service, but from the comprehensive nature of the service as a piece of patient therapy. There is no great pressure on the doctors. They do not have a whole column of people waiting when they are dealing with a patient. I was impressed by and grateful for the way in which I was treated subsequently in the Woden Valley Hospital. I cannot understand why anybody would resist having that sort of service readily available to every person in this community? In my lifetime I have had the benefit of the repatriation system, during the war as a soldier, later as a citizen, subsequently as a backbench member of this House and again as a 
Minister. The service was always readily available. It provided total care and, regardless of rank, everyone received equal care and attention. I cannot understand why anybody would resist such a service being provided for everybody in the community. I cannot understand why we do not just go ahead, establish the system and pay for it out of consolidated revenue. 
-We of course have had placed before us something which is rather more a problem than I think a solution. I make no reflection upon the present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  in that regard. I think that we are facing one of the more intractable problems of government- the relationship between local situations and national situations. Nobody has found a solution. Australia is in consistent and continual trouble about it. The Australian Capital Territory will find itself in the same situation. In Britain long-established communities are in great trouble because they want to have some sort of autonomy. Papua New Guinea faces the same difficulty. I am therefore prepared to agree with the objective that the Minister has outlined. I am not certain that I agree with the proposals. I know that he does not put them before us with a view that we should agree with them but that we should examine them. 
The Minister's statement carried the optimistic note that we would have the matter settled. Surely from the Australian experience we would say that anything to do with constitutions and the relationships between the various levels of government will never be settled. So I say to the Minister: 'It is a good statement but is it about a good solution?' I notice that new federalism raises its multifaceted head. I think the problem is in some ways impossible of solution. But one of the great difficulties in facing governmental questions here, and I suppose everywhere else, is that we are more likely to concentrate on structural rather than functional solutions. Instead of looking at the function which we want to perform, making that the objective of the consideration and then producing the functions, we are likely to take existing functions and get on with the job of fitting people and institutions to them. I think that the problem of relationships between the Australian people through their government and Parliament here or the local people of Canberra through their Assembly will still remain unresolved. So all I ask is that whatever solutions we finally come up with, whatever laws we finally pass through this Parliament, we do not make any inflexible rules. It is surely a lesson to all Austalians that a written Constitution, with the great difficulty of changing it, is poison to progress. I hope we will avoid that in the Australian Capital Territory. 
During my period as the Minister in charge of the Australian Capital Territory I hoped that we would evolve the situation that gradually the Legislative Assembly would recognise that the authority and opportunity that was placed before it had real substance. One thing that always bothered me was the way in which it continually demanded to know what were its powers. I suppose, to use the vernacular, one would say: 'Your powers are whatever you can get away with'. In other words, you produce the legislation and it passes through the system. The Legislative Assembly is in the same position as we are here. It is always possible that the Senate or the High Court will declare invalid whatever we do and veto it. There are very few institutions that have total autonomy in the sense that the Assembly wanted it defined. 
I suppose that in a sense the Legislative Assembly was a body of my own creation. I make that rather modest assumption before I leave the town. The Assembly appears never to have appreciated the power that lay before it. There is an immense body of law in the Australian Capital Territory. I think that 1 50 or more ordinances are listed which cover almost every area of human endeavour. I used to say to the Assembly- and I presume the present Minister for the Capital Territory has said so too- 'You make the laws about those things and if they transgress the national policies as we see them we have not only a right but also a duty to amend them, send them back or veto them '. I suppose it is unfortunate that when we created the Assembly we did not give it adequate drafting facilities. I accept some responsibility for that. I suppose our Government has to accept some responsibility. But we all have to admit that there was difficulty in getting adequate drafting staff in Australia. This was one of the difficulties that we faced as a government of change. I take it that the present Government has faced the same difficulty in trying to change our decisions back again. I think that this is an area of expertise in the law to which we will have to give more attention. The Assembly always seemed to react by assuming that the initiative lay with the Minister and the Department. It is my regret that so far the Assembly has not shown much more energy and initiative in that regard. Members of the Assembly, because of the part time nature of their position, lack the necessary time in which to perform their duties. I suppose that the most significant piece of legislation to flow from the membership of the Assembly was the projected law on consumer affairs introduced by  Ms Kelly.  There may have been other legislation of which I am unaware. This brings me to the issue of the membership of the Assembly. I think we can make a case for full time membership. I was not so sure of that three years ago, but the more I see of government, the more I see of the necessity to strengthen the representative contribution to government of this country, the more I am convinced that that is something we will have to face. 
-Everything, I suppose, costs money. But money is the measure not so much of what the cost will be but of one 's capacity to supply facilities. The honourable member costs money. I do not regret that and we will keep paying this money until the next election. In a community such as this the cost of a legislative assembly is a relatively marginal one compared with the total cost of the city. I think that cost is of little significance. It is a question of input. By putting in more representative people we might reduce the necessity for other public officials. Some 18 members of the Assembly would be administering a city of some 200,000 people. This is nearly half the population of Tasmania. We should bear in mind the number of representatives, or misrepresentatives, we get from Tasmania. There are 1 5 in this Parliament as well as representatives in the Tasmanian Parliament and on all the local councils. I am not suggesting that Tasmania does not need all these people. I have come to the conclusion, again out of a great deal of experience first as a member and then as a Minister in this Parliament, that we need many more directly representative people taking a part in effective government and government control. 
I think that the honourable member is dead right. I think there should be no greater reflection on Tasmania than the fact that it produced the present Victorian Government obviously by it colonisation program. The problem in respect of Canberra is that the 18 people elected to the Legislative Assembly have other work to do. We must ask whether membership should be on a full time basis. If we do- and this point was made in the Minister's statement- we would exclude from government many people of great talent and capacity to serve this city. There may well be a case for some part time and some full time members. This is a decision that could be made by the Assembly itself according to the functions it sees it ought to carry out. 
I do not think in these circumstances that a membership of 18 is enough. It is time we did what we wanted to do in the first instance, namely, divide the Australian Capital Territory into four or five electorates with three to five members to be elected from each electorate on the basis of proportional representation. Under such a system we might end up with an assembly consisting of about 20 or 30 people. I suggest that this area should be examined. I cannot overstress the importance of the representative function. I think that in a consideration of these matters we are often too bound by both precedent and existing situations. 
One of my other disappointments during my time as Minister was that the Assembly did not take up the right it had as a result of the power given to it for its members to have an effective say in respect of authorities. I was disappointed when  Mr Gordon  Walsh retired from the Assembly and from the Australian Capital Territory Milk Authority that another member of the Assembly did not take over chairmanship of the Authority. I believe that we are faced with the questions of ministerial authority in government and the whole system in which we are cast. I think that we are a little obsessed with the managing director concept of Ministers. In fact the Minister is not just the managing director, he is the whole board of directors. There should be more involvement in the political input in relation to these matters, just as there is in some other countries. Britain is a case in point, although I do not think the Ministers there act as teams all the time. Here we have a multitude of authorities and the Legislative Assembly ought to be the  chairman  and ought to have a more effective say in direction. 
My view was that there should have been a continuous evolution of local government in Canberra along the line of total input rather than an attempt to define it by ordinance and administrative fiat. I do not agree with the deferment of the election of the Legislative Assembly. I do not think there will be any advantage in having the present members of the Legislative Assembly involved in these deliberations. That could be done by the newly elected members. I can understand why the Liberal members of the Legislative Assembly would not want the election to be held. I presume that they would have visited upon them the wrath of the citizens of this area because of the disadvantages imposed on them by this Government- although not always by the present Minister for the Capital Territory, of course. 
-I am glad that there is such a large audience here at present. I point out to honourable members the difficulty in which the Government finds itself, or the Minister finds himself, in attempting to define the areas which ought to be regarded as national responsibilities and those which ought to be local responsibilities. Most of us would agree, although members of the Legislative Assembly may not, that control of land ought to be reserved to the national body; but why should the matter of holidays be reserved to the national body? I remember that when I was the responsible Minister I granted a number of holidays in the Australian Capital Territory which brought down on my innocent head the wrath of the  Tocal  employers. However, I think that the matter of holidays ought to be a local affair. But what is the difference between these things? Why are unit titles and long service leave reserved to the national body when other things are to be transferred? I put these things forward for consideration, not with a suggestion that they be decided one way or the other but to show the very great difficulty we face in trying to make a decision about them. 
Is the role of this Parliament adequate? The Governor-General in Council, that is the Ministry or the Executive Council, will be able to veto decisions. The reasons will be tabled here, but will we then be able to disallow the veto? I hope that we will examine the legislation in that respect when it comes forward. As for the replacement of members of the Legislative Assembly, I think we should use the Tasmanian system and not have nomination by the parties. I think that both the system that we use for the Senate and the one that is to be used for the Legislative Assembly constitute a denial of the representative principle. I do not think people ought to be able to sit in representative bodies unless they are actually direct representatives. 
I am not too sure that the abolition of the Department of the Capital Territory is wise. My experience after examining government bodies throughout Australia as a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation is that we need some overall authority or functional unit which can bring everything into focus. One of the great disabilities of nearly every area of Australia is the dispersal of functions through authorities which do not need to co-operate with one another. For instance, I disagreed with the transfer of the Commonwealth car service to the Department of Administrative Services- not because I have any grudge against that Department but because I felt that this was a departure from the principle that we ought to be trying to support- that functions which concern people and areas ought to be integrated as nearly as possible into some co-operating force. 
In the city of Canberra we have an opportunity to create an administrative and executive operation which will be an example to the rest of 
Australia. We only have to look at the management of Melbourne and Sydney to see how difficult it is to get any sense out of the whole system. I think that that transfer was a backward step. I think that the dispersal of the Department of the Capital Territory will be a backward step. 
Some of the responsibilities will be dispersed to some other Minister who will not bother much about them because he will have 45 other things to do. I have several fears which I would like to express. One is that the financing provisions will be such that they will start to cause atrophy in this city. The citizens will have a much heavier burden to bear in order to keep up the standard of the Australian Capital Territory. I foresee the deadening hand of the Treasurer coming into it. On the other hand, I think that part time membership of the Legislative Assembly will mean that its members will not have enough time to apply themselves to the job. The Minister responsible will find the Legislative Assembly on the edge of his duties and therefore we will find that many things will flow back and the place will become just another bureaucratic enclave. 
The Minister having brought the matter here and having initiated discussion, the time has come for us to try to get the community to think a little more constructively about it. I hope that some of the thoughts expressed here and in the other place about the Australian Capital Territory can be put out in such a way that the citizens will start to think a little more constructively about this matter. If we are not careful we will end up in a situation of confrontation. Some people will be for it and others will be against it, and somebody will have to make a decision which, with the hindsight of history, probably will be the wrong decision. 
I want to address myself to this Bill too. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I want to mention briefly the way in which the House is being managed and the difficulties that we will get into if we take these steps of departing from the 10.30 p.m. adjournment and the 1 1 p.m. rule. I have been a member of this House for a long while, as has the Government Whip, although he has not been a member for quite as long as I have. I think that we should resist these departures from normal practice in the Parliament. This is the second time in a couple of weeks on which this has occurred. It will not be long before we will be back to the situation of sitting until 3 a.m., which caused great dissatisfaction amongst and great inconvenience to members of parliament. I hope there will be no repetition of this practice. 
It is always a pleasure to follow my friend, the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  as he has so many contributions to make. Now he has the magic formula- the vouchers- which will solve all the problems of education, except perhaps teaching the children who go to the schools. He said one thing- I think that we have gone a fair way towards achieving it- and that is that we should put power into the hands of ordinary people. That is what we have done, as one will see if one looks at the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Ministry and the Cabinet. They are very ordinary people. So at least we have achieved that. 
Let me take one or two of the points that the honourable member has made. I do not have time tonight to debate the general question of aid for government schools and non-government schools. People like the honourable member for Swan always overlook one fundamental point. Equality does not just mean equality of public expenditure on schools; it means equality of access to schools. I look for the day when, say, an average Australian family lands in Melbourne, having migrated from Queensland- nobody could blame them for that- and turns up at the door of the Melbourne Church of England Grammar School and are invited to come m. Of course, that is not what happens in any non-state school. Even the most open and accessible Catholic schools cannot and do not take all the people who knock at their doors. 
I represent the areas of Brunswick and Coburg in Melbourne, to which thousands of people have come from all over the world in the last 20-odd years. Over recent times when people have gone to one of the local non-government schools they have often been told: 'I am sorry but we are full.' When they have knocked on the doors of the Moreland primary school, the Coburg primary school or one of the high schools the principals have said: 'I am sorry, we are full, but still come in'. That is the fundamental difference. No matter how we tinker with the foundations of the financial side of the school system we will not solve that problem. The strongest objection I have to the continual pouring of money into non-government schools is that we are creating and continuing undemocratic access to the schools. It is true that there are 2,000 nongovernment schools in Australia and some 8,000 government schools. The big proportion of the non-government schools are Catholic schools. Many of them are more freely accessible than the others. My friend, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  would know that. Surely the arithmetic is simple enough. One has only to look at the cost of them and one has only to try to get one 's children enrolled. 
On occasions I have made telephone calls for people and have visited schools in order to enable children to be enrolled and I have been told that this is not possible. That is the fundamental principle to be looked at when we are talking about equality of education. In the area which I represent there are public schools which have been there for 100 years. The schools are neglected. There is no doubt about that. Very few of the 41 government schools or even of the 12 or 15 Catholic schools in my electorate are as well endowed as schools ought to be in a wealthy country such as this. So I am in sharp disagreement with some of the things the honourable member for Swan has said. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  outlined some of the weaknesses of this legislation. It puts forward a typical Liberal solution to a social problem. For the rich it will be easier. They will be able to face paying back the $100,000 loan and paying the interest on it. It will be more difficult for people who are generally less richly endowed. The legislation provides a commercial approach to the public question of educationone borrows money and pays interest and the Government accepts no direct responsibility. The history of the scheme is that back in 1969- there was another election coming up- it was introduced for the Australian Capital Territory and, I think, the Northern Territory. 
It says 1969 on the Act. I am not sure about anything that was produced by previous Liberal-Country Party governments. Really anything could have happened. I am fully aware of the political content of the debate at the time. That is what I think is the weakness of the scheme. But I think that there are some principles in it that are worth fostering. Firstly, it allows for initiative by the school boards. Secondly, it gives government guarantees for the initiative of non-government schools. Thirdly, it is tapping sources of funds that are not readily available in some other way. I might ask what has happened to the new federalism policy, because I do not see State governments mentioned in it anywhere. Let us look at some of these things. First of all let us look at the initiative of the schools themselves. One of the advantages that the non-government schools have over government schools is that they are able to take action on behalf of the schools themselves. It is one of the weaknesses of the Australian government school system that not enough power, authority and initiative lie with the school councils, committees or advisory councils. I am a member of several of these bodies. 
I think that in Victoria probably more progress is being made in allowing greater initiative for the state school authorities than in other States, but we still have a long way to go. For instance, high schools in my electorate have been battling for funds to have the schools rebuilt. The problem is complex. There are problems with the Public Works Department, the planning sections of the Victorian Government, the Victorian Government's budgeting and its priorities. The Moreland high school has a board and a committee and is as capable of running the school and handling the building and redevelopment as anybody else. Up the road are non-government schools. I think that all the non-government schools in my electorate are Catholic schools. They can do the planning themselves, they borrow the money themselves and they can get on with the job. If we had the apparatus for guaranteeing government schools and funding them in some way, such as is implicit in this piece of legislation, we could make a substantial contribution to Australian educational development. 
I believe that we have to find some way of tapping the extraordinarily large financial resources in this country. I think that there is something like $14,000m or $15,000m in savings bank funds and about the same in trading bank funds. Of course, a large proportion of that money is continually committed but there is no doubt that it could be made available. We have to find some means by which it can be made readily available to public utilities. So, critical as Opposition members are of some of the principles behind this legislation, I suggest that it contains the germs of further development of public funding for this system. For most of the schools for which I am concerned, and I think for all schools, we would have to find some method of funding the interest payments and capital repayments. If our problem is at any time the finding of financial resources to get on with the job without doing something dreadful to the arithmetic of the BudgetI suppose that that is a kind of fantasy- this is a way of tapping those resources. We still have not found a satisfactory method of tapping the financial resources of the country for public utilities. 
Generally speaking, we have enough resources at our disposal through general revenue for the running expenses of the country. I recall that in the 1975 Budget the total expenditure was about $22,000m. The actual running expenses of Australia, for the day to day running of such things as the defence system, payments for education and pensions, was about $ 17,000m. Our revenue was about $ 19,000m. So on any balanced view of finance we had $2,000m operating surplus. Of course, we were committed to about $5,000m or $6,000m for capital works, of which schools are an important part. We have not found a satisfactory way of doing that without getting into all sorts of hand-wringing exercises over what is technically called a deficit but which I think is a misuse of the word 'deficit'. In this way some of those problems could be overcome. 
I know his views but he has been here for a long while, as I have. He also has had to deal with the operations of government utilities. On one occasion I visited the electorate of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and did it a lot of good. The honourable member might in his visits to Canberra look at institutions which were funded in this way. Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Ltd and the Canberra Commercial Development Authority are both public utilities. Both are publicly owned. Both have borrowed money through the systemI think in both cases from the Commonwealth Bank under Commonwealth Government guarantee. This did not appear in the Budget anywhere. It did not cost the country anything. I think there is some government funding in each of them but it is minimal. I suggest that the honourable member go out and look at the Belconnen Mall and the immense work being performed there by a publicly established authority borrowing funds under government guarantee. This means that sources of revenue not available to the Government under ordinary circumstances, unless it does something different from the way we have been proceeding, are tapped for public utilities. I presume this happens elsewhere. Throughout the system public utilities, State electricity commissions and so on, go to the market to borrow money. 
The other point about this legislation which in my view has some merit is that the Commonwealth is prepared to deal directly with the institutions involved. I have looked carefully through this legislation. Although a school has to be recognised as a school by the State education Minister, that Minister does not intervene in any way. The new federalism seems to be gone. There is no schedule at the back of this legislationno apology to the State ministers that the dealing is to be done directly with people who are operating under State education legislation. We nave the effrontery to deal directly with them! But if that were suggested with some other institutions, such as those which the great majority of young Australians attend, we would be in breach of that sacred document, the Constitution. 
I commend the legislation to the House. I can see no reason for operations of this nature not being publicly explained to the House and documented before it continually. I remind the Parliament that whilst this legislation contains germs of useful operations, including the initiative that the schools can deal directly with the institutions, the tapping of funds which are not normally available and all the rest, it also contains grave difficulties, such as heavy interest burdens, repayments and so on. 
My friend the honourable member for Lilley in one of his waking moments a while ago- he has a lot of waking moments, not that he uses them very usefully- asked why the States do not do something. It is interesting to note that Victoria, for instance, has a very big State bank with very large funds and that New South Wales has a large bank- the Rural Bank- both of which could be in this business too. I think the Parliament ought to start to attend to some of these matters. We could put an enormous number of people to work if we were prepared to give guarantees and some sort of interest support, say, to municipalities. 
Critical though we are of this legislation and though we see it as weak in some respects- it makes more things available to the rich than to the poor- it does contain germs of ideas. If the Minister conscientiously studies the speeches which have been made on this matter by members on this side of the House we shall all make progress. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Progress reported. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
-Yes. It is the honourable member's singular good fortune. We have come to the annual flurry in futility, the consideration of the Estimates, after they have been signed, sealed and delivered and there is no possibility of changing the last full stop in the document. I wonder whether we will ever reach the stage when honourable members will be given the opportunity to participate in the Estimates from the beginning. There must be hundreds of public servants of relatively lowly rank in this city who have had an input into this document which is denied to the people who are answerable for it. I suggest that at some stage we should get around to having a real examination by the Committee of Inquiry into the Parliamentary Committee System. Here we are tonight talking about history and not making any of it. Decisions are already made. We are allowed one and a half hours in which to consider the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Adminstrative Servicesa proper Irish stew of adminstrative systems if ever there was one. 
-I propose to mention just a few things contained in the estimates. My friend, the honourable member for Swan, is an avid attender in this House. I take it that he is a refugee from his constituents and that it is not safe for him to go outside. The estimates cover the Governor-General's Office. It is time that the Parliament considered the matter of the Executive Council. During the golden days when the Australian Labor Party was conducting the affairs of this country I gave some consideration to the question of the Executive Council because it fulfils a very important function. I was not happy with the system. That is not a reflection upon anybody in it or upon the people who participate in it. Two Ministers would go out to the Governor-General's mansion and consider the matters, with proper decorum and proper dedication. They would then come away. Other Ministers might well not know what had happened. 
-That is not quite the case. Everybody knows what happened then. The honourable member for Denison should listen for a moment because by some aberration he might eventually end up a Minister, although it is unlikely because he will not be here long enough. I asked whether I could have a copy of the minutes of one of the meetings which had been held and which I did not attend. I was told that I could not have them. I did not have time to argue about it because there were other things to do. 
-This is an important matter I am putting before the Committee. I am one of those who participated in this. I asked whether I could have a copy of the rules of Executive Council. I was told that there were only two. I asked what they were and was told that with the Governor-General present two people constituted a quorum and with the Governor-General absent three were required and the GovernorGeneral would sign the papers later. I asked when those rules were made and was advised that they were made at the first meeting of Executive Council in 1901. As far as I can tell, no one has got around to considering the matter since then. I merely place that on the record because I want to refer to other matters also. 
The Government ought to have proceeded with permitting the National Gallery to purchase  Grand Nu  and items such as that. I do not want to take up the time of the Committee; I just want to place that on the record. I think the Minister at the table, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley),  had an attitude on that matter. I do not claim to be an expert but Australia must develop an effective collection of modern art. I raise this matter merely to indicate the difficulties we face. 
Another matter to which I refer is the Northwest One Stop Welfare Centre in my electorate. I am glad that the Government has seen fit to continue to fund this Centre. I hope it will continue to do so. It is an operation in which the Commonwealth Government, the State Government and the municipal council are involved. I want to raise the matter of the funding of some of the Government's most important instrumentalities. I have time only to mention them. For instance, the National Library, which falls within the responsibility of the Department of Administrative Services, last year received an allocation of $ 12.76m and this year will receive an allocation of $ 13.1m, a rise of 3 per cent at a time when inflation is running at about 10 per cent. Ceilings are imposed upon the staff of the National Library, which make it impossible for the Library to operate effectively. It is one of the most important cultural institutions in the country. It is carrying out work associated with the collection and dissemination of material and making that material accessible with the aid of computer systems and so on. This work can be performed only by the Library staff. 
I refer now to the situation with respect to Norfolk Island. One of the administrative aberrations of which this Government has been guilty was to shift the administration of Norfolk Island from the Department of the Capital Territory. I thought we were in error in continuing the administration of Cocos Island and Christmas Island under the Department of Services and Property, as I think it was called, or the Special Minister of State. As I see it Norfolk Island, Cocos Island and Christmas Island are exercises in government. The Australian Government has only two departments of government, namely, the Department of the Northern Territory and the Department of the Capital Territory. They directly govern people; they have that expertise. None of the other government departments do so in the same way. So Norfolk Island, Cocos Island and Christmas Island ought to come within one of those portfolios, whichever is preferred. 
I want to raise with the Parliament the matter of the status of Norfolk Island. The Nimmo report, which was produced as a result of the appointment of  Sir John  Nimmo as a royal commissioner, laid down a whole pattern of recommendations. I am afraid that the people of Norfolk have been dealt with in a rather heavy handed way. 
I am not accustomed to agreement from honourable members opposite. The Norfolk Island community is a special community. It comprises about 1,700 regular inhabitants, of whom some 400 or 500 are direct descendants of the Pitcairn Islanders. There is a handful of very wealthy people who in many respects are able to carry the day when it comes to creating public opinion. The community lives on a knife's edge of insecurity as far as its economy is concerned. A simple change in our customs regulations could perhaps put them out of business. But Norfolk Island costs Australia hardly anything. We are spending $288,000 on the restoration of buildings in the national interest. We are doing this on our own account and not for the Norfolk Islanders. It is costing $126,000 for Norfolk Island, $502,000 for Cocos Island and $2.4m for Christmas Island. 
Somehow we have to find a formula by which the people of Norfolk Island can be integrated with but not assimilated into the Australian system. They are quite neurotic about the tax system. In fact, most of the Norfolk Islanders would be better off if they were brought under our tax system and had available to them the general services available to the Australian community. I do not think the situation has changed dramatically in the past 12 months but I know that they used to maintain their school and their hospital and were responsible for all capital works. 
If the honourable member for Swan wants to see a properly independent school he should look at the Norfolk Island public school because I think it is the only one in the system which makes no demand on the Australian electorate. In fact, that school is totally independent. As far as I know it receives no funds from the Government. It might have done so in the past 12 months but certainly before then it received no funds from the Australian taxation system. Of course, unless the Norfolk Islanders have some special relationship with us they do not receive social security benefits. When the children reach fourth form and can go no further at that school most of them do not qualify for funds made available to isolated children. 
I hope that we will start to treat these people with special respect and that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  will make himself appear to be a little more sympathetic, although I realise that he does not seem to have sympathetic nerve. 
I had not noticed that he had a heart at all but something must make him tick. 
Another thing to which he might give some consideration is the total inadequacy of services made available to Federal members. I merely place these matters on record, to fulfil my duty to members and to other people around the place. I hope that honourable members will start to apply themselves to this matter when dealing with the Estimates and will find some machinery by which we can have some input at the beginning of the system rather than when it is signed, sealed and delivered. 
I address a question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Why does the Government surrender so meekly to requests from the medical profession for an increase in its fees and fight so viciously against decent wage justice for people working in industries such as the electricity industry in Victoria? 
-The House has rarely heard a greater farrago of humbug from any honourable member than it heard from the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  this night. He stood here in this House tonight - 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) put: 
That the question be now put. 
I want to remind the House that it is time that it took a closer look at the issues surrounding the industrial disputes which are current in both Victoria and Queensland. I point out to the Househonourable members are capable of doing the arithmetic- that the influence of wages in cost structures is rather over-rated and the need for the Australian work force to obtain a fair return for its work is under-rated. No cognisance is taken of the fact that a great deal of the living standards of people in the work force is being reduced as a direct result of the policies of this Government. 
I shall refer to the two issues that are current. At the present moment a dispute exists in the State Electricity Commission in Victoria. I have no doubt that many honourable members in the House noted the discussions which took place the other evening on the television program  This Day Tonight  between members of the trade union movement and the Minister in Victoria. I do not think anybody in this House would not say that the behaviour of the Minister in that public forum was outrageous and irresponsible. It is incredible that a man who was supposed to be solving a situation such as that could behave in that manner in public One could see that he was totally intransigent about it. That is one of the issues, of course. If the parties involved will not sit down at the table and talk they will not get anywhere. 
I have here the annual report for last year of the State Electricity Commission. I find it a little hard to interpret exactly the financial situation, but I assume that the section which refers to operations and maintenance as costing $112m would have included the wages and salaries costs of the Commission. It is interesting to note that that figure represents less than 30 per cent of the total cost incurred in running the Commission. For instance, interest paid that year amounted to $75m and depreciation amounted to $S0m. Other factors are involved also. So I think it is time that the House turned its attention to the fact that in many of these operations the costs of wages and salaries are not as significant in terms of total expenditure as we make out. Therefore, regardless of what one feels about the issues in Victoria, the $3m which I suppose it would cost to meet what are probably the over-inflated claims at the present time of the SEC maintenance men would represent a very small proportion of the total cost of running the Commission. It may well be that the case they have made is justified, namely, that people in private industry being paid more than they are is an act of injustice. I believe it is and it is a situation which ought to be overcome. 
But the other situation which is more dramatic, I believe, is that pertaining to the Utah coal mining company. As I read the balance sheet of that company, it made in the last financial year a profit before tax of $240m. 
Just listen to my fellow worker, the honourable member for Capricornia. Since Utah employs 3,000 or fewer employees, it means that each employee made for the company a profit of $80,000. That company has the hide to chisel people out of their tea money. It argues that it cannot afford to pay the people who work on its ships at Australian award rates. I am sympathetic to my temporary friend from Capricornia- he is not temporarily my friend, he is temporarily the honourable member for Capricornia- who has battled to get a better price for his cattle. I support him in that because I think he is entitled to a decent standard of living, even if he does not earn it. 
The facts are that some of these huge companies are making enormous profits and that their wages bill is minute compared with their profits and the costs of other operations. I think that is flying in the face of the facts of life and of the social needs of the community. Why should the trade union movement of Australia be expected to put up with that? Both of those employing authorities to which I have referred in Queensland and Victoria are irresponsible; the arbitration authorities are too slow; the general structure of society is being weakened by the work force being made to take less than its fair share of the nation's wealth. 
-Like previous speakers in this debate, I can only regret that we have 10 minutes in which to deal with three departments which cover a whole range of human needs. I suppose that this is almost a universal debate in a sense. Medibank, repatriation, which is now termed veterans' affairs, and the social security system are matters with which everyone is involved. The time has come to bring the whole social security system into parity and equity. That will be a complicated and difficult task. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  mentioned some of the problems associated with taxation. We have to decide what we mean by family support systems. It is time we had an adequate family support system. It is time we gave more thought to a minimum income system and the way we should go about implementing it. These suggestions have been in the pipeline for many years. It is time the Parliament itself applied its wisdom to them. 
I take issue with those people who have been busy congratulating their Ministers. The Ministers' record over the last 18 months or so is a sorry one indeed. We have seen the dismantling of the Australian Assistance Plan, for instance, and the confusion over the national health service. Who would say in public that the present Medibank is a better system than the one that was operating when this Government came to office? We have seen the freezing of pre-school funds and the illegality of some decisions in relation to unemployment benefit. What are Ministers in this Government to be congratulated about? 
I want to refer to what is now called veterans' affairs. Whoever thought of that name? As far as I can tell, it is something picked up from Washington by the kind of people who always want to change things in some odd and corny way. 'Repatriation' was and is a part of the language. I notice that the Government still refers to 'repatriation institutions'. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  obviously supports the idea. I can see that he is the sort of person who would change Yarralumla to Lake View and who would call Kirribilli, Buena Vista. It is just another piece of governmental and administrative nonsense, confusing the people who are now the object of what one might call the community's and the Government's fading vision. It is 30 years since the Second World War. It is 60 years since the First World War. No one can blame the rising generation for forgetting what they were all about. I take this opportunity to place on record the necessity to maintain a consistent policy of adequate service to former servicemen. 
When people put on the uniform to serve the country, no matter whether their service is of a high order or is ordinary, they have accepted a responsibility and the possibility of a sacrifice that no other form of employment involves. Therefore, there must be no interference with the general principles upon which health services, general care, and levels of pensions and benefits for dependants and housing system have been developed over 60 years. My friend the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  mentioned the decision-making process. It is almost impossible, particularly for people who served in the First World War, to prove that a disability was war caused. I have never been able to work out how people in the First World War survived in the trenches at all. There should never have been any argument. The statistics show that, over the years between the wars and until 1950 or perhaps later, the First World War returned servicemen received less consideration than those of us who served in the Second World War. Statistics on the numbers who served, wounds and other casualties and deaths in action in the two world wars- Vietnam exemplifies this even further-related to the actual pensions paid will show that the people who served in the First World War had a very hard row to hoe. 
My own view, which I have held for a long while, is that particularly people who served in the First World War but anybody who went through active combatant service ought to have whatever disease from which they suffer accepted as being war caused. How do they prove that? We have asked this question so often. What research have we done? Let us take people who were in infantry battalions in 1945. 1 served in a unit through which some 4,000 men passed in the six years of the Second World War. They served all over the world in very rigorous circumstances. Many of them were casualties, both from disease and from wounds. In 1943, 1944 and 1945 they were the fittest people in the business anywhere, as were probably most people who were considered Al in the Services. I speak now of infantry men and associated branches of the Services, the people I know something about. They were the fittest people in the country. They were probably as fit as anybody on this planet. It is reasonable to assume that they still ought to be the fittest people in their age group 30 years later. If they are not, it is almost surely the result of their service. I am convinced that they are not the fittest people in their age group any more. But what research have we done on it? 
We should have taken groups of these people and, as far as we could, examined their actual medical condition when they were serving and their medical condition now. If it did not do anything in the way of providing benefits at least it might supply some information about the rigours of war service and its impact upon human beings. So I appeal to the Parliament to maintain constant vigilance in this place. The servicemen will constantly be chiselled out of their benefits if we are not careful. I know that the war service homes system is under continual assault. Those people who consider it now too late to be giving any sorts of benefits are always trying to put up the interest rates. We must resist that. The benefit was earned for all sorts of reasons. It was not a payment by way of reward. It was a benefit given as a result of service. 
I want to pay some attention to another area that was raised by my friend the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitiam).  I refer to the question of the pre-schools system in Victoria. In my electorate advice has just been received that funds for the Moreland pre-school, which was guaranteed support last year by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  upon whom so much praise has been heaped here this afternoon, have now been frozen. The Victorian Government has written to the Coburg City Council and has told it not to proceed any further until clarification is received from Canberraas if it is ever likely to be received. As I understand it, there was an agreement made some time last year between the Assistant Minister of Health in Victoria,  Mr Jona,  and the Minister for Social Security on this basis. Some 11 projects in Victoria are frozen at the moment. In the Moreland case they were given to understand on 27 October last year that they would receive $90,000 and that they would receive $20,000 this year. They are not receiving the $90,000, they are not receiving the $20,000 and the whole system has been brought into disarray. Strangely enough, most of these projects seem to be in Labor areas. 
I put in a special appeal on behalf of the people in the Moreland area. It is a migrant area, a low income area, a place where there are single parent families. I believe that this represents a reach of trust. Surely to goodness we can develop a governmental system which proceeds along a path which has already been guaranteed and promised. We all seem to be victims of the stop and go system which is inflicting on the Australian Government whole areas of insecurity. I appeal to the Minister for Health who is at the table to raise this matter on my behalf and on behalf of my constituents with the Minister concerned. There is not an enormous sum involved. I do not think that very large sums are involved at all in Victoria. 
There are lots of other matters which I would like to raise at this time. This year I was the beneficiary of the health services in Canberra. I can only say that they are first class as indeed also are the repatriation hospital services, of which I have been a beneficiary. I can never understand how anybody can oppose the establishment of a national health service which supplies the same quality of service at the same price and under the same administrative system to every Australian, as we have been providing for the best part of 60 years to most of the people in the repatriation system. Anybody in this country is happy to front up for repatriation health services, to use salaried services from doctors and all the rest of it without complaint I do not know why there should be any argument about supplying it to everybody in the community. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) proposed:  That the question be now put. 
That the question be now put. 
I want a division or at least to have my dissent recorded. If there is one subject we can debate in this House which is more important than this I will be surprised. 

<graphic href="107131197710110_43_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710110_44_1_2_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710110_44_1_4_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710110_44_1_3_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) proposed:  That the question be now put 
That the question be now put 
I do not want to call for a division but may I have my dissent recorded in accordance with the appropriate Standing Order? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker- 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed:  That the question be now put.  Mr Bryant-  May I have my dissent recorded? Question resolved in the affirmative. Original question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a third time. 
That the question be now put.  Mr Bryant-  May I have my dissent recorded? Question resolved in the affirmative. Original question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a third time. 
I want to take a few minutes to talk about what is now called the National Aboriginal Conference and to remind the Parliament of the original concept behind the establishment of this body which in the initial stages was called the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. Until 1972 when the Australian Labor Party became the Government very little had been done over the years to advance the cause of the Aboriginal people. One or two previous Ministers, such as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  had made an impact but that was the first time that the Australian Parliament and the Australian Government had established a Department of Aboriginal Affairs with a Minister for Aboriginal Affairs responsible for that subject alone. As the Minister at that time I realised that one of the greatest difficulties one faced in arriving at proper policies and appropriate procedures in Aboriginal affairs was the difficulty of consultation with and consideration of the views of the Aboriginal people. 
After some consideration I decided that the best thing to do was to convene a conference of Aboriginal people representative, as far as I could make it so, of all sections of the Aboriginal community- people from the Northern Territory tribal situations, people from the urban situation and prominent Aboriginal people. Honourable members may be interested to learn how one goes about such a task. There are some 400 communities in Australia in which Aboriginal people are to be found. Some of them comprise three or four families; in others, such as at Maningrida, Papunya and Yuendumu and so on in the Northern Territory, there are upwards of a thousand Aboriginal people or more living in communities of their own. We took first of all the advisory committee that the previous Minister had established, then prominent Aboriginal people such as the late Harold Blair, Pastor  Sir Douglas  Nicholls and so on, members of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, and other people who represented their communities. Some 70 people gathered here in Canberra to consider the problems. I want to make it clear that the idea was that this was to be the unit which was to be the direct line of communication between the Minister and the Aboriginal communities. 
Over the last three or four years, but particularly since the first election was held for membership of what is now called the National Aboriginal Conference in late 1973, 1 have heard it said that the National Aboriginal Conference, or national congress, whatever name it was called for the time being, has been a failure. If it has been a failure that failure should not be visited upon the Aboriginal members themselves. They had extraordinary difficulties to cope with. They were new to this kind of task. It was the duty of the responsible Ministers to establish a communication system- a continual communication system- with the Aboriginal people. The representative principle is difficult to establish in such a situation. In the end there was simply a division of Australia into 41 electorates and members were elected to represent those electorates. This was not a totally satisfactory technique because, for example, people in central Australia who live in communities 500 miles apart could not possibly adequately represent one another but it was the best thing to do in the circumstances. I do not believe that the amendments that have been made to the idea are going to work any better. In fact I think there are inhibitions in the system. There are impositions, such as the executive group which will be a part of it, which will, I think defeat its purpose. 
I want to say a word in support of the general principle of direct representation by the Aboriginal people in the consideration of their own policies. I do not believe this idea has been a failure. I do not believe its members have failed. They have acted in the same way as we do. Each one of us has different techniques in our approach to the business of being representatives of people. Some people are more successful than others in public appearances but that is part of the system. 
I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  will take this concept to himself, that he will make sure that he establishes direct communications with the Aboriginal members who are spokesmen for their communities. I  hope  he will no longer talk about the National Aboriginal Conference, as it is now called, being a failure. It is our duty at this end to establish an effective communications system. 
Nothing has been more of a whipping boy than the Aboriginal programs of the last four or five years. It has been so easy to say that money has been wasted, that programs have been at fault, that it has all been a total waste of time. It has not. The fact that there are so many Aboriginal people now able to speak in public, to act in the public domain as self-assured citizens, is a measure of the success of the campaigns of the last ten or  fifteen  years to advance the cause of the Aboriginal people. 
I come now to the procedures and policies adopted by this Government immediately on its return to office. It had attacked very vigorously the programs and the expenditure of the Labor Government. The first approach was to reduce that expenditure. I believe that that was a serious error. It was an abdication of the responsibility to the people of Australia and to the Aboriginal people in particular. I cannot quite understand why there seems to be so much underexpenditure in the Budget that I see before me as apparent from the figures I see in Appropriation Bill (No. 2). Perhaps even in housing inadequate effort has been made. I put it to the Minister that he should not let himself be deterred in any way by these criticisms. Many of them will flow from people whose approach, unfortunately, is racist. I am not going to suggest that the people of Australia are racist in the sense that I think that the people in southern Africa are, but I do know that Australians place a heavy premium upon behaviour. People who do not behave according to the norms are likely to come under heavy fire. 
Aboriginal people who for two centuries have been deprived of a proper place on this continent as a result of our arrival here ought to have special consideration showered upon their needs. I must express my bitter disappointment at the collapse of so many programs around Australia over the past year or so. As a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs I see so many programs which have been launched come to a relative standstill. One does not have time here tonight to discuss them. In so many ways the programs have come to a point of stagnation and have caused disappointment and frustration to the Aboriginal people. 
Last night an honourable member mentioned the matter of the turtles in the Tones Strait. One has almost continually to get the record straight. Back two or three years before we came into government- about 1970- when the honourable member for Mackellar was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, a proposal was put to him to develop a turtle growing program in the Torres Strait. A small amount of money- I think $30,000- was put aside in the first instance to do that. It was to be an experimental exercise. Unfortunately, the person who became in charge of the program, operating through the Australian National University, saw an opportunity to expand the enterprise beyond his capacity to control it. By the time we came into government $400,000 or more had been committed. I think about $200,000 was allocated in the previous Budget and was transferred about the time we came into Government. 
I visited the Torres Strait. I could see immediately that the project was not going to work. I do not have time tonight to expound the arithmetic on it, but honourable members only have to read the records I tabled before the Joint Committee on Public Accounts to find out how misled we all were. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs was misled in its predictions and prophecies. The governments were misled in applying to the task so much funds so generously, one might say. So when I see in the Budget Papers an amount of $ 1.05m allocated for ecology, I wonder whether the Minister has really applied himself to the task of seeing whether we are going to get value for that money. I recognise the difficulties in the Torres Strait of maintaining economy. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, there are a few- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I wish to have my dissent recorded under Standing Order 193. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)That  dissent will be recorded. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $30,565,000. 
Progress reported. 
-This evening I have made a number of attempts to address the Parliament. One attempt in particular was on the subject of housing but of course I was unable to do that. We ran out of time. Why did we run out of time? Because today a handful of members of this Parliament chose to have a party in the dining room- 
-We are about to discuss the most destructive period in Canberra's recent history. One of the first acts of this Government upon its return to office was to put up the price of land. The Minister for the Capital Territory at the time- fortunately he was there only temporarily-was asked why he did that. He said: 'We needed the money'. In Canberra, where the Government has absolute control over the land situation- the land is owned by the nation, developed by a government corporation and sold through government operations; the whole operation is government controlled- it is using the land as both a piece of government speculation and a piece of government exploitation of the citizen. Land is fundamental to housing and society generally, and for a government to behave in this way is irresponsible in the extreme and anti-social. But that is only just part of it. In the last 18 months there has been a collapse of the construction industry in Canberra and a collapse of the development of Canberra, with all the results that one could expect from that in a city such as Canberra. 
I will tell the House about the brickworks. When it has a spare brick we will give you a new head. When one destroys construction operations in Canberra, one destroys a great deal of the whole social progress of this city . We have embarked upon a program of stagnation in the national capital. It has meant the collapse of business confidence and has created unemployment. 
I want to deal expressly with two matters- the housing situation in Canberra and what it means as evidence of what can be done in housing, and the government of Canberra. Firstly, I shall deal with the housing situation. I was unable to speak on housing matters yesterday during consideration of the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I want to raise the general question of where the Government fits into housing programs. I object to the term 'welfare housing'. Why do we include the word 'welfare'? Why do we not just talk about housing? We are not in the business of running corporations for the deserving poor. There is a lot to be said for governments conducting their housing operations on what might be called a commercial basis. I want to place before the House the idea that by examining the housing situation in Canberra we could see in what way we could improve the whole housing situation in Australia. 
First of all, I want to attack the philosophy of the market place in relation to rents on housing. We do not agree with attaching the market place philosophy to any other commodity. If Broken Hill Pry Co. Ltd manages to rig the market so that it is able to put up the price of its products when a scarcity occurs, we turn the Prices Justification Tribunal on it. If the petrol companies engage in that sort of activity, we turn on them also. If the breweries do it there is a howl of wrath and vengeance through the whole community. But in relation to a fundamental social requirement we let the market place rule. We would not allow that to occur in relation to any other commodity. Because rents were forced up in Canberra as a result of a scarcity of housing and rental housing, the philosophy is that we have to put up the rents on government housing to that same level. I regard that as immoral; it is against the general principles of commercial practice in any field that one might care to examine. 
Canberra has or had approximately 11,000 rental housing units, I think. Over the SO or 60 years that those units have been constructed an investment of perhaps $ 120m has been involved. The figure may be a bit larger, but it is a little hard to determine. Almost all of that money has come out of Consolidated Revenue. It represents a capital investment. It is an equity investment by the people of Australia in housing in Canberra. I suppose the capital value of those units would now be approximately $3 50m. So it represents an enormous capital asset; there is an enormous investment involved and there is an opportunity provided. 
What have we been doing over the last 18 months or so? We have been pursuing the market place philosophy. Rental receipts have increased from $11,088,000 in 1975-76 to $15,594,607 in 1976-77-that was last year. The estimated receipts this year are $21m. What does that mean? I am glad to see the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  in the chamber. In spite of his charm, the people of Canberra are paying a high price for his presence in the Parliament, because he is part of the voting system, as is the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown). 
-The system of exploitation of the people of Canberra. That is apparent and implicit in everything that you can read in the estimates. This year the return on rental housing will be $21m. What does it actually cost to run the system? The figures are shown in terms of the actual cost of maintenance, but they seem to me to be very low. Some of the figures must be concealed somewhere in the system. The figure for last year was $l.lm, and the estimate for this year is $1.3m. But when administrative costs and so on are allowed for, the system, to my memory, costs somewhere between $3m and $4m. Perhaps we could get more accurate figures from somewhere; the cost may even be more than that. But a lot more painting than I think they are doing would have to be done before the cost could get around to being more than that. The actual profit then is upwards of between $15m and $ 1 7m on a capital investment of approximately $120m, let us say, and a total capital appreciated value of perhaps $300m. 
One might argue about what is a reasonable return. I believe that governments are not in the business of making extraordinary profits. They might make a value judgment at some stage and determine that the profit ought to be at a certain level and that it should be achieved in a certain way. But this situation is extraordinary. We would not tolerate anybody else in the community receiving that kind of return. Of course, the argument put forward will be that interest will be paid on the money at 9.25 per cent. One report states that the notional interest was raised to 9V4 per cent. Most of this investment over the 50 years or more since it began has come from Consolidated Revenue. It is equity investment by the people of Australia in the system. 
Apart from my criticism of this operation, what I am suggesting is that this demonstrates that housing ought to be a commercial operation conducted like any other business, levelling out at a very minimal profit. Instead we have inflicted upon housing all sorts of nonsense like economic rents. What on earth is an economic rent? It is said to be 20 per cent of a person's salary. What on earth has a person's salary got to do with the rent he should pay, unless he is on a low salary, in which case everyone would support the relationship between salary and rent. When buying anything else we do not pay according to our salary. What on earth has the market place got to do with the decision? We do not let it influence other charges. 
What I am arguing for is a more rational approach to housing. As far as I can determine, there is no housing policy or philosophy in this country in the sense that the Government has set out to say: 'We will supply this kind of housing on these kinds of terms for these sorts of reasons; this is what it costs and this is what you will pay'. It is all beset with some sort of mystical nonsense about other matters. Unfortunately I do not have time to place much else before the Committee. 
I admit that one thing at a time is about as much as the honourable member for Griffith can handle. I mention the government of Canberra. I am a fraid that the Legislative Assembly has not done as much legislating as it should have done. I do not think it has accepted its responsibility on the administrative side- on the Australian Capital Territory Schools Commission, the Capital Territory Health Commission and other authorities. I believe the opportunity exists for the unique development of a regional governmental system closely related to the national government. 
It is very reprehensible that the elections for the Legislative Assembly should have been deferred. There is no excuse whatever for it. Of course, the specious excuse advanced is that the role of the Assembly has not yet been determined, and that therefore the Government wants to keep in the Assembly experienced people to work out the situation- as if anybody will take any notice of them anyhow. One of the great features of this Government is that it does not take any notice of elected advisory bodies such as the Aboriginal Conference, as it is now called, and the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, both of which are basically ignored by Ministers. I think I ought to make almost a demand in the name of democracy and common decency that the elections for the Legislative Assembly should proceed. I ask members of this Parliament to apply themselves thoroughly to the question of housing finance and rental housing by examining the situation in Canberra. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order i  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I think the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  needs to raise his sights, change his targets and rearrange his priorities. Apparently he takes his priorities from figures. That will not work. My colleague from Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  who is a good interjector but who does not offer much in the form of creative thought in these matters, had the brass to say that State schools in Australia have money running out of their ears. I think it is time he visited some of them. It is time he visited Melbourne. I will give him a tour of my electorate. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
What sum in Federal funds was allocated to the Victorian municipalities of (a) Broadmeadows, (b) Coburg, and (c) Brunswick in each year since 1 970. 
-I do not agree with what one might term the inferences behind the remarks of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr).  I should like to express my regret at the interruptions to my friend the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  during his participation in this debate. The honourable member for Swan mentioned that we were rich beyond dreams. No one would ever believe that if they looked at budgetary situations and the way in which we are chiselling every deprived person in this country out of his just entitlements. I do not think it is valid to argue percentages in 1966 as compared with percentages in 1976. It is now a different country and a different economic environment. We are not necessarily getting better value simply because the percentage has gone up or down. We have to look at the reality on the ground. 
I should like to remind honourable members of the Labor Party's record on defence during its three years in office. It is part of the furphyism in the community arising out of the continual denigration of Labor's efforts by honourable members opposite to say that we neglected defence. The facts are that we had to finalise the reequipment of the Air Force with the FI 1 1. That was a difficult decision in view of various attitudes as to whether it was the best and most relevant aircraft. Many millions of dollars had been spent on defence and we finalised that re-equipment. 
-I am not certain about that. 
The Minister for Construction may speak later rather than interject now. He is the Minister for interjections. The point is that we continued with the purchase of the Fill. We began the program of re-equipping the armed services with the leopard tank. I think we also went into the business of setting up the new destroyer program. We set out on a re-organisation of the defence system; something that was years overdue. It was a difficult matter to carry through and I pay a tribute to the defence services because they behaved much more creditably than did their colleagues in Canada on this matter. We also gave security to the Services personnel. The Minister can try to interject and talk as loudly as he likes. I am accustomed to people shouting at me. The honourable member for Swan talked about my notable ex-military record. I think it is a very ex-military record, but I have halted a thousand men on parade with the band playing, so the Minister is not going to talk me down. 
What is the Government's record in this instance? As a matter of fact the Government has made a continual political gimmick out of a national inferiority complex. Every election up until the last five or six years has been fought on Australia's incapacity to defend itself- on the hordes swirling down from the north while we are helpless. So we neglect all the elements of self-sufficiency in this country. I am one of those who hold the view that Australia can defend itself. It would take an extraordinary effort on the part of anybody, even the Americans or the Russians, to launch a successful attack upon this country. I am discounting the long range nuclear missile attacks because that is a different environment. I suppose if the chips were down and we had seven, eight or 10 years' notice of this sort of thing, as the honourable member for Swan mentioned, we could produce the missiles ourselves. But our manpower is not inconsiderable. We still talk about ourselves as if we were a tiny country, as if our population were equivalent to that of Israel or New Zealand. Fourteen million people is not an inconsiderable number. It gives us a mobilisation capacity, I should think, of somewhere between 1.5 million and two million people. We are one of the largest industrial countries-twelfth or fourteenth. Despite what has been done to national morale because of the national divisions created in politics in recent years by my friends opposite, Australia's national morale is basically high. We have a great administrative competence. We have an internal communications system which is very good. We have an infrastructure which involves airports and things like that and we have very great military experience. 
In the last five minutes available to me in this debate I want to mention two areas of neglect. One is in the defence industry and the other is in what I choose to call still the citizen forces. I shall take three examples. I pose the question: How self-sufficient ought Australia be in the defence industry? My own view is that we ought to be basically self-sufficient in all areas of need as far as the defence industry is concerned. We should neither trade in arms nor buy arms. That is simply a point of philosophy, I suppose, which might be regarded as Utopian in this troubled world. But I believe it is the sort of target we ought to set for ourselves. The fact is that over the last five or six years the electronics industry has almost been run out of business. We have come to the stage where very large areas of important manufacture are now extinct, so we buy it all in. We might be able to fly in a plane load of super-sophisticated equipment at some stage or other, but unless we maintain our manufacturing capacity and our design capacity we will not keep up the manpower necessary to maintain it, design it or refurbish it. In the present world context, in view of what I would call the eccentric, erratic and unreliable behaviour of America and the rest of the world as far as alliances are concerned, it is quite possible that we could well be on our own. So our electronics industry ought to be maintained not just for the purposes of employment in this country, which I regard as important, but because of its vital nature with regard to defence. I do not think we ought to under-rate the exceptional skills of the Australian scientists employed in this field. 
There is also the question of shipbuilding. There has been a continuing argument that if we build ships here they could cost, say, $50m whereas we could buy those ships from Japan for only $30m. Nobody has done any effective homework on what it would actually mean it we spent the money at home. I have some figures which I have extracted from an Industries Assistance Commission report which set out exactly how much of the money that is spent internally generates other activity. However, there is not enough time in this debate to expand on that point. But I believe it is essential that we maintain at least one major commercial shipyard and possibly two. 
The Government is making a very poor fist of it. If that is the belief of the Minister for Construction then Lord help us. The Minister wants to go and visit the shipyards and study the projects. 
I have visited every shipyard in Australia. I have walked up and down ships that were being manufactured. I have talked to unions. I have been doing so for the last 12 months. 
Let me turn to the aircraft industry. We managed to sustain the industry over the years. Of course the Nomad program gave it another fillip but it, needs to be supported substantially by some major development of some sort. I recognise the difficulties. If we are to build up a tactical fighter force, can we, starting from scratch, design the aircraft and do all the other things necessary to build them? This brings us back to the point that my friend the honourable member for Oxley was making- the extraordinary economic cost involved in these matters. 
I wish to raise for the umpteenth time since I entered this Parliament the question of the citizen forces, now called the reserve forces. I think the word 'citizen' better suits the kind of context in which Australians have normally operated. We are in a new environment. We now have a highly skilled community in which enormous talents are lying around unused in the spare time of the young men and the young women of Australia. The education level is higher than when I was launched into the scene 40 years ago. That provides a resource which is not tapped. What we have to ask is: How much of our defence is actually military? For instance, how much of what the Royal Australian Air Force does is different from what Qantas Airways Limited, Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia do? How much of their workshops and air control systems are different? How much of the resources that are available in the non-military services could be made available in that area? I was a little alarmed to see that the strength of the Reserve Forces had declined to such a low level. We have to find a totally new way to induce people to serve in those forces. It is not good enough for Saturday afternoons - 
I will do so in my next 10 minute period if you stop interjecting. 
I wish to continue the discussion on the Reserve Forces which was referred to by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  I should like to raise some further points. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)The  question is, that the question be now put. All those of that opinion say aye, of the contrary no. 
No. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I think the ayes have it. 
May I have my dissent recorded under the appropriate standing Order? 
Government supporters talk about defence and then they gag the debate. This debate has been going for only 40 or 50 minutes. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Wills is the only member calling for a division and he may have his dissent recorded. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
-The question before the House is not so much whether the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  should be heard - 
That the question be now put. 
-Or whether this is the private Parliament of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
That the question be now put 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put- 
That the motion  (Mr Scholes's)  be agreed to. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Is it true that the profits of the Utah Development Co. for the quarter are $60m? Is it a fact that the company has 3,000 employees, giving a profit of $20,000 a quarter per employee? How does the Treasurer justify that kind of extravagant exploitation of the country and the people who work in it? How does he justify the continuing support of such profit making with his attack upon the real standard of living? 
-by leave-I want to remind the House of the importance of the report presented a few minutes ago. As my friend the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  has pointed out it is certainly the most comprehensive examination of the defence industry carried out in this country by a parliamentary committee and it is probably the most searching one that any committee associated with the defence industry has brought down. Today's report is of course about the electronics industry and the keynote of that is the continuing decline in the capacity of that industry to support Australian defence services right across the board. I think it is part of the intellectual challenge to the people of Australia that they recognise the need to support such an industry. As the honourable member for Isaacs has pointed out, we have no specific guidelines, one might say, as to what defence is about. Therefore we have to decide at this stage, until we have decided on other terms for a defence system, that we will aim at selfsufficiency in the defence industrial area. 
The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has worked very hard. Its members visited innumerable workshops, airfields and shipyards. They crawled through submarines, walked up and down ships under construction and so on. They talked to shipyard people. It has been a very thorough examination indeed and there is an immense body of information contained in the evidence placed before the Committee. We are confident that a lot of other factors are concerned with this industry apart from those concerned simply with defence because there is the intellectual spin-off from the work that is done by our defence scientists. We underrate the capacity of the Australian science industry, if we can call it that, to produce work up to the standards produced in the rest of the world and in fact in some areas work which surpasses those standards. I hope that all members of this House will make a careful study of this document because I think this is one of the prerequisites for their continued employment in this place and that the suggestions that the honourable member for Isaacs, who was the  chairman  of the subcommittee, has placed before the House will be pursued with tenacity in the new parliament so that whoever is the Minister for Defence, and, of course, it will be one of my colleagues after the elections, will at least know that there are people in this place who are concerned to ensure that the work of this Committee is carried through. 
I would like to thank those members of the Committee who worked with me. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Isaacs particularly in relation to the staff and also in relation to all those people who appeared before the Committee, many of whom were circumscribed by proscriptions imposed upon them by government departments and so on. In particular I would like to say thanks to the officers of the South Australian departments who for all sorts of reasons, some of them I presume flowing from the kind of government that exists in that State but perhaps from some internal history of the South Australian system, always seem to be frank, much more candid and co-operative before committees on which I sit than any other government officers in Australia. 
-In answer to some of the points made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  one must point out that the relationship of the Tasmanian membership of this Parliament to the actual total number is established in the Constitution. If the honourable member would give us a guarantee that he would work for an amendment of the Constitution and change it in some way, it would be helpful but he has not done that Let me say that I am sympathetic to some of the points made by the honourable member about representative government. I am a firm believer in representative government and on the whole, after 22 years in this Parliament and a long time in public life, I am prepared to support the view that in most instances there should be more members rather than less. The representatives of the people must face up directly to the great forces which direct the community, the media, the great and powerful commercial and industrial institutions and so on. I am with the honourable member in that regard. I think there should be greater accessibility but the facts of life as we face them here today are conditioned by the failure of the people pf Australia in 1967 to amend the Constitution with regard to the relationship between the Senate and the House of Representatives so far as numbers go. 
I do not blame the honourable member for Riverina or the National Country Party because all the major parties campaigned for it. The Democratic Labor Party campaigned against us and defeated us, to out shame. My own view is that we should amend the Constitution in some way or other. I have canvassed all the members of this Parliament several times. I know that a lot of people in this Parliament are on my side about the matter but nothing happens. The honourable member for Riverina talked about people coming here and being independent, individuals, their own men. Ever since this recent distribution was announced and it was realised that they were going to lose seats, National Country Party members nave been weeping away silently in the corners of Parliament and everywhere else about it, but they have fronted up here today behind the Liberal Party because they are just plain satellites. If they were dinkum parliamentarians they would have stood up long ago and taken steps to change this situation. Whilst I sympathise with those members who have been disadvantaged by this redistribution, I think it is totally ridiculous that the number of members of the House of Representatives is related to the Senate. I have done my best as an individual to change this by encouraging members to do something about it but they have not done so. They are the puppets of the Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  They have turned this institution into his private parliament. The election date, 10 December, is the finest example of this. Dozens of honourable members on the other side are going like lambs to the slaughter. They are the sort of people who, if one saw them at the French Revolution being taken in the tumbrils to the guillotine and a wheel came off, would get out and help the executioner put it back on. That is why they are in a fix. 
What is the practical problem? I believe it is possible to draw up the electoral boundaries so that on the day they are drawn they contain almost equal numbers of electors, I believe that perhaps we should redraw the electoral boundaries after every election at some fixed time before the next election. I believe that we ought to establish a relationship between the number of members of this House and the actual population or the voting population. My suggestion was that we should hold a simple constitutional referendum to provide that there should be one member of the House of Representatives for every 100,000 people. We could resolve the problem with the Northern Territory and so on by relating the membership to the number of people in the smallest electorate. I do not see any practical problem with that. 
I raise a matter that relates to my electorate. I represent one of the industrial areas of Australia. It is a small, highly congested electorate of 1 1 square miles or, I think, 30 square kilometres. It is not the smallest electorate but it is one of the  smallest. 
I do not mind having a lot of Tasmanians coming here. In the last Parliament we had a very fine group of them. The situation has deteriorated a good deal, but that will change on 10 December. Whilst this redistribution is better than most, there is less differential between city seats and country seats than there used to be. I have no sympathy whatsoever for the view that we ought to have a differential that is related to distances or anything else because in this Parliament we make the decisions for the nation in the votes on the floor of the House and the numbers in Australian politics are so finely balanced that when one changes the numbers one changes the vote here. I will give some examples. 
According to a schedule I have in front of me, the electorate of Wills has 73,995 voters. But the electorate has been substantially enlarged. The only other figures I have are the census figures of those actually over 18 years of age. These figures were given to me a while back. In the present electorate- the one I am representing tonightthere are 58,000 people on the electoral roll. The Government Whip is making signs to me to finish off. If he gives me three more minutes I will wind it up and the Government will have to resign, as it is doing. Over 58,000 voters over 18 years of age are now registered for the electorate. There are actually 78,000 people over 18 years of age in the electorate. I should think that about 15,000 of the additional 20,000 people would be non-naturalised people who arein the process of being naturalised. I can foresee that, before many months have passed, the electorate of Wills will be well over the quota. 
On the general question of the difficulty of representation, my friends from the country areas will be well aware that I have travelled throughout this country as much as most of them and I recognise some of their difficulties. I was born in the Western Districts of Victoria. But we represent people. As I have said, my electorate is one of the most congested in this country. It is also one of the most complex. It has one of Australia 's greatest concentrations of migrants. 
It has the best possible representation. People from all over the world have poured into Brunswick and Coburg so that they can get decent representation. The fact of the matter is that the complex social and industrial situation in the electorate of Wills is as difficult and challenging to handle as anything that one can get from the sandhills and spinifex of the Mallee. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)-  the temporary honourable member for Bendigo- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Several points made by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  I think ought to be answered for the record. The Senate had not rejected the legislation in 1975. This is a most disgraceful exercise, to raise the Governor-General's salary- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a correction to a statement made by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  During the course of his speech on this issue the honourable member said that we on this side of the House when in government had refused to acknowledge the Senate's refusal of Supply. Nothing of the sort happened. 
The Senate had not made a decision. No vote had been taken. It was not even sure that it should. 
We do not mind the fair play of debate in this place, but if people are going to talk about recent history they should at least get their facts straight, and that was a downright misstatement. 
-You said that the Senate did refuse it. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. In the course of his answer to a question from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the Treasurer said that outside investors actually are operating in the market place. Who are the outside investors? What are their operations? To which market place is he referring and how does it operate? Can he put his answers in English? 

 -Mr Speaker, during the course of question time the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  made a statement that upon my return from Cambodia in 1970 I ran away from statements which I had made while I was there. That is totally false. In 1970 I was a member of a parliamentary delegation that visited Cambodia, now the Khmer mer Republic. I made an appeal while I was there for help for the Cambodians because they were under invasion from North Vietnam. I held to that position when I came home. I attended many meetings at which there were great and angry audiences which had things to say about me. I stood my ground. I was right then on Cambodia, now the Khmer Republic, and I am right now on Timor. 
I want to speak to that motion,  Mr Speaker.  I think it reflects great discredit upon the management of this Parliament that we should be changing the arrangements in such a way as we are doing. It causes great inconvenience throughout the whole continent when we change the standard meeting times of this Parliament. Just consider the situation with the Australian Broadcasting Commission as the first victim. When the House sits beyond 1 1 o'clock at night it means a change in programming; it places the Commission's position in jeopardy with regard to planning and all such operations. Every member of this House is totally and completely disadvantaged and inconvenienced by being unable to plan what we are going to do next Thursday, Friday and Monday. It is no way to run an institution such as this. It creates a lack of faith in the organisation behind it. It creates instability in the attitudes towards government, and we ought not to do it. The Parliament ought to resist it with whatever strength it has. I suppose there is not much point in Opposition supporters voting against this motion or doing anything of that sort. Government supporters will front up no matter what. The Government will lead them to the slaughter, as it will do in the next few weeks, and they will all follow like sheep. 
This is no way to run a Parliament. I lodge my protest. I have no objection to the Parliament meeting continuously at great length as long as it does not meet late at night and observes reasonable hours. After all, Parliament is a debating chamber and its business is to meet. Unless we can organise meetings of the Parliament over which we have absolute control- we all have become the victims of the criticism of it- how can we claim to run the nation? The Parliament of this country is becoming increasingly irrelevant in people's minds because of the haphazard, reckless, careless and irresponsible way in which we run its affairs. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I support my two colleagues, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I have had substantial disagreements with my friend, the honourable member for Mackellar, over large areas of public policy and even, perhaps, about the way we have run the Parliament on occasions. However, on this issue I think we have stood pretty well shoulder to shoulder since we came to this place. This is what Parliament is all about. I cannot understand how people in all conscience can handle the Parliament as it is being handled. I mentioned in the debate on the hours and days of meeting the sheer inconvenience caused to everybody-  Hansard  writers, Library staff and all the other people associated with the Parliament. Suddenly their arrangements have to be changed. Things that they were going to do at a certain hour they are now unable to do. There is no guarantee that they will be free at the normal times at which they would be free from the ordinary business of making a living and whatever else they do. Let us consider the whole subject that is before us. Take, for instance, the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill. I understand that this makes substantial changes to the actual powers of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to control programming. I think it is a fundamental change - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the honourable member for Wills that although he may use as an illustration a Bill being put through without sufficient time for discussion, he must not touch on the subject matter of the Bill or facts relating to it or any other legislation. 
I am not talking about the substance of the Bill at all. I am not saying whether it is good or bad. I suppose that is what debate is about. The question under consideration is what is before the House for discussion. We may not discuss anything. We have been victims for long enough of the forestalling of debate and the behaviour of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  in having the brass to chide other persons for not speaking in this House. The only speeches he ever makes are to move that the question be put. I notice that an amendment to the Copyright Act is likely to come before us. An archives Bill is to come before us. Both the archives Bill and the copyright amendment Bill are matters that cause a great deal of discussion and ought to have a great deal of parliamentary scrutiny. They are both fundamental. 
This House is the inheritor of some 900 years of parliamentary tradition. All the substantial systems of examination of legislation have been developed over that time to protect the rights of minorities in this chamber, the majorities and minorities outside and the members of the Par.liament to discuss the questions before it. What we have seen in the last two years is an almost unprecedented shaking of the system. Indeed it went back further than that with the behaviour of the other place. 
What I said earlier today is in fact happening in the community. People are saying: 'What is the point of the institution? It is run as the Prime Minister's private parliament. He does as he will with it.  His  own side just fronts up. They are just numbers in the situation'. My friends at the table-the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  and the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)-  seem to think that I am speaking in rather too many decibels. But when one has to get through to people such as they, one needs to speak loudly and long. It may even be that they think I am being repetitious. I was a member of the Victorian teaching service for many years and I was taught- I found it was substantially true- that with slow learners one has to be repetitious. I do not know when this Parliament is going to learn that the suspension of the 1 1 o'clock rule is a change to the traditional way in which we run the place. I thought that perhaps during our term of office we were often a bit heavy-handed. 
-No. I used to say so. But I recognise the great difficulty we have. Even if this legislation were to have another six months before us we could not debate all these issues satisfactorily. This matter should have been looked at during the hearings of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System and some of the recommendations of that Committee implemented. That is very important. The facts are that not only was the 1 1 o'clock rule established to bring sensible discussion to debate, but also the 11 o'clock closure was a substantial advantage to the whole institution. I deplore any effort to change it, to remove it or to get into the bad habit of meeting late at night. It is one of the worst features of the parliamentary system. 
I know that my friends, the Minister for no trade negotiations in Europe,  Mr Howard,  and the Minister for not building anything,  Mr McLeay,  are getting a bit edgy about this. They would juke to get on with the business of running the country as their private property. From my experience of watching governments for a long while and from a close study of history, I can say that it is a very good prescription for ending up outside the parliament. The mishandling of this institution is a very good way of making the community fed up with the government and with us too. I do not mind the people getting fed up with the Government. After all, they made a serious error in the first place. But it reflects on all of us and we have to do something about it I hope my friend, the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  who is temporarily with us, will have a word to say because I do not think that the institution he graced earlier behaved often in this way. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Howard)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  was going to make great play about the problems of Mount Lyell. He barely mentioned the place. He was right in one thing. He said that all honourable members on that side of the House will be twicers. As a matter of fact that is what most of them are when it comes to political questions. I also congratulate the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  - 
Motion (by  Mr Cotter)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Let me remind honourable members that the exercise of absolute power and authority is often a very ephemeral matter. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  may make his gracious condescending acts on my behalf but I will be here after the next election. I suppose he will be too. This is no way to treat one another. This Bill deals with a grant to a mining company in Tasmania. None of us on this side of the House have any objection whatsoever to the company's continuation in business and the preservation of the security of the people of Queenstown. However, the point I was going to make relates in particular to clause 4 of the Bill which refers to agreements. At the present moment the Australian Government is making a grant for a period of 1 1 weeks at a cost of $lm. The cost to the Tasmanian Government over the same period will be another $ lm. If we add those two amounts together we can calculate that the cost per employee is something like $3,600. Whatever the arithmetic is, it is not significant. 
There are three points that I would like to make about this matter. Firstly, the company does not pay any interest. Secondly, it is under no obligation to make a repayment until it gets out of its problems. Thirdly the Commonwealth has no equity. The largest holding in the company involved is held by Consolidated Goldfields of Australia Ltd. I do not think it is any business of this Parliament to be giving continuous grants of this sort to sustain private enterprise in its continuing ownership of the resources of Australia My own view would be that this money ought to be recorded as being equity capital in the company. 
-I do not know what you are doing. You are making a grant. You are one of those people- the honourable member for Denison is a man who is always talking about - 

 -Mr Speaker, I just want to make it clear that from the moment I thought that the proceedings had reached the point where a member could say that he wanted the Bill to go into Committee, I started to say so, both from a sitting position and from a standing position - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at  12.22  a.m. (Thursday) 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the advertisement in today's  Australian  which includes a notation from him and his signature. The advertisment is entitled 'This year's school leavers are next year's future'. How many school leavers will there be at the end of December? How many jobs will be available for them by the end of January? If the answer is that the greater proportion of them will be out of work, is not the theme of that advertisement misleading and an unethical use or a misuse of public funds as part of a political campaign? 
I listened with great care to what the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  had to say. While he does not often speak in this chamber, what he has to say comes from a long experience in the very spirit of private enterprise. We rather suspect that that colours his whole philosophy when dealing with this subject. Proposed new section 79d states: 
 The functions of the Service are- 
to provide broadcasting and television services for such special purposes as are prescribed. 
Throughout the legislation it seems to me that the powers of prescription lie with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. While I have fairly strong feelings about ministerial rights, authority and so onin certain matters I think we are in a special area when we are dealing with the control, ownership and direction of broadcasting services. It is quite obvious from what the Minister said that he foresees directions being given to establish broadcasting services in special areas. Obviously, the Minister can prescribe that they be established for political purposes, special social purposes or anything else. 
That is right. Frankly, I think the Minister either has wool over his own eyes or is attempting to pull wool over ours. We must be granted the right to be rather cynical about honourable members opposite when it comes to public broadcasting. They have destroyed the very basis upon which it was developed by various groups in the Australian community from 1972 to 1975.I heard honourable members say that there was great disquiet in the community at what developed. There was disquiet among our political opponents and there was disquiet among various extreme groups in the community, some of which reside in the Liberal Party, some in the National Country Party and some in other areas. The fact is that since the Government came to power it has taken every possible step - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I will be just a moment,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Although the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  was eloquent - 
I am making a speech. I can understand that you do not quite grasp what this debate is all about. We are talking about the Grants Commission and its influence upon the finances of Tasmania. The facts are that under the Federal Labor Government Tasmania was relieved of the responsibility for its railways and that under the State Labor Government there have been years of good management The honourable member for Denison is unaware of those things and uses every opportunity in this place to try to make it appear that members of the Opposition hate Tasmania. We do not. We have the deepest sympathy for Tasmania because of the kind of representation it has in this place. 
I want to raise several new points about this matter. First, I think it is indicative of the way in which the country has been administered over the last few months that we are arriving at this decision about the life of this legislation at this late hour, just as we were two hours back considering legislation to correct a redistribution. I would like to raise with honourable members the possibility that there are other ways in which we should examine this problem; that perhaps Parliament has not sufficient opportunity to examine the problem, .which in many respects is a very difficult one. What exactly is a homeless person? 
Although there is a definition here, it is quite vague and the application of the Act must therefore be vague. 
We had an example of that in Canberra a couple of years backin the case of Reid House. It was alleged by community groups that there were large numbers of homeless people in this city. Therefore when the time came to remove Reid House from the city, a ban was put upon its removal and we could not get anything started, so we decided to renovate it and spend a fair sum of money to that end. I went there one evening after the House adjourned to see what kind of people were using it as their refuge. I suppose there were 12 or 15 people there. When we sat down we talked in a friendly way in a relaxed atmosphere. Two of them were actually in residence because they were homeless people. The other 10 or 13 were young students and other people from round about who were on the committee for homeless people. 
Scattered throughout Australia are large numbers of folk who find it difficult to have settled lives. Therefore there is a great need for accommodation for homeless people. Some of the need has nothing to do with people's financial situations. For instance, Hanover Welfare Services in Melbourne runs an extensive organisation including Gordon House, a very large institution with 200 or 300 beds. It has no difficulty in finding people to use that accommodation and pay the very moderate costs involved. 
I hope that the House will apply itself to this matter more thoroughly. Perhaps a welfare committee of this House or an appropriate Senate committee could examine the matter so that we can provide money in such a way as to fulfil the initiatives taken three years ago. It is disappointing that so many of the programs which the Labor Government launched have been affected. They have not exactly come to a halt- some have not even been dismantled- but progress has been minimal. This is a serious reflection upon the way the country is run. I should think that the last two years have been the most sterile for a Commonwealth government in the history of Australian federation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Yesterday, in answer to a question from my colleague the honourable member for Prospect, the Minister for Health admitted that  Mr Justice  Ludeke had granted to the medical profession an award greater than that which was justified by the consumer price index increase and that he did not propose to appeal against it. Has the Minister noted that the Victorian Government has appealed against an award for railway workers in Victoria, thus causing serious industrial unrest? Will he use his good offices as a senior member of this Government and of the Victorian Liberal Party to ask the Victorian Government to apply to other members of the work force the same principles that this Government applies to the members of the medical profession? 
I wish to raise the point that, whilst we agreed to this debate proceeding, it seems to me to be a total misuse of the parliamentary forms. There are already on the Notice Paper a number of items which, if debated adequately, would cover the matters that are contained in the substantive motion. I refer to the Australian Rural Bank Bill, which I have no doubt will be debated in die most meagre fashion, the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Bill and the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill. There are two reports on the Notice Paper which are unlikely to be debated. They have been on the Notice Paper for a long while. I refer to the report by the Department of Productivity and the White Paper and ministerial statement on Manufacturing Industry. They could cover the whole question of the economy of the country. 
I regard the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders as a total misuse of parliamentary time and of the parliamentary power of the majority. During the last few weeks when we were debating the Estimates, in each instance the debate was cut short. Matters that ought to have been debated fully were not debated. I want to know for how long the debate on the censure motion will proceed. Will it be an open forum in which at least 10 or 12 members will take part, or will it be simply another foray, so that there is a record placed in  Hansard,  by two or three members from each side, and the rest of us being here to make up the numbers? On this matter I speak on behalf of everybody in this Parliament, I am sure. There has been a great deterioration in the opportunity for most back bench members to participate in debate. Honourable members will say to me: 'Yes, but you make enough noise; you speak often enough . It is true that I do. I have spent a long time studying the Standing Orders so that I can take advantage of opportunities such as this to say what I have said now. There are other opportunities which I may take if I am not heard properly and in the way in which I think the man representing the people of Wills ought to be heard. My firm conviction is that the representative of the people of Wills ought to have as much right to speak in this House as the man who represents the people of Wannon. This is a consortium of equals. The way in which it has been handled is a disgrace to the parliamentary system. 
I am speaking about the necessity to suspend Standing Orders. I am saying that it is unnecessary. The point of order taken by the temporary honourable member for New England is a typical example of him and of his approach to everybody else in the place. Fortunately the lessons of history are clear to those who care to look. The people who exercise power in an arbitrary and a capricious fashion are due for the axe themselves before long. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I suppose the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  had a few points to make but they were obscured with what I would call rather specious arguments. He is proud of the situation that has developed in social security. I point out that this Government is the inheritor of most of these systems. It has introduced no new initiatives at all so far as one can tell. 
There have been changes in quality in one way or another and changes in description. Family allowances, of course, are the direct descendants of such matters as child endowment and all the rest of it. There again are the distinctions without a difference upon which the honourable member thrives. He mentioned that more people are now on pensions and that a bigger proportion of people over 65 are now on pensions. He overlooked the rather important factor that the abolition of the means test for people over 70 years brought in a large number of extra pensioners. He used the term 'the enormity of the burden' and I will deal with that in a moment. He expressed the views of all of us, I would expect, when he said that he wants to see an Australia in which no human being will want for the substance of human existence. I think that is the objective of all of us. But we have watched him support consistently a government whose whole program has been to deprive the people at the lower end of the scale to the advantage of the people at the top end of the scale. I have not time this afternoon to debate that matter but the shift in the wealth of this nation back from the work force and the household to the business corporations has been quite dramatic in the last couple of years. 
There is another fact that I think we should not ignore. The honourable member said that the percentage of the pension in relation to average weekly earnings was now higher than it was when, the Government came into office a couple of years ago. The fact is that the Government has adopted the policy- and it has had it enforced through the various tribunals which decide these matters- that the rise in the consumer price index will not be fully applied to people's wages. So, there has been a fall in the relationship between the CPI and average weekly earnings whereas pensions have been indexed in full. Some of those arguments are not all that real either. An increase of 2 per cent on $200 a week is only the same in money terms as an increase of 2.6 per cent on $150 a week. I suppose that the lone fathers benefit is one of these things that is long overdue, but again it is a development of the system established in the past. 
-He would not have thought of it if there had not been an allowance for lone mothers. 
-We did very well in three years. I do not have the time this afternoon to explain it all. I will write to the honourable member from here after the election. We support the handicapped childrens benefit. We support the extension of the rehabilitation scheme. I think the approach to the young people's unemployment benefit is totally immoral, callous and insensitive. I believe that the approach to married women and sickness benefits, which is put in the Bill as a demonstration of non-discriminatory tactics on the pan of this Government, is a specious exercise. 
I want to deal with the general principles of what we are talking about. Social security at this stage in Australia ought not to be just something to do with the deserving poor. It is a right, not a charity. It has taken a long while for the community to become accustomed to it. We are accustomed to it in most areas related to pension benefits. We are accustomed to it in a good number of areas related to invalid benefits and things of that nature. But we are still not accustomed to accepting it in relation to people who are unemployed. I regard the use of the term 'dole' as offensive. I regard the use of the term 'dole bludger' as even more offensive. So I hope that members of this Parliament at least will stop using it. 
People who do not know any better cannot be blamed. I refer to those people who write for the Press and others but I think it is time we started to adopt an attitude' which has been expressed for a long while in legislation passed by this place, namely, that there are people in the community who are entitled to a certain degree of support from the community. When such support is given, the terms upon which they receive it have to be couched in such a way that they retain their human dignity. 
So our aim in this place should be to establish a reasonable standard of living for all Australians: We should, I suppose, examine the arithmetic of it for this year. I was calculating the figures only a moment ago, based on my own recent observations of statistics so I ask honourable members not to hold me to the arithmetic. What is the situation? I return to the statement of our friend, the honourable member for Denison, who referred to the enormity of the burden. There are some 14 million of us on this continent. About six and a half million are doing work of various kinds, and I suppose that includes us, all the people in the normal work force, all the people who are self-employed, and all the rest of us. That leaves perhaps six and a half million or seven million other people who have to live upon the production, services and goods supplied by those people. 
I suppose two and a half million of the 14 million population are at school; half a million are at pre-school, I guess. I expect that two million people are living at home in various circumstancesin retirement or in circumstances of that nature. Perhaps one million married women are not active in the work force and half a million people are unemployed. 
We have one of the wealthiest countries in the world, and we have at our disposal an enormous capacity to produce. We have accepted the principle that a great number of people ought to receive benefits without any means test being applied. We are accustomed to that situation. I suppose at this stage we should be looking at such techniques as a guaranteed minimum income, hardship supplements or benefits of that nature. But we still have a little way to go before we can drag such a scheme out of the great tangle of benefits which we provide at the present time. 
Whenever we are talking about these things we should remember that a very large proportion of the Australian work force goes into retirement on community-supported meanstestfree income. We are a part of that group. I suppose that we pay more towards our pension or our superannuation, call it what you will, in proportion to our income than almost anybody else in the work force. I pay $2,500 per annum. I have been in the Parliament for 20 years. I do not know what my average contribution would be over those years but it is probably of the order of $2,000 per annum. On that basis I would have paid so far $40,000. But, of course, I was paying only £500 or £600-say $l,000-during the first years after I entered Parliament so I probably would have paid in total about $30,000. If the electors of the division of Wills exercise justice and retire me instead of exercising mercy, I will go out on a pension equivalent to three-quarters of our salary; that is, about $18,000. After 2V4 years I would be getting to the position where I had got back what I had paid in. We all accept that. 
I was in the Victorian teaching service for 20 years. During that time I was paying into a pension scheme which would have provided me with substantial benefits upon retirement. Under that scheme it might have taken longer for me to get back the money I had paid in. I do not know what the figures would be, but there must be more than half a million people in Australia contributing to superannuation schemes of various government instrumentalities. There must be 100,000 people in the defence services and its subsidiaries. So we are talking about something like three-quarters of a million people at least who will receive a substantial means-test-free government-supported income. We should be applying ourselves continuously to the idea that the community should be able to provide that sort of benefit for the remainder of the work force, no matter how much it costs. I know that those people who put forward arguments about the means test are bedevilled by the sheer arithmetic of the situation. I do not claim to know the answer. All I ask is that on occasions such as this we do take time off to examine it. 
I want to spend a moment or two dealing with the unemployment benefit. I am one of those people who from 1932 to 1935 was unemployed. I know what it is all about. I left school and did not get a job and there was no unemployment benefit. I think that the system which is being adopted here this afternoon is most callous, insensitive and mean. I hope that those spirited defenders of the freedom of the individual and of humanity, such as my friends from Tasmania, will support us in this regard. A young person leaving school today is going into a very tense personal family situation. To add this to it is to compound the misery we have imposed upon them collectively by not being able to solve the economic problems of the country. It is not an economic question; it is one of humanity. 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed  to: 
That the question be now put. 
I apologise to honourable members of the National Country Party, who obviously think they should have the call, for speaking in this place. After all, what right has an ordinary member of the Australian Labor Party to speak in the Parliament of Australia? 
-Let me give some of the history correctly. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  of course is correct. During his career as Minister for Social Services he carried out some advances, and during his period as a Government back bencher he also did the things which he mentioned today. The fact is that the real breakthrough was when the Labor Government put the supporting mother's benefit in the book. We should congratulate those people who initiated the idea. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who was Minister for Social Security at the time, persuaded all the people involved that it ought to be done. There are so many difficulties of definition and technicalities that people dredge up at times like this. To arrive at the stage when this Parliament is prepared to accept the fact that people may be entitled to benefits of this nature, whether or not they live together and whether or not they have been legally married, is a great social advance. It has taken a long time. 
From my own observations, one of the most disadvantaged groups in the community are the fathers, the men who have lost their wives, the supporter or other parent of their children. No matter what  level of income  they have or what status of employment they enjoy, it is tremendous hardship and a great blow. I hope we can take all these things a few steps further and make sure that we remove all such disabilities. I just say out of kindness to everybody here that all those people like the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and all the other people who have taken part can exercise only a small amount of influence on the way the country is run. To those who will be leaving us as soon as the election is declared, I say that even if they feel that their contribution to the Parliament has all been very minimal, it has been for the nation, and that is a much bigger contribution than painting the back fence of the kindergarten on Saturday afternoon in a working bee. 
I think that this is another example of the almost unbelievable incompetence of this Government. It does not know what day we are going to meet, what hour we are going to meet - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
-May I continue the speech I was making? All I wanted to say is that here is another example of incompetence in handling the business of the Parliament - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put.  Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I refer to the differential treatment as between State schools and non-State schools which I see implied in this legislation. For a definition as to which schools are disadvantaged and the decision on which schools are disadvantaged, we will rely upon the State Ministers for Education. For the definition of disadvantaged non-government schools the Commonwealth Minister for Education shall determine the position for himself. I consider that that places many of the State schools at a disadvantage in comparison with non-State schools. It is not totally discriminatory in the sense in which we sometimes use the word, but the result will be that State schools will become the victims of all sorts of political points that may well try to be scored by State governments such as the Queensland one. In Victoria we are pretty confident that the Victorian Government did not apply the same kind of criteria as we wished to apply from the Commonwealth end. In this instance we are absolutely certain that the situation will be to the disadvantage of most Australian State schools which need Commonwealth help. 
We are looking for equality between the various forms of education in Australia. There is no doubt that one of the features of Australian education has been the inequality between States as there has been between country and city areas, between various socio-economic areas in the major cities and between Aboriginal communities and non-aboriginal communities. The only way of levelling out inequalities between States and giving all the young people of Australia the same advantages and the same access to education is for the Commonwealth Government to lay down the principles upon which disadvantaged schools will be served. Therefore I ask the Government to give serious consideration to changing the form of definition of disadvantaged schools. That is why we wanted to speak in the first instance on the forms of definition in regards to disadvantaged schools. 
During the last term office of the Labor Government it was clear to those like my friend, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  and myself who represent industrial areas of Melbourne that the Victorian Government had no concern whatsoever for the disadvantaged schools in those electorates- the schools which comply with the requirements and the criteria set out in this legislation. Those schools have a large number of migrant children. The economic status of the parents is of a lower order than it is in many other suburbs in the cities. The parents of these children are unable to support them in the same way at school and in many cases the parents are unable to apply themselves to the question of being part of the corporate body of the school life as they can in other areas. These are the schools to which the Victorian Government paid scant attention. The only we will level that out and give the equal treatment is for the Commonwealth Government to accept the same responsibility for the State schools as it does for the non-State schools. 
I understand that the present Government is obsessed with State rights and therefore is loth to interfere with the power of State governments in the field of education. I consider, and I believe my colleagues from this side of the chamber consider, that the rights of the children transcend any consideration of State rights or anything of that order. I hope that the Committee will pay closer attention to this matter. This is a complicated piece of legislation. It has some SO-odd clauses. I hope we have made it clear to Government members and the people responsible for the management of business in this place that we consider it a serious matter that such an important piece of legislation has such meagre time for debate. The general principles of education which we would have liked to have put before the Parliament will have to be bypassed. 
I hope that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  will note my remarks and when he replies to the debate on this clause will give a clear statement of the reason for this differential between non-State and State schools. The Commonwealth Government accepts a full and direct responsibility for disadvantaged non-government schools. Its whole approach to government schools is indirect. The Opposition feels that there should be no differential. Our duty is to all Australians, including young people, in the education system equally and the objective is to create equality of access and equality of opportunity to a higher standard of education. I believe that clause 4 will fail if the Federal Minister opts out. If a government wants direct results it has to take direct responsibility. I hope that the Minister is able to answer my comments or at some stage to get an effective answer from the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  as to the reasons for clause 4. 
I thank the Minister. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill-by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I wish to raise several points in relation to what one might term the philosophy of it all. One of the points is related to the history and another to the administration. Perhaps I will deal with the history aspect first of all. I think the House has been rather unkind to honourable members on this side of the chamber in relation to this general matter. My friend, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  and I have taken a long term interest in education. I remind members of the House that, when they come into the chamber to vote and they find the same people causing the trouble, it will be because the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  is doing his duty in his inimitable way and because we on this side are doing our duty as we see it. 
On 6 May 1958 I, having been a member of this Parliament for two years or so, moved the following motion: 
The urgent need for the Commonwealth to take action to ensure that sufficient funds are available to each State of the Commonwealth to provide adequate public education facilities for its people. 
In those days we were treated in a slightly different way, I suggest, because after I spoke to that motion I was responded to on that occasion by  Mr Menzies,  the then Prime Minister and honourable member for Kooyong. Honourable members will be interested in his thoughts on that occasion. He had this to say: 
But I should like to say to the honourable member that I rather envy the easy way in which he sets the Constitution on one side on the ground that it is out of date. 
I would rather have thought that even the right honourable gentleman would now have joined the forces of the ungodly and would have been on our side on that matter. 
The points I make about technical education in particular are well set out in the report of the Technical and Further Education Commission for the triennium 1977-79. The few points that it makes may well be placed on the record. At page xxvvii of its report the Commission states: 
The most pressing need in the next triennium is to provide adequate opportunities to individuals to further their educational development, including their capacity to become skilled, knowledgeable, adaptable members of the labour force, and through this, to enhance security and job satisfaction. 
Further on the report refers to the fact that Australia clearly lags behind many other Western industralised nations in the level of skilled training of its labour force. In 1971 only half of adults in skilled blue collar occupations held appropriate trade or technician qualifications. It points out that the occupational mix of the labour force will operate to increase still further the importance of technical and further education in the development of labour force skills. Because of the significance of female participation for the future of the Australian labour force, there will be a growing need to come to terms with the apparent disparity between women's aspirations and the existing realities of the labour market. In the educational aspects of this process, the Commission sees the role of TAFE institutions as being of major importance. 
I believe that some statements of particular importance are contained in this document. The report then goes on to point out what we ought to be doing in some other areas. I taught in the Victorian education system for 20 years. I do not know that I ever taught under circumstances which made teaching easy or comfortable, although I hope a good deal of that teaching was effective. I am not one who believes that all the gold plated trimmings and so on are needed in education to make teaching effective, but certainly teaching is easier and more effective if the equipment and the environment is adequate. Page 116 of the report deals with accommodation in New South Wales. It reads: 
Students are at present accommodated in 290 buildings less than thirty years old, 300 buildings more than thirty years old and in 124 leased premises. 
It is unfortunate that over the last 30 or 40 years we have not capitalised in many areas of our education system as much as did the generation of our grandparents. I am afraid that over the last two years there has been a great fall-off in the dynamics of change in education. Some of that will occur because of finances; a good deal of it will occur because of the internal dynamics of the system and the way in which change is encouraged. I think I should say that in my experience those people who have been occupied in the education industry, if one could term it such, have suffered a serious blow to their morale because of the insecurity that has developed over the last two years in relation to the development of curriculum research and such matters. 
I wish to place before the Parliament a matter concerned with administration. It is probably too late to obtain an effective answer in this Parliament. It is concerned with clause 4 of the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill, which reads: 
1 ) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister- 
a) may approve a building project - 
That clause then sets out the institutions from which he may receive a submission- universities, colleges of advanced education, technical and further education institutions. I have no complaint about that. I point out to members of the Parliament and to anyone else who may be listening to the debate the actual significance of that provision if it is related to the provisions in the schools legislation. In that legislation no definition is given in relation to a building or even a school. I think I am correct in saying that. However, such a definition is given in relation to other institutions. 
I think that is of great advantage to the tertiary education institutions when the Commonwealth says: 'You can have $20,000 for this purpose or $ 1.35m for that building somewhere else'. If an application for funds is sent off to the Victorian Education Department which does not specify the Brunswick Technical College or a building project at the Moreland High School, or in which it is not specified that the funds are for the purpose of fixing up the Fitzroy Primary School, those works will not be earned out. I think we have to instil in the States the same sense of direction, if one likes to call it that, the same sense of constitutional challenge in relation to primary and secondary education as we have been doing in relation to tertiary education for nigh on 20 years. 
I hope the House will take note of those points. I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to put those points in his diary so that his colleague, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  can look at them. We will fix the situation ourselves immediately after 10 December. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, with reasonable brevity I express sympathy with the point of view of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  not necessarily with the details he has placed before the House but with his attitude to the way in which the matter has been treated. I think my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  feels the same way. I believe that this is a disgraceful parliamentary exercise. There is not much we can do about it, but I think it ought to be placed on record that this is just another example of the incompetence of this Government, which is unable to manage the affairs of the Parliament which has had procedures running for 700 years now. One would think that even a government such as this would have learned from all that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion ( by  Mr Viner)  proposed. 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that the Government should support the resolution presently before the United Nations calling for self determination for the people of East Timor and the withdrawal of Indonesian troops. 
-The Defence Force (Retirement and Death Benefits Amendments) Bill (No. 2) 1977 is part of the long and continual liberalisation of the Defence Force retirement benefits system; so the Opposition side of the House supports it. 
I am glad that my friends opposite also support it and agree with it. 
In a way I suppose that they introduced some of it, but this is one of the more interesting pieces of legislation of this Parliament in the long haul to obtain reasonable retirement provisions for the people in the defence services. There has been a continuous struggle by people on both sides of the House and people outside the House to remove some of the anomalies between the Public Service superannuation schemes and schemes such as this one. The liberalisation in this legislation covers the spouse who is widowed after the retirement of the serviceman and who remarries, and the spouse who married the pensioner after the pensioner attained the age of 60 years. It is interesting that it has always been difficult to have such reforms accepted as reasonable social security projects. Ever since I entered this Parliament we have had discussions of this nature. I do not know why it has taken 20 years to liberalise these matters. I recall 1 7 or 1 8 years ago having a discussion with the Commonwealth Actuary, on behalf of a committee outside of this to which I belonged, in which I raised the case of the widow of a serviceman who remarried after the servicemen's retirement. The horror that the Actuary brought to the discussion when it was suggested that we ought to disregard the peculiarity of her situation and bestow the normal benefit was almost incredible. 
I hope that the Bill is gratefully received throughout the system. I think the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has had something to do with recent developments in this field. A former member for La Trobe,  Mr John  Jess, and a committee of this Parliament had a good deal to do with updating the scheme. If I remember rightly- I would hate to introduce politics at this stage of this Parliament- it was the Labor Government which implemented most of that committee's recommendations and started things on their way. So we all have had a part in it, but we all have been a part also of the illiberal interpretations of the system. 
This afternoon 1 remind honourable members and the people responsible for drafting this legislation and for the examination of the scheme of the situation of those officers who retired, I think, prior to 1962. 1 am open to correction, but from a glance at the speech I think we have not brought servicemen up to date with the people who retired post-1962. 
That is correct, 1972. I know servicemen of long and distinguished service who were gravely disadvantaged by this failure to introduce what might be called 'catch-up ' provisions. I know of one soldier who graduated from Duntroon towards the end of the First World War, went overseas, served in the regular Army continuously during the period of peace, was in Europe at the beginning of the Second World War, formed a battalion and carried it through to battlefields and who rose to the rank, I think, of brigadier and ultimately retired as a lieutenant-general. I do not know exactly what his pension is, but I would guess that it is very low down in the system. It is probably not much better than the pension of a person who served for 10 or 12 years, who may have seen no active service at all and who retired as a lieutenant or a warrant officer or something of that order. 
Some years ago when we first started to discuss this matter only 7,000 or 8,000 people were involved. There is an incredible meanness in the system when we come to discuss matters such as this in relation to pensions, whether they be pensions of servicemen or other folk. Such meanness was reflected in the Act governing parliamentary pensions. There were certain restrictions on the widow's pension if the member had married after a certain age  or  within a certain period before bis retirement. I do not think those things are justifiable. 
I was saying here this afternoon, as I have said on a lot of occasions in this place, that when we are speaking about people who put on the uniform to serve in the armed Services, they accept a totally different responsibility from that of any of us who do not do so. It may well be that a person will serve for 20 years and will not move far from headquarters or from barracks. It may well be that a person enlists in the Services and within a few months he is in some totally unexpected situation such as Vietnam and his life or his health is forfeited. It is a totally different quality of service. Therefore it cannot be evaluated in any way in terms of money. So this afternoon I am grateful, on behalf of those people in my electorate who will benefit from this legislation, for the fact that something more has happened. I hope that in the not too distant future we will be in a position to take up all the anomalies and iron them out. That ought to apply to other systems too. This is one of those cases in which the superannuation scheme for public servants has been a trendsetter. 
This afternoon in the last few minutes of this Parliament I am grateful for the opportunity to speak uninterrupted. I noted that as I rose to speak an increasing number of people, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  came into the chamber to listen. It has been one of my great sorrows that the right honourable gentle.man who was elected to this Parliament at the same time as myself and who made his maiden speech on the same night as I did, has refused to benefit from the continual advice I have given him about bis political views. However, he is still not too old to be corrected. As I make what I suppose is going to be one of the last speeches of this Parliament, I remind the House that I made one of the first speeches of the Parliament on the day we elected the  Speaker.  Honourable members will be interested to note that, having spoken for what amounted to about a third of a column in  Hansard,  the present right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who represents that constituency for the time being, had the question put and I was gagged. I hope that this afternoon we will depart from this Parliament with some sense of responsibility for the parliamentary system. 
One is critical of the short time allotted for this debate. This is a very lengthly piece of legislation; it has 51 clauses; it is a very complicated piece of legislation. But we have no time to deate it. The sheer arithmetic of this Parliament means that we will not have time to debate legislation such as this in the future either. If 80 or 90 pieces of legislation such as this are brought down and we try to fit them in end to end during the parliamentary year, there is no way in which that can be done. Therefore there has to be a legislative committee system. I hope that we will get round to that so that we can start to feel more as though we are in a participating parliamentary democracy. 
I shall refrain from speaking during the adjournment debate this afternoon but will express my thoughts now. I do not know what one wishes honourable members opposite on an occasion such as this. I will be going out into electorates to try to entice the people to see otherwise than do honourable members opposite and to encourage them to return people who represent the forces of progress and justice as do members on my side of the House. I have no doubt that vigorous campaigns will be conducted by honourable members opposite in the electorate of Wills to try to remove me. At least they will drive through the electorate on occasions, but I suppose they will not stop. On the whole, one can only say,  Mr Speaker,  that under your benign guidance and the way in which you conducted the affairs of the House- and you have improved through 22 years' association with me- the House has overcome many great difficulties and troubles that come from the tensions that arise in it. On the whole, one finds that most members are personable, that they are easy to get along with when travelling interstate or overseas on parliamentary committees. I hope that the spirit of good sense, good judgment and bonhomie we bring to occasions such as this will eventually extend to the consideration of social legislation such as that now before the House and that, instead of taking 20 years to drift and trudge through the liberalising of matters, we will get on with it from day one and will do things properly from the very beginning. 
-During my earlier oration, I omitted to mention one very distinguished member of this House who contributed a good deal to this legislation, that is, our friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He was a member of the committee to which I referred and was the Treasurer responsible for the first implementation of the features of the report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-I have great pleasure in seconding the nomination of my colleague, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  Whilst I do not withdraw many things from the qualifications espoused on behalf of the right honourable member for Bruce  (Sir Billy Snedden)  by my friend the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown),  I think I ought to remind the House that we are here today debating who is to chair one of the more useful democratic institutions still left in this society. 
Let us consider some of the qualifications that were mentioned by my friend from Diamond Valley. He said that the occupant of the Chair had to have great respect for democratic government. How can any member of the Liberal Party claim to have any respect for democracy? He said that a deep reverence for the parliamentary institution was necessary. Turn back the record to the time when the right honourable member was Leader of the House and trampled on every right and liberty of every person in this place. How can he be independent? We have only to look at the fate of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  to see what happens if one is supposed to be independent. Anybody who says that the honourable member for Lyne was independent in his judicial position in this place has a quaint view of the meaning of the word 'independent'. 
I will say, though, to my right honourable friend from Bruce that over the two years he did bring some touch of discretion to the Speaker's Chair. This Parliament needs a more discretionary power in the hands of the  Speaker.  He made some tentative steps in that direction but they were not enough. We are still too ready to apply the closure. I think the  Speaker  ought to be able to refuse to apply it. We are still under Executive domination. We are still in a position where we have only to look at the Notice Paper to see that at any time a Minister may move the closure of a debate. This Parliament, and this House in particular, is under Executive domination. It threatens all of us, not just honourable members on this side of the House. I hope the right honourable gentleman, if, by some error on the part of the majority of this House, he retains his position as  Speaker,  will do something about it. He will have to do something. 
My friend from Scullin has provided guarantees in his past record that he will do something about the capacity to participate in this place where we all ought to be equal. I think the lack of resources for members of parliament and its committees is a matter to which we have to pay attention. As we know, when the right honourable member for Bruce was Treasurer he never gave a single thought to it and he is unlikely to do much about it while he is Speaker. 
I second the nomination of my friend, the honourable member for Scullin, a man of great resource and infinite capacity. In fact, there is some resemblance between the two candidates for this position. They are both competent. They both have capacity. My friend from Scullin is a man of infinite capacity and the right honourable member for Bruce is capable of anything. The honourable member for Scullin chaired the inquiry into the committee system. He has given his guarantee that he brings to the task of  Speaker  attitudes to parliament which we all want to see carried on. I remind honourable members that when we make the decision about who is to chair this House, the  Speaker  takes the Chair in one of the more vulnerable legislative institutions in the democratic world. We are under constant threat. We may be dissolved at the caprice of the Governor-General. We have seen it happen. We can be repeatedly strangled- it has happened to both sides of the Parliament- by the Senate and we can be disposed of at the whim of the Prime Minister who can truncate the term of the Parliament. Therefore, we want in the Chair a person who understands and knows what democracy is about. 
Both candidates came up the hard way. They worked hard. They achieved high academic distinction. The honourable member for Scullin is a Master of Science and holds the qualification M.B., B.S. He is a man who brings to this Parliament 17 years of experience in two parliaments. He brings to it the experience of belonging to a democratic political party which at least ensures that we will not be trampled on. He has a single vote in a party which respects the right of individuals to have their say. The great disadvantage that my friend the right honourable member for Bruce brings to the candidature is the fact that he is a pan of one of the more undemocratic parliamentary parties in what is termed the Western world. 
-The honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is on the right track for once. As long as he stays on points of procedure and keeps away from politics he will do all right. If in the past he had been brought into contact with Australian rules football, he could have suggested that we have a time-off provision. The time taken from a member's speech because of the calling of quorums or some other behaviour of that nature could be added to the member's speaking time. That may be a solution. 
I want to raise with the House for the moment the impossibility of fitting the business of this Parliament into the present days and hours of meeting. We must discuss how we can adjust the meetings of the House to the business before it and take account of the requirements of our electorates and all the other things which make the life of a federal member particularly inconvenient. By the time a member travels to this place, gets things sorted out here and tries to get back to his home and to his electorate he finds he is faced with an impossible task. We certainly make it impossible for us to handle the business of this Parliament- a modern Australian Parliament- by our choice of the days of meeting. I refer in particular to Standing Order 40 and to other provisions which are not in the Standing Orders which require the House to be called together. 
I want to raise three things to put the arithmetic on the record. First of all I refer to the actual days of meeting. In the last 10 years we have met, on average, 68 days a year. In the first 20 years of Federation the Parliament met for more than 100 days on four occasions. In fact in 1920 it met for 1 14 days. The highest number of days that we have met since that time is 92 days in 1947. Gradually the number of sitting days has diminished and settled somewhere in the 60 to 70 mark. It is quite obvious that such a number of sitting days will not meet the present requirements of this Parliament. 
The hours of meeting have been reduced. In 1901 Parliament met for 806 hours. That is reasonable, I suppose. In 1920 it met for 842 hours. In the 1920s the minimum number of hours per year was 389, and the maximum 646; in the 1930s the number of hours varied from 257 to 646; in the 1940s from 402 to 796; in the 1950s from 460 to 803; and in the 1960s from 530 to 710. No matter how much more work we crowd into the program we still try to handle it in the same number of hours or thereabouts. This will not work. We all know that. 
Let us look at the legislative program. In the first 20 years about 40 Bills a year were handled. In 1940, 101 Bills were handled-the first time that the number of Bills handled by the Parliament rose above the century. The number of Bills then dropped back to the 70 or 80 mark, until in 1965 it rose to 168. In 1973, 253 Bills were handled; in 1974, 236 Bills; in 1975, 215 Bills; and in 1976, 230 Bills. Last year 164 Bills were dealt with, the sitting time being truncated by the election. Those figures refer only to the amount of legislation but take no note of the fact that in recent times we have not been able to fit in discussions on ministerial statements or general matters of policy. I have been a member since 1 955 and during the first - 
-Yes, but fortunately about 39,000 people in my electorate say I still ought to be here. Only 12,000 or 15,000 say the honourable member ought to be here. That is a fair indication of rights and truth and of what is fit, neat and proper in Australian politics. Once it was quite usual for us to have several days discussing foreign policy statements, tariff proposals, general principles or matters of any sort before the Parliament. 
I am on the Standing Orders Committee. I am putting a proposition to  Mr Speaker  that we should meet as frequently as possible to discuss these general matters. I suggest to the House that if we want to fit in, say, 100 days of parliamentary sittings a year- the arithmetic is simple- it could be 20 weeks at 5 days a week, 25 weeks at 4 days a week, 33 weeks at 3 days a week or so on. One of the great difficulties we impose on ourselves is not so much the days and hours of meeting but the number of weeks we do not meet. There are lots of reasons for that. We could arrange a time-table so that in February, March, April and May we make a fairly consistent attack on parliamentary work. The same applies to August, September, October and November. Two months are clear before the beginning of the Autumn session, that is December and January, and another two months are clear in the middle of the year, that is June and July. We could regularise that time-table. 
I make an appeal to the House, to  Mr Speaker  and through him, with due deference, to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair).  A lot of factors are involved apart from the convenience of members. There are all the matters on which the Australian Broadcasting Commission has to decide. There are the many other factors which go into the functions behind this Parliament. Principally I make the appeal that we start to bring some regular system into the days and times of meeting and that we get to work to reduce the pressures upon us to rush legislation through at the end of each session. It will not work. Apart from that, we should bring forward the inquiry into the committee system to examine some ways in which we can carry on simultaneously two, three or four different parts of the parliamentary function so that we can make the place a parliament instead of just a processing machine. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I will attend to a number of points to which the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  referred. First of all I refer to the question of taking an issue seriously. One of the great problems that this country faces is trying to take this Government seriously. How can one take its attitude to defence seriously when it has been busy dismantling the shipbuilding industry and has given most of Australian industry a very severe knock? How can one take its foreign policy seriously? I can understand the honourable member's attitude. He has come here from Europe in recent years, although he has been in Australia a good while now. For the last 30 years the members of the Government parties have been building up a terror of Russia. 
The Russians were coming! In fact this goes back to the last century. Some of the forts around Sydney Harbour were built in the 1 860s to keep the Russians out. I think that is why Victoria established its Navy and bought the  Cerberus  and so on. 
-That is right. We have always had Russians ready to descend upon us. A few years ago, about the time of the Vietnam conflict, it was not the Russians who were coming; it was the Chinese. They were just to the north somewhere. They were the threat from the north. People asked: 'Where will we stop it?' The great problem the honourable member for Holt faces and we face is to try to get some serious concentration from the Government on the facts of life in world affairs. My heart goes out to honourable members as they try to understand the aberrations of my friends opposite. This is a question I hope will be debated adequately in this Parliament before too long. The honourable member for Holt referred to the state of the Parliament. I agree with most of the things that my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said. I refer to the matters to which you refer. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, will you pass the message to the honourable member for Holt that I am referring to a subject to which he referred- overseas travel. I have sent a message to my colleagues in this Parliament. After all, we have a communion of interest in some things. The Remuneration Tribunal took up the matter of overseas travel, which had been suspended by our friend,  Senator Withers,  upon his appointment to the Ministry in charge of that at the beginning of 1976. As I understand it, the honourable senator, having used up all his own travel funds, immediately abolished the funds for other members as soon as he came into a position of power. He referred the matter to the Remuneration Tribunal, which is gradually getting around to considering it again. 
I made provision during the recess to visit the New Hebrides. Having made the arrangements to visit there and having made all the bookings, I applied to the Australian Capital Territory Travel Bureau for the tickets to be made available. The Bureau was advised by the Department of Administrative Services that funds were not available because they were suspended from the time of the issue of the writs until the time the 
Parliament reassembled. When I was informed of this, it was a little late in the day. We had already booked the seats, I had packed my toothbrush and we were ready to go. I am also a little reluctant to allow a government, even this one, to stop me from going wheresoever I will, even if I have to pay for the trip myself. 
I contacted the various departments. I was referred to the Department of Administrative Services. I got on to the Minister's office and I was told: 'We referred your request to the Attorney-General'. I got on to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  and found that he had sent it to the Department. It sifted down through the system and somewhere along the line somebody said: 'The determination really means that funds are suspended from the issue of the writs until the reassembly of Parliament'. One young man assured me that they were actually the words of the determination. I soldiered on for 24 hours arguing about that. Then amongst my records I managed to find a copy of the determination. I turned it up. It did not say it quite like that at all. I should have got on to my friend and technical and legal adviser, a man like the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown),  who would have been able to sort it out. I am a simple soul. I went to school and learnt the same sort of English as the rest of us, but apparently people in the AttorneyGeneral's Department learnt it differently. According to the report of the Remuneration Tribunal other benefits or resources at the disposal of honourable members are restored to them after their re-election. I sent a communication to the three members of the Tribunal at their home addresses. I received an acknowledgment from the  Chairman,  who said he would contact the others. Obviously the wheels rolled on and he contacted the Minister. By this time, of course, I had paid the $800 fare for my wife and myself and taken myself off to the New Hebrides. When I came home I wrote to our friendly Minister for Administrative Services and said that I could do with a refund. He replied with his normal glowing eloquence. 
-That is right.  His  reply went like this: 'In response to your telegram, the  Chairman  of the Tribunal has advised me that it was to be implied that the travel rights of members would be restored upon their reelection to the Parliament'. In other words, either on the declaration of the poll or on the night of the election, when in Wills I had what might be called a handy lead, it would be said that a member was in business again and his rights would be restored. But the Minister said: 'I have referred this question to the Attorney-General's Department'. He had by-passed the AttorneyGeneral by this time, giving him up as a bad job- and I do not blame him for that. He said: 'Really, that is not a determination'. I will send all honourable members a copy of what he said. One of the most disheartening aspects of this Parliament is that when members who become Ministers- after all, they are members of Parliament first and they are Ministers second- make a ruling or determination on behalf of the rest of us they do it to our disadvantage. 
I think there is a great feeling in this Parliament, as there is in the community itself, that it is time that something were done about straightening out the way in which we run this part of the system. I am very much afraid that we backbenchers are becoming irrelevant, not because of the institution itself but because of the way in which we run it. It is one of the last real strongholds of authoritarianism. The Public Service is pretty hierarchical and authoritarian, and this Parliament is even more so. It is up to us to get together and do something about it by some means or another. As I have asked honourable members previously, what is wrong with us that we allow a small minority of members to rule us in this way? After all, their writs run only as a response to the responsibilities that we have imposed upon them. 
-That is right; they do not and they will not. Let me turn to the matter before the House, namely the Address-in-Reply debate. In this debate one can cover the whole range of human endeavour, if one wishes to do so. It is, of course, a happy hunting time for the current political and economic mythology. We have heard that from many honourable members opposite, including my friend the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  For instance, the honourable member for Lilley said something about the great benefits Labor proposed be given to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd as a result of our proposed payroll tax deductions. I ask him: What about the oil pricing policy and a few other policies of that nature of his Party? 
However, the honourable member did raise a couple of questions of great interest. What is a reasonable level of taxation? It is my view that the Australian people will pay almost any amount in taxation if they see what they are getting for their money. But that is one of the great problems of democracy. I come from the Stone Age State of Victoria. It has some aspects which make Queensland look fairly progressive. I have lived in areas in which the streets are private. I have had great difficulty in trying to explain this concept to people who come from areas north of the Murray. When streets are made, the local council does not make them at its expense; it makes them at the expense of the budding owner. I recall that when the streets were made in the area where we lived five or six years back the bill for the Bryants was $3,600. That amount was taken from us in quarterly payments over ten years. It is a fairly substantial sum. Some of the other people in the street were pensioners, but their bills were not quite that much. We lived in an area in which the normal house frontage was 90 or 100 feet. The cost of putting in the roads for the individual house owner could be up to $2,000. Although that caused a great deal of hardship to many people, they all fronted up because they could see what it was all about. They could not see any alternative. 
The point is, of course, that while the system is idiotic the Australian community will, if provided with a fair measure of understanding, front up to taxation and regard it as a payment for something which is to their advantage. I think that we have to begin to re-educate the community and perhaps to re-educate ourselves on the whole taxation system. We have to take out of it the idiocy of so much indirect taxation. As for me, I would just as soon receive my taxation bill at the end of the financial year. When the Treasurer, whoever he may be, has made a mess of the public accounts and the Budget deficit in meeting the cost of paying out unemployment benefits and all other charges to the revenue is $30,000m, the Government would say to a taxpayer: 'Your share comes to $13,236.32.' If by paying taxation directly in that manner we abolished sales tax and all the other idiotic charges we impose such as tax on cheques and so on, I would be all for that system. I believe that, if a long-term campaign were conducted, we could get most Australians to face up to it. We would have to face the fact, of course, that it would be very difficult for us to overcome some of the difficulties in the taxation system such as those implied in the capital gains tax and so on. I think we have to develop a philosophy of taxation which is different from the one which presently prevails in this country. 
A few other remarks have been made during the debate today on which I shall not dwell now. 
The Governor-General said in his Speech that government spending had been brought under control. I do not quite know what he means by that. If we look at the figures taken out at the end of each December over the last five years or so we find that the deficit in 1973 was $ 1,800m, in 1974 it was $2, 100m, in 1975 it was $3,700m-it was increasing even under our reign- in 1976 it increased to $4,300m and in 1977 it was $4, 100m. There is no evidence whatsoever to suggest that the present Government is any better at controlling that aspect of the system than it is at controlling any other aspect. 
One should note several other points of the current mythology. One is concerned with the state of the economy in 1975 when the present Government came into office. Of course, the Australian economy was one of the strongest in the world at that time. On the whole the Australian people were doing better than almost anybody else in the world. I have worked out what one could buy with one's average weekly earnings in particular years. The average weekly earnings increased from $93 in 1972, to $159 in 1975 and to $191 in 1977. It is instructive to work out how many loaves of bread and items of that nature one could buy with the average weekly earnings. For instance, in 1972 the purchasing power of average weekly earnings could buy 372 loaves of bread; in 1975 it could buy 420 loaves of bread; and in 1977 the number of loaves of bread dropped to 374. In the case of tea, the purchasing power of average weekly earnings in 1972, 1975 and 1977 could buy 140 lbs of tea, 190 lbs of tea and 95 lbs of tea respectively. 
I have here similar comparisons in relation to rump steak, bricks, electricity and motor cars. For instance, in 1972 a person worked 24 weeks to earn the price of a Mini motor vehicle; he worked 20 weeks in 1975; and he was back to working 24 weeks in 1977. The only commodity with which a person did better was that of overseas travel. The only way one could make any progress with this Government was to leave the country. That kind of arithmetic is very carefully obscured throughout the country and during any consideration of the economy. Production throughout Australia was high when this Government took office. Of course, it is a fact of life that the production capacity of the community has overrun the consumer needs of the community. Our export earnings were higher than our import costs; our production was greater than the rate at which we exported commodities. Our policies had won better terms for our producers in most overseas markets. We had high overseas reserves. I ask honourable members opposite to give some specific example of the way in which the country is better off now than it was in December 1975. 1 do not want to hear some airy fairy nonsense about a reduction in inflation and that son of thing. 
I thought everybody was proud of and pleased with me. 
-That is right. I did a good job for everybody else. I did have trouble with the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I remember that the Labor Government bought a building in his electorate for the purpose of establishing a hostel for the Aboriginal people of Australia, the original inhabitants of this country. What happened? The honourable member for Fadden, who was then the honourable member for Griffith, stirred up the citizens. He said: 'Look what this fellow is doing to you. He is going to allow Aboriginal people to live amongst you on your land'. I called at the hostel one Saturday morning. An enormous crowd of people was there shouting at us and telling us to take it away. They were led by the honourable member. The honourable gentleman's behaviour was disgraceful. 
One of the other parts of the mythology is concerned with the incompetence of the Labor Government and the general competence of this Government. The Labor Government made more than 4,000 cabinet decisions. Some of them were concerned with quite minor matters, of course, such as the appointment of people in a temporary capacity to head departments. Others were concerned with matters of great moment, such as the Moomba to Sydney pipeline. Those people who are interested in defence will recall the decision to order the Leopard tanks and the conclusion of the Fl 1 1 deal and so on. There were lots of other matters which were of great moment and part of that decision making apparatus. If honourable members opposite were to go through the records they would not find one of them in relation to which they could lay the charge of incompetence, corruption or anything else. There were some decisions with which I disagreed; that would be logical enough. There would be some with which honourable members opposite may have agreed or disagreed. But the charge of incompetence for the way in which members of that Ministry administered their own affairs or the affairs of their departments could not be laid at their door. 
Now let us consider the record of the present Government. Let us consider for a moment the situation in relation to Medibank- one of the most fantastic muddles of all time after the present Government started to fool around with it in 1976. The actual Medibank system was one of the great administrative creations of the time. Millions of transactions were taking place and the whole thing was running like a charm. The Government started to fool around with it. Honourable members on the other side of the House supported the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in doing so and now we are left with something - 
That the House do now adjourn. 
I have only a few minutes remaining in which to speak. But I think that it should be enough time for me to dispose of some of the catalogue of calamities espoused by Government supporters this morning. I want to take a few moments to raise one question which is before the community consistently and to examine it in perhaps a different way. I refer to the relative level of profits and wages in the community and the relative rights of industry to the measure of profit which should be returned to it. On what basis should we calculate profits? They can be calculated on the basis of paid-up capital. They can be calculated on the basis of shareholders ' funds or assets. I suppose that a retailing business would try to calculate profits on the basis of turnover. This can make profit look smaller and smaller because ordinarily turnover is such a relatively larger figure. 
I want to present to the House some arithmetic I have done on the basis of profit per employee, something which the arbitral authorities do not seem to have considered in any way. I will give five examples- two involving capital intensive companies and three involving labour intensive companies. I will start with our friend, the charitable organisation known as Utah Mining Australia Ltd. Its profit before tax amounted to $365.2m. The company employs 2,851 employees. Therefore it makes a profit of $128,146 per annum per employee. That is a profit of $2,464 a week or $62 an hour per employee. This is the company that is trying to chisel the seamen out of their wages. 
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd made a profit of $ 182.9m. It employs 16,600 employees. Therefore it makes a profit of $11,023 per annum, $2 12 per week or $5.12 an hour per employee. I will now deal with the labour intensive industries. The State Savings Bank of Victoria- it is a great time for money lenders- made a profit of $27. 7m. It employs 6,134 employees. Therefore, it made a profit of $4,5 1 7 per annum per employee. That represents a profit of $87 a week or $2.70 per hour per employee. The Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd made a profit of $79.9m, and employs 21,179 employees. That represents a profit of $3,588 per annum, $69 a week or $1.75 an hour per employee. Myer Ltd, one of the largest employers of labour, made a profit of $78.4m. The company employs 29,498 people. It made a profit of $2,662 per annum, $5 1 a week or $ 1 .2 1 an hour per employee. Yet these companies have the hide to appear before the arbitration commission to try to chisel their employees out of another $2, $3 or $4 a week in increased wages. I think that one of the issues before us is the consistent reduction in the living standards of the people of Australia who do the work and make the profits. I have presented a simple and fundamental piece of arithmetic which never seems to be placed before members of the public, the arbitration commissions or this Parliament. I place it before honourable members today for their serious consideration so that they can see the injustices which are being perpetrated upon the people who are responsible for the productivity and progress of the country. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware of the difficulties being imposed upon the people of the New Hebrides by the failure of the French and British Governments to create a viable legislative assembly and to take effective steps towards self-government for the Territory? Is he aware that the major political party in the Islands, the Vanu Aku Party, withdrew from the November election because of this and that there is a rising tide of tension in the Islands? Will the Minister use whatever strength of persuasion Australia can muster with the French and British authorities to have a new constitution drafted granting adequate powers of self-government to the local people with new elections to be held as soon as practicable? Will he point out to the administering governments that they are creating a potential trouble spot in our region and that their continuing administration of the territory is an anachronism? 
I take up the theme that I heard this morning- I think it was the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  who raised it- of the effect of wages upon inflation and the very desirable characteristics that would flow to the rest of the community if one could keep reducing wages to the point at which they vanished. The logical deduction from what he said would seem to be that inflation would also vanish. The interesting point is that the members of this Parliament are very keen to see that other people's wages are depressed while, in proper honesty, accepting their just dues when tribunals decide the amount to which they think they would like to be accustomed. 
I do not regard this as a dangerous theme. I think that everybody in this community is entitled to a fair return for the work that they undertake. With some assistance from my friend the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  I must say, with regard to honourable members opposite and assessing the remuneration that they should receive, that I am prepared to support the principle of mercy rather than justice where they are concerned. 
I want to deal with what is happening to the work force in Australia. One of the most insidious campaigns conducted for many years is the attack upon the real wage structure of Australia which has meant a consistent reduction in the living standards of the Australian people, the people in the work force who produce everything which we use. I cannot understand how anybody with any morality, including the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Cabinet, can support this principle. I cannot understand what is wrong with the people of Australia that they wear this in any way; that there is not an instant revolt of revulsion against the decision of the Commission that came down yesterday. Of the last nine times on which the Commission has made a decision, eight decisions have been based on the assumption that the Commission should reduce the standard of living of people in the work force of Australia. 
We are living in a community in which productivity is continually increasing. There is no doubt about the fact that the country is able to produce everything it needs with fewer people than ever before and it is a libel upon the work force to state, as has been stated often, that it will not do a fair day's work for Customs fair day's pay. I have statistics which I have worked out at various times which show exactly how in almost every area of human endeavour productivity has Customs over and above the number of people employed. I do not have time this evening to elaborate on those statistics but other people can do the arithmetic or I can make continual speeches on the subject knowing full well that there are a lot of slow learners in this place and I might have to keep that practice up every night. 
It is interesting to note the way in which business corporations wring their hands about the serious state in which they find themselves. I have been doing some arithmetic on the return per employee. I know that businesses can decide their profit basis on return on capital, on assets, on capital funds employed in the business and so on. Generally speaking, the way in which businesses calculate profit is based upon the least favourable arithmetic as far as the size of the percentage profit is concerned. Let us take a rather different view of how the profit ought to be determined. 
I refer to profit per employee and use as an example the banking system which has a high labour content. As far as I can see, profit before tax per employee, as shown in the last annual report of the Australia and New Zealand Bank, was $5,1 16. 1 guess that would be 70 per cent or 80 per cent of the actual wages paid to each employee; it is $98 a week. For the Bank of New South Wales the profit per employee is $7,255 per annum or $135 per employee a week. So it goes on. If we look at the relationship between paid up capital and the actual profit, the paid up capital of the Australia and New Zealand Bank is $65 and the Bank made a profit of $97m. It does not tell the world that it made a profit of $150m. Profits are based upon assets which are in the thousand million dollar class, if I remember rightly. 1 believe that this Government is pursuing a sinister and iniquitous program. I only hope that the community will realise what is happening. The rich are getting richer. The principal producers of goods and services in this country are being continuously deprived and I think it is a most disgraceful economic exercise. 
I do not oppose the motion. As we are about to re-appoint eight very important  committees,  I ask that we give serious consideration to the servicing of those committees and to supplying them with much greater resources to do their jobs properly. I have been a member of this Parliament long enough to know that to get a point across to the people on the front bench opposite I have to say it long, loud and clear and repeat it ad nauseam. Membership of a parliamentary committee is always an interesting exercise, but, as a challenge, one finds oneself totally devoid of the resources to do the job adequately. Some of the honourable members sitting on the front bench opposite have not had the advantage of serving on these committees. Of course, they have had the advantageto the disadvantage of the country- of being - 
-But the Minister for Transport never attended the meetings. I can speak to an informed person in the presence of the Minister for Transport. There is a difference between the resources he has at his disposal as a Minister and the resources available to a committee. Committees are the countervailing force in this Parliament. They are between what one might call the Executive and departmental government. We should pay critical attention to these matters. The committees will have to be given many more resources in the form of staff and other facilities if they are to work effectively. The re-appointment of these eight committees would simply become a charade if that were not done. I ask the  Ministery  in particular to pay some attention to this matter and to ensure that adequate moneys are appropriated to them in the next Budget.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I also ask you, as  Chairman  of Committees, to apply yourself to ensuring that adequate funds are made available in the next Budget for that to be done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-One section of the reference which intrigues me a bit- I am not too sure whether it was included in the Committee's reference in the last Parliament- is paragraph (2) which states: 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
I should have thought that the search for cooperation from the States was a laudable enterprise. However, I can think of one State where it is likely to be a very fruitless expedition. I hope that in the considerations of the Committee of which I was a member in the last Parliament- it was established in 1973 while 1 was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs- that the House will not let itself be inhibited in any way  and that the Committee members will not be inhibited in any way by the requirement that we recognise the responsibility of the States. In fact the States' responsibilities run second to the responsibilities of this Parliament. 
In 1967 there was a referendum on the issue of Aboriginal affairs. At that time the people of Australia said emphatically that the authority and responsibility for handling Aboriginal affairs in a satisfactory way rested with this Parliament. Most of Australia- to the tune of 90 per centhad said so at the referendum and there is no excuse whatsoever for avoiding our responsibilities. Therefore, I hope that the Committee, with this charter will get on with doing the job, regardless of whether or not the States are doing it. 
I make another appeal, as I did earlier, regarding the necessity to strengthen the resources available to this Committee and any of its subcommittees in the work that is done. The Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs is very demanding as far as travel is concerned. Most of the research on communities is carried out at the far ends of this continent. That involves a great deal of travel. It involves a great deal of sacrifice away from one 's home and electorate and everything else. I am sure it is time that many more resources were placed at the disposal of members who sit on these Committees regarding the way in which they work, where they go and the kinds of facilities that are available to them individually. 
I make the point to the House that I think the time has come when it is now possible to appoint one member to do something on many of these committees. There is no reason why the investigation of some point or other could not be carried out by one member. We are in the habit of appointing tribunals, which seems an odd name to apply to one person who carries out an investigation, or royal commissioners to investigate matters. I know that many of the activities of the previous Committee and certainly one or two of the other committees have been inhibited while we looked for at least three members to go somewhere and hold hearings or carry out an investigation. There is no reason at all why we should not change our Standing Orders in this regard. I hope that  Mr Speaker  will consider this, allow the Committee to nominate one member to carry out an investigation and ensure that he is adequately serviced with transport and all the rest of it. I hope we will start to loosen up about these matters. 
I make the point that I made earlier: I have been a Minister in a first class government which carried out a range of profitable activities for the country. I recognise how much easier it is for a Minister to attend to matters while people apply themselves to the policy side and the research side of parliamentary work. I think it is time we removed that disability from members of committees. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to:  That the question be now put.  Amendment negatived. Original question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
That the question be now put.  Amendment negatived. Original question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 

 -Mr Chairman, I wish to deal particularly with clause 9. Clause 9 is the one which gives the- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, we have been discussing a matter of important principle with regard to taxation. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
-I support the approach taken by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  in regard to the question of  Mr Milan  Brych which he has put before the House. I think we are too restrictive about so many things in a world in which there are great tragedies flowing from things such as cancer. We know little about its origins or anything else. It is not the Government's place to restrict people from at least discussing the subject or to restrict the gentleman involved from visiting this country and talking about it. What we do about the practice of medicine is, of course, a different question. I turn now to a much less significant matter, I suppose, but one which affects us all. Again it has to do with restrictions. It has to do with the security provisions that will now prevail around this Parliament. Today we all received a letter from the  Deputy  Usher of the Black Rod. It refers to the various sorts of things that will be done around Parliament House to protect us from various dangerous elements which might invade the place, including, obviously, the spouses of members. The letter states: 
Photographic passes will also be issued to Senators' and Members' spouses who come to the building frequently, if this is their wish. 
There is a form attached to the letter on which the senator or member can list his spouse 's name. What is the place coming to? Perhaps a case can be made for some form or other of security to stop people coming in here and throwing stones at us or putting bombs in the place or all the rest of it, but I am not sure that this proposal will help the situation. In fact I am pretty certain it will not. A lot of honourable members present were here during the period of the Vietnam demonstrations when the public galleries were full of people who were very angry with all of us, even those people on our side of the House who were, we thought, on their side. 
I think it is one of the elements of parliamentary democracy that that is one of the risks we have to take when we stand for public office. We have to be seen in public, we have to be accessible. Of all the institutions in this country, this one has to be accessible. It may well be that there are things that we should do around the corridors, the lobbies and so on to make sure that people do not get in there and do whatever damage they might. However, in the 20-odd years I have been in parliament no such thing has occurred. For heavens sake, can we not apply some common sense to this matter and get rid of the hysteria and start to grow up? There are enough attendants around this place to police everything. If they cannot be given documents or some sort of indication as to who are the members and who are their wives then somebody else ought to do the job. I find the attendants very competent, friendly and capable people. There is no need for what I can only refer to now as nonsense. 
The other day we gave certain support to the general idea regarding security. At the time it seemed that there might be something in the idea but now, when I see put down on paper exactly what it all means, I say that it is nonsense and that we ought to stop it forthwith. We ought to ask the wives to intervene. If we are going to stop the wives of members who have been coming to this place and have been walking freely around it for 20-odd years, it is time we took a look at ourselves or left this place and handed it over to somebody else. 
From the second matter I wish to raise tonight it will become apparent that we might as well do so. I refer to the behaviour in this place of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  He has turned this House into a parliament of puppets. The only contribution he makes to debate or to political development here is to apply the gag. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I am not reflecting on him, I am describing him. I wish to raise here tonight the general question of the measure of debate that takes place in this Parliament on public issues, important issues. As soon as the debate gets under way, almost inevitably, at the whim of the leadership on the Government side, the honourable member for Bendigo, exercising his authority on that side of the House, stands up and moves the gag - 
-This is the point that I am making,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I do not want to challenge you at this stage,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but surely one of the issues in the Parliament is that there is no freedom of debate. I will change what I said. Some anonymous person, some person who is a non-person and certainly a nonparliamentarian, enters this Parliament at the whim of the electors of one of the unknown electorates in this country and, at the caprice of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  who is again an unknown person, stops debate. I think it is a disgrace. There is no way in which the Parliament can operate in that way. With all the wisdom which flowed to you from the people who elected you to the office- these decisions now rest with you- the question I put to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is this: Can you tell me what is wrong with the people of Bendigo that they send him here? 
-There are several matters to which I wish to refer. Last night our esteemed colleague the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  had a few words to say about me. In referring to me I think he used the term 'old geriatric' or 'geriatric old '. 
I have no objection to the honourable member for Bendigo using either term. I do not care what he says but I do wish he would use the English language correctly with some respect for accuracy in using it. Tautological expressions might be all right when he is trying to describe a political situation to his advantage, but when he is describing me I ask him at least to attempt to use the English language correctly, although I do not expect him to be accurate. 
I want to refer to a matter which was raised by my honourable friend from Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  last Thursday night. It concerns the events of 1 1 November 1975. It might be useful if I place on the record the facts as one of the victims of that situation saw them at that time. First of all, how was the Governor-General treated by the Cabinet of which I was a member? He was always treated with the utmost courtesy and respect for his rank, office and responsibilities. On no single instance can I recall the Cabinet making an announcement of a decision which required the Governor-General's signature before he had signed. There was never any suggestion in any way that we would pre-empt his right to say yea or nay to matters to which he had to put his signature. On every occasion when the Executive Council met, when I and my colleagues went out to Government House to meet him, he was treated with great respect and friendliness. I always found him to be completely affable on those occasions. I want to put it on record that he was treated with absolute and unconditional respect from the moment he took up his appointment. My objection to his behaviour is to the way in which he treated every one of us on the day he dismissed the Australian Labor Party Government. Let us look at the position on 1 1 November 1975. In the first place, the Senate had before it for discussion the Budget. It had not made a decision. There was no way of knowing whether the Senate would make a positive or a negative decision. It had not made a decision. The country was still running. We had not run out of money. The necessary money to run the country for another three weeks until 30 November was in the bin, to use a colloquialism. There was no suggestion that we were breaching any law or any procedure. 
I have said often here and I am fortified in my belief that, when one is dealing with slow learners, one has to be completely repetitive. The facts were that the Senate's position had not been resolved, the money supply had not run out and the Governor-General had not discussed the matter with the then Government. What should he have done? The Governor-General is the  President  of the Executive Council. Under Labor's system all the Ministers are members of the Executive Council and the Governor-General works on the advice of his Ministers. Once he had become aware of the great difficulties that might have arisen from the situation he should have consulted the Executive Council by convening a full meeting of it. He did not do that. 
-The honourable member for Dundas says that we would have sacked him. How could we have done that? He should have consulted us. We should have placed the options before him and he should have placed the options before us. 1 take strong objection to the Governor-General's behaviour. Without any indication, and without any subsequent communication to us, he threw us aside as if we were dirty old clothes. I believe that his action was dishonourable, discourteous and irresponsible. It sowed the seeds of the destruction of the parliamentary system. The right honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  now the Prime Minister, when he took office against the vote of confidence in the House, acted in treason against the parliamentary system. All those on that side who supported him are guilty of that offence. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that in his letter to the Prime Minister,  Mr Moyes  of IBM Australia Ltd - 
Government supporters- Oh! 
I am not surprised that honourable members opposite are shocked. Is it a fact that in his letter to the Prime Minister dated 2 December 1977  Mr Moyes  of IBM Australia Ltd said: 
I urge you to take special steps to ensure that the responsibility for this decision is taken at the highest level within the Government. 
Does the fact that the Prime Minister personally intervened in the tendering process after receiving  Mr Moyes'  letter mean that he regards the advice of senior business executives to be of greater worth than that received from senior public servants? Further, is it the usual practice of the Prime Minister to have personal telephone conversations with specially favoured tenderers about contracts in which they are involved? 
-The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  must have been announcing the resignation of the Government when he said that we are going to have stable, sensible and progressive government. From my personal observation he is a very good farmer- I do not know that the word 'successful' is the word to use about farmers these days- but it is a pity he is so poor at politics. Nevertheless, some of his observations are worthy of a good deal of consideration. I know there is deepseated feeling in the community about wages and I too will raise a few points about that as I go along. However, I must say that I am not with him on the subject of whales. I suppose logically that one could say that while we do not want to kill whales we do not mind eating his sheep. This is an emotional area and is something to which we have to pay some attention because if we destroy the whaling industry the town of Albany will suffer substantially. There does not seem to be any creative energy around in this Government, and even less in the State Government of Western Australia, to find solutions to problems when they arise. We live in a world in which technology is releasing people from drudgery, but, unfortunately, only into misery and into a society in which they are unwanted. We have to do something about this. The Opposition's complaint, which is expressed in the amendment it has moved, is that the Government is doing nothing about it. I suppose the GovernorGeneral's Speech expresses the Government's view of the aspirations of the Australian people. In fact the Governor-General said:   the basic direction of the Government's policies reflects their aspirations and interests. 
If that is so, they must be very dull people indeed, because I regard the Speech as a very dismal dossier. There was no announcement in the Governor-General's Speech of policies for Australian industry, the work force, Aboriginal people, migrants, youth and, most importantlythis seems to be at the heart of the economic debate- the public sector, which supplies so much of the background and muscle of the country. 
I fear that we are now in the hands of the absolutists, the theoreticians, who take a more theoretical view of the economy than commonsense view of what is happening to people. For instance, we talk with almost bated breath about interest rates. The other day I heard the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  say that if the deficit increased interest rates must increase. 
I have heard that said quite often but I have examined the deficits and interest rates in various countries and I do not see any necessary correlation. There may be a correlation but I cannot find anything in the documents to prove it. We are living in a world of abstractions. We hear it stated that if the Government's deficit increases inflation will rise. What is the proof of that? Honourable members may, if they wish, look at the figures; go to the reports of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and turn to the charts at the back; see the figures for the 20 member countries and how they are related to expenditure, productivity and all sorts of things. They may look at other reports but they will not be able to find a statistical correlation. 
We are living in a world in which the economists give us absolute answers. A medical practitioner, who may have a great deal of skill, is never absolutely certain that he can make someone better. There is a chance that the person will have a good funeral. A lawyer will say that, by taking on a case, he might win or lose. He may suggest that the person seek a second opinion. An educationalist may say the same thing. But unfortunately economists give absolute answers. We are told that if we spend too much money on the public sector we are milking it from the private sector and that all sons of dreadful things will happen. I cannot find any relationship between the money supply, the deficit, inflation or anything else of comparable countries. One Minister spoke this afternoon about overseas capital and said that we must encourage it. Australia has a national inferiority complex about capital. I think that the classic example is General MotorsHolden's Ltd. All it did was borrow some money from the Commonwealth Bank and proceed from there to expand. I do not think that it brought in a large amount of capital, if it brought in any at all. 
I am worried that there is no effective examination of the resources behind the system- the resources of people, skills, materials and manufacturing capacity. I do not know how we can make people or governments examine these resources, the enormous wealth around us and the great potential that we have to enjoy the good things of modern society which technology is providing for us. I think that a number of issues will cause a great deal of social disarray in the community. The first one with which I shall deal is the wages policy. The honourable member for Forrest mentioned the difficulties that are created by high wages and said that a case might be made out for a reduction in or the removal of the minimum wage. I do not think that this should be tolerated. One of the lessons we have learned in recent years is that our community is an integrated community. Everybody, whether his work is skilled or unskilled, is important. The physical or intellectual capacity of everybody, whether he is a professional person or the most lowly worker, is important. If the garbage men stop work it is not long before the community suffers a great deal of hardship. If a handful of railway men stop work all the trains stop. If the telecommunications people stop work or throw a few switches here and there Australia grinds to a halt in a few hours. I do not think that we recognise the integrated nature of society and the importance of each individual. 
In Australia increasingly we aspire to equality of wages. I cannot justify in any way the current process by which the work force is having its share of the wealth that it produces reduced consistently, both proportionately and absolutely. This is a most inequitable and unjust political procedure. I cannot understand why the people of Australia are putting up with it. We are living today in a totally new world. We have not arrived at a conclusion about what is a fair day's work or a fair day's pay, particularly a fair day's pay in relation to somebody else 's pay. The wage levels in Australia have shown less disparity than they have in other parts of the world. Top salaries in Australia are not very many times more than the average weekly earnings. That is the kind of society in which I want to live. 
We have to produce an economic structure which gives access to the products of modern society to all the people in the community. That facility is available. It is possible for everybody, rich or poor, to have that facility as long as we adjust the relative salaries and wages in the community. In the days of Elizabeth I, 370 or 380 years ago, the people who were the aristocracy had clean clothes of rich cloth but these were obtained at the expense of countless thousands of people who were exploited and given a minimal return for their labour. These days we can all have such things because we have a high quality of production available to everybody as a result of technology. The same applies to luxuries and the cultural processes. We can all listen to the State orchestra at dinner time. Elizabeth I and the people around her could listen to fine music and now, as a result of technology, we can all do so. Our objective ought to be to bring these advantages to everybody in the community. 
There has been a reduction in the share of wealth going to the work force, and this cannot be tolerated. The figures can be produced. Every hearing before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission produces further injustice and inequity. As a result, a great deal of dissatisfaction will be expressed by industrial action and by people dropping out of society, refusing to work for low wages. Honourable members opposite should do some arithmetic instead of talking about high wages causing a great deal of worry to business. If they did so they would know exactly what sort of returns employers are getting per employee. I have cited these figures before but it does not hurt to remind honourable members of them. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd made $5, 1 16 per annum profit before tax per employee, or $98 per week; the Bank of New South Wales $7,255 per annum, or $135 per week; the Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd $5,726 per annum, or $110 per week; and the National Bank of Australasia Ltd $7,487 per annum, or $144 per week. Is that share going to the proprietors depriving other people of their capacity to work? 
The fundamental question facing the Government is how to create work. The Opposition put forward the suggestion in its amendment that the Government should create in the ultimate 400,000 new jobs. How will it do that? It is chasing rainbows to think that the private sector will produce those jobs. There is only one way in which it can happen and that is through the activities of government itself. As I said before, the muscle and backbone of Austalian Industry are government supplied. It is the governments in Australia that establish the main basis of industry. The power supplies, with electricity grids throughout eastern Australia reaching into almost every home, farm and factory; the gas supplies that exist in the major cities; an the transport systems are almost all government created. They are almost all parts of the public sector. They are the only parts of the economy which we can expand. 
There is no possibility of the private sector expanding. Why should it? It could take up another 20 per cent of demand and almost all sections of Australian manufacturing industry could play a part in that without having to put in new plant or to construct new buildings. No matter whether one is talking about the giants of industry, such as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, or the hundreds of small factories to be found in the electorates of most of us, if an order were put in they could meet it simply by putting on another worker, by increasing the amount of overtime worked, by engaging in shift work, or by other means. Australian industry is running at perhaps between 60 per cent and 70 per cent capacity. 
There would have to be an enormous increase in demand before any real impact is made on employment. The only way in which demand can be created- I think this is the challenge to the monetarists- is by government activity. Perhaps we could set out on a program of rehabilitating the Australian railways system. We have just had introduced into the House the Australian National Railways Amendment Bill which seeks to amend the Australian National Railways Act. I think there are something like 25,000 or 26,000 miles of railway track in Australia, extending from the far north of Queensland to north of Perth in Western Australia; it runs through every community. Perhaps the railway system is the major means by which we could give effect to energy conservation. It is not hard to do the arithmetic on what would be the annual saving on petrol if, say, an extra train a day were to run between Melbourne and Sydney. I drive from Melbourne to Canberra fairly often. I think an average diesel train will use about 1,000 gallons of diesel fuel to pull approximately 1,000 tons of freight from Melbourne to Sydney. How many semi-trailers would be required to haul that same volume of freight? 
I am absolutely certain that unless we apply our minds to expanding those areas of the public sector which need to be expanded and those areas of the private sector which can absorb more staff, such as the housing industry, we have no hope of creating more employment. In the years ahead it may well be that we will be able to do something about the system so that we work perhaps 30 hours a week or so that people can take more time off or so that some people, who are prepared to do so, can go through life without having effective work to do, just as so many of the aristocracy did once upon a time. We all belong to a society which produced the work ethic. We all might suffer from an energy crisis sometimes when we have to get out of bed and go to work. But we have to find a way by which people can find satisfactory work in the community. If we do not do so, we will create social destruction. 
I appeal to every member of this Parliament to begin to examine the methodology of the monetarists, the structure of budgeting and the way in which resources can be taken out of banks and put into projects such as at the Belconnen Mall. That has just been done to the tune of about $30m, with only two per cent or three per cent of it being public funds. We should see whether we can apply that concept to every sector of the economy which is in absolute need, whether it be farms, housing, railways, public schools or private schools. An enormous number of work opportunities are available. All we lack is the wit- not so much the will- to be able to produce a system which does something about the situation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Whilst the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  might not show a great deal of political perception, at least when he speaks about bold initiatives associated with this Government he shows a vivid imagination. I want to speak about something which might be called contemporary generational equity, that is, the situation of the Aboriginal people of Australia and the lands to which they ought to be heir. I congratulate the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  for the humanity which they are demonstrating to people overseas, to refugees and to the people of Israel. But it is time we started also to remember that there are people in this community who are being seriously disadvantaged by the continuing failures of this Government to take up the challenge of the plight of the Aboriginal people of Australia. Nothing demonstrates that better than the situation of the people of Aurukun and the people of Mornington Island. I watched the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  on television tonight. It is one of the things I suffer for the benefit of my further education. I am filled with despair at the complacency with which he approaches his task. 
I remind the House of some of the history of this matter. It is now 2 1 years since members of this House presented petitions urging that something be done about the Aboriginal people of Australia and moved urgency motions dealing with their continual deprivation. It is 11 years since a referendum was passed in which 90 per cent of the people of Australia voted yes and said that we should get on with the job. It is five years since the Labor Government appointed a Royal Commissioner to look into land rights. That has since been universally accepted in Australia as a matter of public and governmental concern. What is this Government doing about it? It is doing almost nothing. Some of my colleagues on this side of the House think that because the Minister said tonight that he would think about legislation- and he will take his time about iteventually he will do something about it. I remind honourable members of the fate of the land rights legislation which was passed by this House and which was then sent to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. If Government supporters think that acting after 21 years or 1 1 years or five years is acting too quickly, they might turn to the prescriptions of George III- not a notable revolutionary- who set out in 1763 the rights of the Indian people to the lands of Northern Canada. 
What is the situation? The Commonwealth unreservedly has the power to act on behalf of the people of Aurukun and the people of Mornington Island in the face of the mischief making and malevolence of the Queensland Government. It has two things going for it in this regard. First of all there is the 1967 amendment to the Constitution which removed the disabilities imposed upon the Government in making laws for the Aboriginal people of Australia. Then there is placitum (xxxi.) to section 5 1 of the Constitution of Australia which gives the Government the power to acquire the property of a State or of a person on just terms or anything for which the Commonwealth may make laws. There is no excuse for dalliance or delay. Let us get on with it. What is the problem? The Minister is afraid of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  He is afraid of the National Country Party because the House is infested with them. We know that they affect the Cabinet and the deliberations of this country. The Minister is afraid of the mining companies, as are all Government supporters. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  talks about Australia. He is trying to get rid of it as quickly as he can at about sixpence a ton. 
-That is right. You are turning the place into a quarry. The Minister is afraid of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  When we speak of Aboriginal affairs we are full of platitudes and it is time to get on with the job. The situation of the Aboriginal people of Australia remains a continuing disgrace. The Labor Government did as much as it could and it had support from people from all sides of the Parliament and from all around the country. Unfortunately the restraints that this Government has applied to public expenditure have had a serious effect upon Aboriginal advancement. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is here tonight. I hope he will - 
-He might be good, he might be a Treasurer, but he is certainly not a good Treasurer. The problem, of course, is that he does not have the intellectual nerve to challenge the situation in which we find ourselves. He is living in the past as are all Government supporters. The Aboriginal people are the victims of 190 years of the past misbehaviour and malevolence of people such as honourable members on the other side of the House. I ask those members who are interested in the Timor situation, the refugees from South East Asia and the people of the Middle East to remember that in this country there is a job still to be done. Let us get on with it. There are a number of members who have spent a good deal of time travelling around the country looking at this problem. I can only say that as I see it all I become filled with indignation. As I hear the Minister speaking in pious terms I am filled with despair. I can only appeal to this House to help us to get on with the job. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-To begin with, I should like to set the record straight. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  did not advocate a coastguard service. In the short time at his disposal he discarded the idea of a coastguard service as impracticable. Nor did he say that we should have some continuous and absolute police force system watch over the approaches to Australia. There is not much point in talking about whether one approves or disapproves of access to Australia if one cannot do anything about it- if one cannot find out about or does not even notice people who are entering our territorial seas. That is the first issue I should like to make clear. I hope that the speech by the honourable member for Corio is not misunderstood in that regard. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  made several points in what one might call a contentious political way, which I should challenge. He claimed that we have not shown any interest in defence over the past three years or so. It is difficult to show interest publicly in matters of defence or anything else which is debated in this Parliament when debates are constantly gagged, when Ministers never come into this chamber and make statements about anything, or, if they do so, as soon as they start to lose an argument they close down the debate. Honourable members on this side of the House have much the same interest in defence as have our friends opposite, except that when we were in government we did something practical about the matter. It was the Labor Government which continued with the purchase of the FI 1 1- a very difficult decision to make. It was the Labor Government which put the careers of members of the armed services on a substantial footing. It was the Labor Government which ordered the Leopard tank and took a number of other initiatives to secure the defence position of Australia which prevailed at the time. 
We do not say that the present Government is running away from this issue; it has just gone to sleep on it There is no doubt that the people of Australia are concerned about the situation which has developed- that it seems to be possible for anybody in the most unseaworthy vessel to invade our snores. I know that it would be in the long term that we would have to worry about hysteria generated by concern that tens of thousands of people were going to invade our shores. But it still intrigues all of us to consider that, with our enormous array of facilities in the defence system, the transport system and so on, we can be sneaked up upon by fishing ships which have come all the way from Vietnam. We want the system changed. 
We are not going to embark upon an argument whether people ought to be allowed to come here; that is not the issue. But territorial integrity- speaking in the same terms as my colleague the honourable member for Bradfield and relating it to the seas surrounding the mainland of Australia-has to be assured. We shall decide whether it is necessary to prevent people from coming here after various other decisions have been made. But we must create the apparatus by which we can be absolutely certain that we know who is coming to Australia, why they are coming and what we should do when they do get here. I am not intrigued by the argument that surveillance is a defence function. The facts as I see them are that there is a problem to be faced. So we have to look at the available resources with which we can tackle the problem. 
I have some figures I would like to cite. We do not want to become neurotic about what might be called the continuous incursions into Australia, but in 1973 there were 283 sightings of fishing vessels. The number increased to 43 1 in 1974. According to figures in the report of the Department of Transport, the Marine Operations Centre investigated 1,482 incidents during 1976-77- three or four a day on average- and of that number 173 were separate sightings of fishing vessels. I suppose it would not matter all that much if all these vessels caught most of the fish that they look for now, but there is no doubt that Australia's fishing resources are of a limited nature and we must not allow them to be taken from us. However, that is only the thin edge of the wedge in a world situation in which all sorts of other things may happen to us. 
On the question of whether surveillance is a civil or a defence responsibility, I think that whilst the actual policing of the system, the final management of the system and what is done about it should be civil decisions, perhaps the actual Defence Force has the apparatus with which to carry out the job. I do not think the decision as to whether surveillance is a civil or a defence function is mutually exclusive. We already have in Australia rather large surveillance forces. The Customs Bureau has surveillance apparatus. There are the police forces in each of the States. The Department of Transport has a very large navigational aid and radar system, but it does not cover the whole of the Australian continent. The State investigation systems are there. They can patrol parts of the coastline. There are also the environmental people, the fisheries people, the people who monitor oil spillage and so on. There is a very large but disorganised apparatus, although the Marine Operations Centre under the Department of Transport has brought some cohesion into surveillance in recent years. 
What is the situation insofar as the armed Services are concerned? I suppose this is a subjective value view of what might be called the Australian temperament, but I do not think the people who join the Australian defence services are properly conditioned to spending their lives doing very little. It may be all right for a person who joined the services in somewhere like Belgium or Holland where men are not accustomed to going away on expeditionary forces, where the horizons are bounded by a closely knit society and there is a long tradition to take matters very quietly. I am absolutely certain that the morale of the Australian defence forces would be raised by the use of personnel constantly in operations which they think provide gainful employment. I think that in what might be called a morale building sense it is essential to use our armed Services in this way. 
The Royal Australian Air Force already has a duty in regard to surveillance of the sea around the Australian coastline as much as it has over the mainland. The Navy has a similar duty as regards sea search. I suspect that the Army has the capacity and ought to be practising to protect continuously our land and our coastline. The Army in many respects has the necessary equipment. It is perhaps not appropriate for the task that we have before us, but that is part of the development of our history. In the past Australia- we have not quite grown out of it- has become totally accustomed to conditioning itself to other people's wars and fitting itself into other people's theatres of operations. I do not know whether we have yet grown out of that practice. I do not think any member on either side of this House, the people in the defence forces or the people in the civil section of the structure have yet conditioned themselves to look at a new Australian environment in this regard. We have the manpower and we have some special skills. 
The task of the armed forces in the first instance is in general intelligence, keeping surveillance over a situation so that we know what is going on around the country, both on our shores and beyond. I refer to things such as illegal incursions, whether they involve fishing, smuggling or immigrants. The resources for the actual surveillance are more readily available in the defence forces than anywhere else. It seems to me on the simple logistics of the matter that this matter of surveillance ought to be one for the Department of Defence. 
I am disappointed that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has not chosen to take part in this discussion. The honourable member for Bradfield chided the Opposition and said that we do not take much interest in defence. If we raise a matter such as this I do not think it is asking for too much to ask the Minister for Defence to take part in the debate. If honourable members look back over the pattern of debates in this Parliament in the years until the return of this Government in 1976 1 think they will find that on nearly any issue on which a major debate was coming up or on any new issue such as this the Minister concerned or a member of the Ministry took part on behalf of the Government. 
I think we have before us a very important decision to make, and that is: What kind of defence force and what kind of apparatus should we design to cope with the problem which is ahead of us? I think we have to apply ourselves to this question in a different way. The honourable member for Bradfield and the honourable member for Corio both raised the issue of what equipment we should have. We know from the various studies that have been done that 1 5 or 20 Nomads operating on the north coast of Australia are able to cover almost 50 per cent of the coast. Although the latest Nomads are a bit more expensive they are still cheap by international standards. We have in Australia a very large defence research capacity, both for the development of new ways of conducting surveillance and in the manufacturing of equipment, but mostly it is underemployed. I believe we could not at this stage make out a good case for anything else but for the Department of Defence to be responsible for the principal operational role in this field. The civil services may well then come into the operation when it comes to doing something about the malefactors or in deciding the methods of interception to be carried out. The actual structure of the Defence Force makes it the appropriate choice to do the job. The Services would have logistics practice. It would give the Navy practice at sea. The Air Force obviously needs both practice and equipment. 
If the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  defends his clients in court in the same way as he has defended this legislation, it is no wonder that the prisons of New South Wales are over-full. I will take just some of the points that he made this evening. First of all, let us take the political point. Fancy anyone in this Parliament being political! I am going to disappoint the honourable member. I am going to be political. This is a major political issue. It is a challenge to the Parliament, a challenge issued by the people of Australia when they passed the referendum back in 1967, and the honourable member knows that full well. We have a clear constitutional duty to take up the challenge issued by the Queensland Premier and fulfil the aspirations of the Aboriginal people. That means that they must have absolute security on the reserves upon which they live. The honourable member said that we had been political. He said that we might come into confrontation with the Premier of Queensland. What is wrong with that? It is probably 20 years too late to come into confrontation on these matters with the Premier and others in Queensland, but this is what the honourable member had to say in the debate on the matter of public importance only a few weeks ago: 
If we are to embark on a program of confrontation, as the Opposition has sought to do, we will be in exactly the same situation which the Australian Labor Party was in when it was in government. 
In other words, Labor lost nearly all its seats in Queensland. The honourable member is not afraid of the Queensland Premier; he is afraid of a political reaction that would lose seats for his Party. I suggest that the people of Australia will measure honourable members opposite by the integrity with which they have taken up this challenge. This Bill is a piece of shadow sparring. But honourable members opposite say that the Opposition is trying to create a state within a stateapartheid. What nonsense! Is Canberra, which is administered separately from the area around it, an example of apartheid? Of course it is not. Is Nhulunbuy in Arnhem Land which is a mining enclave an example of apartheid or a state within a state? Of course it is not. Are Puckapunyal and other military establishments of that sort, whether they be under constitutional or Commonwealth authority, which engage in Commonwealth services areas of this type? Of course they are not. Is the repatriation system which operates separately throughout the whole of our community for a separate group of people an example of apartheid or a state within a state? Of course it is not. 
We have to face the fact that we can put no faith in the Government of Queensland, in the present Premier of Queensland or in his immediate predecessors. Anything which ignores that fact represents shadow sparring. We are dodging the issue. I am afraid that after all the fanfares of trumpets this legislation represents another sellout. I want to take issue with our colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  on the question of the role of the National Aboriginal Conference, as it is now called. I will take a couple of points which arise from the use of language. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have talked about the inaugural meeting of the National Aboriginal Conference. For the last three or four days they have done everything in their power to make it look as if it was their initiative, as if they had set it up themselves. The Conference has been in business for five years. Its structure has been changed to a certain extent and its name has been changed. But the object for which it was established is still there. The major objective of its establishment was to provide a pipeline between the Aboriginal people of Australia, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Government. In this first issue that comes forward after the Government has used the National Aboriginal Conference as a political ploy to show how good it is, how dinkum it is and how fair it is to the Aboriginal people, it ignores the Conference absolutely. I have a copy of the telegram from the National Aboriginal Council before me. It asks that the Conference be consulted and that the matter be deferred until it can consider it. Why can the Government not do that? 
I suppose that I have nearly as good a record as most honourable members in this House as a parliamentary advocate of the cause we are discussing here tonight But the procedures adopted in this Parliament today in respect of this piece of legislation are a disgrace to the Australian parliamentary system. They are fraught with the destruction of the traditional parliamentary program and system and we ought not to tolerate it, no matter how urgent we think the issues are. Of course, the urgency of the issues has been exposed by the failure of the Minister to act over the last few weeks and months and, in fact, over the last few years. The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  made a plea on behalf of the people whom he represents. One wonders how a person such as the honourable member is able to fall in with the people who run the National Country Party in Queensland. The honourable member talked about the choice of the Aboriginal people. This has been one of the major objectives of the Aboriginal policy of the 
Australian Labor Party over the last few years. We ask the question: Will the Aboriginal people be free to make continuing choices once they have made a choice to accept the provisions of this Bill? We say not and nothing said from the other side of the House, and nothing in the Minister's speech, disabuses our fears about that. When will honourable members opposite face up to the facts of life and do the job properly? 
We cannot make any deals with the Premier of Queensland. Surely that is obvious. The man is the quintessence of a political practitioner. He cares not a point about principles. He has turned political hypocrisy, unprincipled behaviour and unscrupulous usage of his office into a fine art. He is Australia's greatest political practitioner. He even makes members of this Government look like amateurs. I turn to deal with some of the other points which were made. The honourable member for Leichhardt said that Crown land will be vested in the Government of Queensland. That is placing a blissful trust in the Government of Queensland. Land is the issue and we cannot avoid that by changing the name of the legislation. Land is the issue and the key to the situation. To ignore that is to dodge away from the issue. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  shakes his head. He is either attesting to or denying what I say. He will find out when the Aboriginal people go to the ballot box next time that land is the issue. 
The other issue is the opportunity of the Aboriginal people to control and manage their own affairs. I do not like to use the word 'control '. But the management of their own affairs is again another issue. This legislation represents a craven breakdown, blissful innocence- is there anybody who thinks that this Government is full of young innocents- or is it a devious political ploy. I ask honourable members to look at the unhappy record. First of all, we had the cuts in expenditure which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  proposed to the House. There was a total surrender when faced by the Queensland Government with issues such as the trachoma program. There was the failure of the Northern Territory Aboriginal land rights legislation to face up to the issue and place on the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory the responsibility finally for many areas which are of some importance. This legislation will not work. We say that this legislation does not face the issue and that those pans of the legislation which cover points of which we approve will not work because it does not have the appropriate teeth. I was hoping that tonight we would reach the end of the long haul. But what has happened? We have stopped short of the top. I pick up copies of newspapers and read articles dealing with the seasonal sport in politics. In a newspaper dated 24 January 1976 1 found the headline: 'Canberra may move in Aurukun row'. That was more than two years ago. At the same time, another newspaper headline read: 'Canberra accuses State of Aurukun trickery'. Yet the honourable member for Dundas says that we can still put our faith in the Queensland Government. In 1 973, at a time when the people running this country had the interests of the Aboriginal people at heart, a letter was written by the then Prime Minister to the Premier of Queensland asking him to transfer the Aboriginal lands to the Aboriginal people themselves. Of course, the Premier of Queensland did not do that. 
-No, we started the persuasion. Then we started to produce legislation. We established a battery of legislation which the present Government is not game to use. What is that matter all about? First of all we have as an example the aspirations of the Aboriginal people at Aurukun and Mornington Island. I say that land rights is the principal issue. I have spoken to the Aboriginal people about this and that is what they say also. It is significant that there are more Aboriginal people in the House tonight than there are Government supporters. Land rights is the principal issue. But other matters are involved also. I ask the question: Does this legislation answer that problem for the Aboriginal people? The Opposition says that it does not. The question of social development is another issue. In what way does this legislation fulfil Aboriginal aspirations in that respect? There is also the question of economic progress. How far will this legislation take the Aboriginal people along the road of economic progress? Somewhere I have some figures from the last available relevant report of the Queensland Government. It is stated in that report that only about one-third and in some cases 25 per cent of the adult Aboriginal people in these places have any sort of employment. Does this legislation guarantee the personal security of Aborigines? We say that it does not. It still leaves the reserves open to the trespass of the minions of the Government of Queensland. Does it establish the self-respect to which the Aboriginal people are entitled at this stage of our Australian history? Of course, it does not. What should be done? From the very moment that this issue became part of the political scene in Australia, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs had at his disposal, without any further legislation being passed by this Parliament, a battery of laws which enabled him to act. First, it is clear that he had powers under the Constitution. Section 51, placitum (xxxi) states that the Minister has the power for: 
The acquisition of property on just terms from any State or person for any purpose in respect of which the Parliament has power to make laws. 
The Constitution gives the Minister power to make laws for the Aboriginal people. He also has powers under the Lands Acquisition Act. 
-That is right. The Lands Acquisition Act fortifies that. Why has not the Government used that Act? 

 Mr BRYANT The Minister should have used that power weeks ago. There is no need to be rushing legislation in this way. The only way we can ensure the satisfactory security of the people of Aurukun, Mornington Island and other places is to acquire the land and deed it to the Aboriginal communities. Why do you not do that? 
I will explain to the honourable gentleman. First of all, a notice to treat is issued. The provisions are all there. I do not have time tonight to read them all out but the honourable gentleman will find the information in the Bills and Papers Office. I will arrange for a copy to be sent to him and have it annotated for him directly if he wishes. The provisions are all there but the Premier of Queensland says: 'No, I will not be in it '. Then an order for compulsory acquisition is issued, and after a certain number of days it becomes Commonwealth property. 
-Wait a minute. The deal, of course, is that the Government says to the owners that it will pay them so much. The honourable member for Dundas spoke of $500m. How would he arrive at that figure? It is a good round figure of course. He is a Sydney legal man. I suppose he would send a bill along the lines of: 
Doing this, that and the other . . . say, $500m. The Aurukun Reserve covers about 1.8 million acres. What is land worth up there? What is the going rate? They tell me that if one looks through the Queensland  Country Life  to try to buy a place in that general direction, one finds that it would cost between $ 1 .50 and $2 per acre. 
Wait a bit. It would cost perhaps $3m for Aurukun. Mornington Island, I suppose, would cost $400,000 to $500,000. That is the offer the Government would make to the Queensland Premier. 
-Just a moment. The Government would make that offer to the Premier of Queensland who then says that he will not accept that. He says that he wants to deal with the Government and he takes the matter to the High Court. What does the High Court say? I refer the House to the case of Australia versus the Proprietors of Lanyon here on the doorstep of Canberra. The Labor Government offered them, I think, in the first instance, $ 1 .8m. The owner was again a person from Sydney and he said that he wanted $35m because it was going to be urban land. We said: 'Not on your life'. We tried to introduce legislation in this place to guarantee that land acquired by the Commonwealth would be paid for at the going rate for the usage of that land. The Senate, under our friend Withers, threw it back. The matter went to the High Court and the High Court ruled that the appropriate price for land is the current usage value. 
What about minerals? I knew the question of minerals would rear its ugly head. The honourable member for Dundas is afraid of two things. He is afraid of loss of seats in the Parliament- I do not blame him for that- and who is going to get the bauxite. That, of course, is the weakness in this legislation. We should vest this land in the Aboriginal people in perpetuity by way of special legislation. That is what would be necessary and I would agree with it. Then, if the honourable- I should place those words in inverted commas- Premier of Queensland decided to withdraw services  from  the people there, it would be the Commonwealth 's duty to provide those services. We have had a double standard about these matters for too long. I ask: If the Queensland Government issued permits for mining tomorrow, would this legislation stop it? The answer is no. Is not that the pre-eminent threat to the people of Aurukun. Of course it is. If it decided to go on to the land and cut timber, would this legislation stop it? Of course it would not. If it decided to give special fishing rights along the shores, would this legislation stop it? Of course it would not. The legislation is phoney. 
We are breaking parliamentary tradition in the way in which we are handling this legislation. We have raised the aspirations of the people of 
Aurukun and Mornington Island and the rest of the Aboriginal people of Queensland. If we pass this legislation without appropriate amendments or if we do not withdraw it and do the simple, direct things such as acquiring the land and consulting the people we will have failed. We must ensure that there are adequate decision making powers. I presume that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is sincere in his stated hope that, when it comes to the point of applying this legislation to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island and other places, they will be able to make decisions about their own destiny. We say they will not. 
There is only one absolute security. I suppose this kind of psyche is common to all of us. The land upon which we live must be ours in some absolutely protected sense. In the current state of our society, in the current state of Australian politics, in our obsession with regard to minerals, there is only one absolute security for the Aboriginal people of Queensland and elsewhere, and that is the acquisition of the land and the vesting of it in them absolutely. I know this conflicts with treasured and traditional attitudes to mineral rights. In this country the mineral rights belong to the Crown. The Crown then sells them off, not to the highest bidder, but usually to the lowest bidder. We have been selling this country over the last 10 or 15 years at about 5c a ton. Some people have made enormous fortunes out of this but not the people who traditionally own the land. What real profits have the people of Yirrkala received from the Gove bauxite developments? What real profit have the people of Groote Eylandt received? What real profit have the people of Weipa received? We must find another formula. 
The honourable member for Dundas and I have travelled this country very extensively looking at Aboriginal communities. I guess that our friends on this side of the House and our friends on the other side of the House all have something in their hearts asking them to try to find an answer to this question. But if they start on the premise that property, State rights and that kind of legalism transcends human rights, they will find no answer. 
As I said earlier, it is a long haul. It is some 20-odd years since we took up the debate about Aboriginal progress in this Parliament. Lots of things have happened since. The Constitution has been changed. The laws of Australia dealing with Aboriginal people have been changed, but not as effectively as we would have wished in Queensland. We have made a different social climate. I find it most gratifying to have on our side on this occasion the Right Honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  not a notable radical revolutionary or progressive, to have the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs sounding as if he is almost one of us, to have the churches, which, organisationally speaking, have dragged their feet in the past coming out on side against the Premier of Queensland. The churches have an unhappy history, as have governments, as have we all. When the issues were first raised in Yirrkala and Weipa, the Methodist Church in the first instance, and the Presbyterian Church, in the second instance, came down basically on the side of governments. The missionaries did not and the people on the spot did not. The Aboriginal people owe a great debt to many people in the churches, not so much the people on the organisational side, but the people on the ground. There is no answer, short of total acquisition deeding the land to the Aboriginal people and consulting them all the way. I appeal to the Minister to take cognisance of the fact that the National Aboriginal Conference is meeting in Canberra at the moment. They are all here. How can we expect them to go away from here, from what the Minister chose to call their inaugural meeting- I put that in inverted commas toowith any sense of purpose or any respect for the job which has been bestowed upon them if in this fundamental issue the Minister will not even take 24 hours off to consult them. 
-(3.42)-I support what my colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  has just said. At various times in the past we have had fairly lengthy consideration in this Parliament of this question of meeting times and so on. 

 -No, Mr Speaker. I am speaking about the arrangements for the meeting times tomorrow, which is the matter now before the House. 
This haphazard rearrangement of times upsets a great number of things. Tomorrow there is to be an important function in Parliament House. I think it is important that we pay proper respect to the people who visit us in this way. I personally think that we would probably be better engaged in being with the Head of State of Western Samoa, and enjoying a good luncheon together than in being in this place and being treated by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  as though we really were not here.  His  behaviour, as far as the House is concerned, is about the most disgraceful I have experienced in 22 years in this place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Whilst agreeing in principle with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  I support this move with some reservations. I take up the theme that the honourable member for St George raised. In the few minutes of speaking time I have tonight I would like to place some remarks on the record. The honourable member referred to the bounds of legitimate dissent. I think that we need to be very careful about how we go about stopping people putting up signs or calling themselves anything they care to call themselves in this country. For instance, this country seems to be fostering Prince Leonard of Hutt River Province and so on. It puts up with a thing that calls itself the National Country Party and another that calls itself the Democratic Party which perhaps has no relationship with democracy or anything else. 
I remind honourable members that once we start on the path of suppression of what we ordinarily would reckon to be reasonable dissent or reasonable propagation of a point of view we are on the slippery downward path to the final suppression of all sorts of things. I did not intend to speak on this matter in this way until I took note of the events that have occurred in Brisbane over the last few days. People actually have been arrested and charged for singing hymns on Crown land. That is incredible, but it has happened and it is happening continuously. There has been a progressive deterioration of our rights and our tendency to protect our rights. I remind honourable members opposite that I have no sympathy whatsoever with the general political situation of the Croatians and I have no sympathy whatsoever with the Government of Rhodesia, but I have a great deal of reluctance to suppress people circulating whatever views they like. I feel that we should all consider these things together. What does the existence of the Croatian Embassy matter? How far do we have to take the sensitivity of other people's feelings? What if someone put up a sign called the Queensland Embassy in London, New York or anywhere else? What would we do? Would we care? Of course we would not. Take these things together: The Croatian Embassy, the Rhodesian Information Centre, the Queensland street situation and the Timor radio. We have a very serious diminution of civil liberties in this respect. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: In view of the destructive impact of rnining developments on Aboriginal societies in other parts of Australia, such as Yirrkala, Groote and Weipa, will he give an assurance that, under the agreement signed with the Premier of Queensland, the Aurukun people are to be protected against the invasion of their land by  mining companies? Does the agreement supersede Queensland's mining laws? Does he agree that self-management without land rights is a mirage and that rnining is the greatest and most constant threat to their social stability? 
-The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  is surely well aware that a large number of pregnancies are terminated because of the social conditions which are inflicted upon the people of Australia. A large proportion of the group who have to take the steps referred to by the honourable member do so because of the failure of the country's social programs in all sorts of ways. We are all responsible for that condition in many respects, but I think that the honourable members opposite are more responsible than most. I express my sympathy with the point put by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  about the devastation wrought in south Western Australia. I know that he personally was a victim of it. I hope that that is something to which we will pay attention and that facilities will be provided in this country to minimise the effects of such occurrences and to bring proper aid to the people who suffered these sorts of things across this sometimes troubled continent. 
I support my colleagues the honourable members for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  in their criticism of the approach of this Government to Aboriginal advancement programs and particularly to the episodes that have taken place in the last few weeks in the negotiations with the Premier of Queensland. There has been another let-down. The result of those negotiations is no answer whatsoever. The document that has been tabled as the one agreed to between the Premier of Queensland and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is no answer. It gives no security to the Aborigines. I am afraid- I make this point here and now- that another let-down may well occur in relation to the Torres Strait. The latest moves by the Government of Papua New Guinea with which the Australian Government seems to concur, places the security of the people of the Torres Strait, particularly of" the islands of Dauan, Boigu and Saibai, in peril. 
Over the last two and a half to three years a mythology has developed about the Aboriginal advancement programs. This mythology has been built upon the theme that the Labor Government either did nothing for the Aboriginal people or did what it did incorrectly and basically wasted money. I regard that as a most amoral or, I suppose, immoral political ploy. The facts are that in the three years in which the Labor Government was in power programs were launched which had a dramatic effect upon the future of the Aboriginal people right across the board. I ask honourable members opposite to stand up at some stage and spell out the new initiatives that have been taken by this Government in Aboriginal advancement programs since November 1975. 1 cannot think of one, and I am normally fairly charitable even to my political opponents. 
Everything that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has touched in relation to Aboriginal Affairs he has damaged. Everything that he has looked at has been chiselled down. The programming has been reduced in effectiveness, size and scope because of the financial approaches of this Government. Everyone who can read knows and understands that the health of the Aboriginal people is of a lower order than that of the rest of the community. The Labor Government launched health programs throughout the country to try to overcome this problem. Health services were one of the first casualties of the return of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition Government. The same happened to education services. Dramatic new steps were taken in relation to education. These were built upon some programs advanced by Ministers and governments prior to 1972. But such things as Aboriginal bilingual education, the programs and support for Aboriginal children at schools and the isolated children's programs, which covered the non-Aboriginal and Aboriginal communities, are Labor initiatives that have been taken forward. 
Legal service is another area to which I refer. For some mysterious reason the passions of honourable members opposite and the conservative element in the community are aroused because people who have allegedly broken the law are being assisted. I remember the former honourable member for Fremantle remarking in this chamber on one occasion that the only doors that were open freely to the Aboriginal people of Australia were the doors of the prisons. That was true. The Aboriginals were the first people arrested throughout the country. They were the principal victims in the courts. They were helpless before the courts. We established legal assistance schemes to overcome this problem. Housing is one of the great disgraces of the Australian scene, as far as the Aboriginal people are concerned. We are all aware of the great difficulties of carrying out an effective housing program for any part of the community. For the Aboriginal people such a program is bedevilled by the difficulties of distance and the differences of need and aspiration in housing of the Aboriginal people from one end of Australia to another. We launched programs of some magnitude in this area. Most of them have been slowed down. There has been a gradual, halting start. 
That brings me to a point about land. Land is the fundamental need of the Aboriginal people. We all have attitudes to land. We all feel an attachment to the piece of real estate upon which we have lived or on which we were born. Land is the key to the issue in Aurukun and Mornington Island in northern Queensland and elsewhere. Land is the subject of the discussions between the Premier of Queensland and the Prime Minister of Australia, neither of whom will be sensitive to the Aboriginal people's aspirations concerning land. The Aboriginal people in particular have been let down. I appeal to the House to turn its mind back on this subject with some of the vigour it showed when we were in government and during the run-up to the 1972 election. We have to defeat the mythology, as I called it earlier, concerning the wastage of money upon Aboriginal programs. That is intolerable. It bedevils everything. It prevents proper estimating being done. It prevents people approaching the problem with an open mind. Across the board, the Aboriginal people of Australia have needs. Across the board, those needs must be looked at. We have to do better than we did in the past. 
I have before me a list of the inquiries into the subject. I went through the subject on behalf of some of my colleagues and found that since 1 964 40 different inquiries have been held. I have over 200 pages not of reports but of recommendations, hardly any of which have been implemented. I believe that a great deal of the non-implementation of these things comes from the ready acceptance of the attack upon Aboriginal programs by people in communities who are envious, racist or resent money being spent on other people. I believe that this was the issue in northern Queensland in the last few weeks. There is only one solution to the problem: The land must be acquired and must be deemed in perpetuity to those communities. Such action is not apartheid or separate development. It is none of those things. This country is accustomed to people being able to operate as communities on their own account and even to the establishing of separate facilities for themselves and people of their affinity without any problems at all. For instance, we have an enormous range of Catholic schools and education facilities. So we are accustomed to it all. We have a very comprehensive system for people who have served in wars. I ask honourable members opposite to disabuse their minds of some of the things- I suppose one could call them myths- that have been floating around in the last three or four years in relation to this subject. 
People should take with a grain of salt the speech of the Prime Minister to the National Aboriginal Conference on Monday of last week. The NAC was established to be the principal advisory body to the Minister. It was convened and called into being to establish an apparatus by which the Aboriginal people themselves could speak directly and continuously to government. It is my deep regret that successive Ministers, particularly the present one, have not made any effort to overcome the disabilities of the membership of that body and to establish an effective communications system. That body was not set up as a separate apparatus. The idea was that there would be an immediate channel of communication and that the Ministers would listen to that. This body was finally established late in 1973. It was getting into business by the time we went out of government. The present Minister appointed a committee of inquiry, and we want to take with a grain of salt the remarks made by the Department to that inquiry. 
The National Aboriginal Conference met in Canberra this week. The Prime Minister opened a meeting of this important body last Monday week. He had the presumption, as did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, to give the feeling that they had actually created the body. However, we will not go into that matter at the moment. What that body was supposed to be and what I hope it will become is the principal advocate of the Aboriginal people's causes- the principal line of communication between every community in Australia to the Minister. I only hope he will establish some kind of system in which any member of the NAC will feel free to ring his office and say: 'Things need doing in this area'. Unless this happens there is nothing we can do about the advancement of the Aboriginal people. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Clause 2 of the Bill states: 
This Act shall come into operation on the day on which the principal Aa comes into operation. 
We have seen tonight a typical example of the way in which the Government handles this kind of legislation. There is no chance of this legislation being passed for at least three weeks as the Senate has adjourned for two weeks. The people in this Parliament who are most vitally concerned with this legislation have had inadequate time to consult on or consider it. The National Aboriginal Conference, which has been meeting in Canberra over the last week or so, has not been consulted about this matter. The fact is, of course, that this legislation destroys the spirit of the original legislation introduced in this Parliament and passed through this House, I think, on 5 November 1975. So, I wish to move an amendment to make the clause read: 
This Act shall come into operation after adequate consultation has taken place with the National Aboriginal Conference. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-This clause and the amendment go right to the heart of the legislation. It may be well for me to explain to the Committee exactly what are the origins of this matter. 
-If the honourable member for La Trobe listens for a while he will perhaps learn. If necessary, we will post him a copy of  Hansard.  When the Labor Government set out some five years ago to establish satisfactory financial arrangements for the Aboriginal people to enable them to handle their own affairs, it found that there was no satisfactory State legislation, and of course at that stage there was no 
Commonwealth legislation. Our object was to give the Aboriginal communities financial support for those things which concern them, basic services such as housing and so on. 
I think it is quite wrong for honourable members opposite- the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  should be well aware of this- to think that what is proposed in this amendment is an attempt to superimpose upon the normal local government situation in Australia an extra autonomous local government system. It is nothing of the sort. It is an attempt to give to the Aboriginal communities an opportunity to conduct their own affairs in accordance with their affinities, desires and aspirations, which is the case with so many other groups in this country. It has been traditional since the beginning of the settlement of Australia for organisations- I think the religious ones are the best examples- to do this. In many parts of Australia the Catholic Church, the Anglican Church, the Presbyterian Church and a number of Congregational units have been able to establish for themselves schools and various instrumentalities which are complementary to the ordinary services provided by the State and municipalities. This does not involve only Queensland. However, I agree in many respects with what the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said, that it should not be necessary for this to be done in the Northern Territory. 
In some country towns in Western Australia or New South Wales, 500 or 600 Aboriginal people might live in a community and perhaps 250 to 300 of them might live in what could be termed a reserve on the edge of the town. There are perhaps 30, 40 or 50 families scattered around the town. They are a community in their own right. The object of the Labor Government legislation was to give them an opportunity to work as a community- supply amongst themselves services which they considered desirable- to make themselves free of the State and local governments. The point about this legislation is that it destroys the Commonwealth's capacity to do that and to ensure that it happens. 
Honourable members would know, especially as a number of them have been members of committees which have travelled around Australia looking at this situation, that one of the great difficulties all through the two centuries of European settlement in this country, has been to ensure that government authorities- State, municipal or Federal- carry out their duties to the Aboriginal people with the same verve and the same energy as they adopt towards the rest of the community. The legislation was a considered attempt and, I think, an important attempt, to supply Aboriginal communities with the sinews of war in this regard. There were lots of difficulties associated with it in the first instance. I remember that we gave consideration to whether there were complementary Acts throughout the States that could be used or whether there was any possibility of using legislation by which organisations could be incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory, but those Acts would not have had the force of law beyond the boundaries of the Australian Capital Territory. 
I put it to the Committee, to the Minister and to the Government, and I hope that the Senate will consider it, that it is fundamental to the operations of the Aboriginal community that in many respects the people be released from dependence upon the State governments and upon municipal governments. This legislation is just another instance of the Government's appeasement of the States, to use the word which was used by my colleague the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  'Appeasement' is too soft a word; it is a total surrender. I can see that the Government will have to obtain the approval of the appropriate Northern Territory Minister to consider some of the ramifications of the clause otherwise there will be no possibility of this legislation taking real effect. I appeal to honourable members in the chamber at this moment to give the matter serious consideration. For instance, my friend the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  would be well aware of the situation in various parts of his electorate where Aboriginal communities need to be able to work amongst themselves, regardless of what the rest of the community does. I am confident that if honourable members opposite consider this matter in relation to their own Aboriginal communities they will see that it is fundamental that the Commonwealth has the full responsibility and that the Commonwealth maintains its responsibility and duty. They will then reject the clause. 
At this stage, after so much consideration in the Parliament I am disappointed that the Government should be going backwards on this issue. It is a complete departure from the spirit of the original legislation. I remind honourable members that they will find discussion of the original legislation in the  Hansard  records for 1975. The legislation passed through all its stages in this chamber and it was ready to go to the Senate when the Parliament was dissolved. The legislation before us, brought in in 1 976, was simply a rehabilitation measure. Now processes have taken place and pressures have been brought to bear upon the Government and the Minister has gone backwards again. One of the most disappointing features of the last two years has not been the non-acceptance of Labor's policies but the destruction of so many of the programs initiated during the period of the Labor Government. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 8- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-sections: "(8) Where the Minister is not satisfied that the request should be complied with, he shall refuse the request and shall notify the Aboriginal Council in writing, accordingly.". 
I should like to add to the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  I think that once again this amendment goes to the spirit of the legislation: Consultation with the people and their consideration. I should like to ask the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  who is at the table, why the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is not in the chamber during consideration of this legislation. If something serious has prevented him from being here, I can understand that; but if it is simply that other business concerns him, I think that is a very poor exercise. I hope that the Minister at the table can give some adequate explanation why, on an issue such as this, where we have substantial amendments to place before the Parliament, the Minister responsible is not here. 
The point is that this legislation has been going around and around. 
-The honourable member for Dundas should be the last person to talk about anything being debated in this House. On every occasion that the question has been put he has voted for the gag against everybody and anybody. The facts are - 
Motion (by  Mr Macphee)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Wills be not further heard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)The  question is 'That the honourable member for Wills be not further heard'. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
Opposition members- The noes have it. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is a division required? 
Opposition members- Yes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Ring the bells. 

 The bells being rung- 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no point of order. The honourable member for Bendigo will resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I call the honourable member for Bendigo to order. 
Question put: 
The Committee divided (The Chairman-Mr P. C. Millar) 
Ayes.......... 63 
Noes.......... 25 
Majority....... 38 

<graphic href="108131197804136_92_4_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804136_92_4_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804136_92_4_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 15- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16. 
Section 52 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting after sub-section (  1  ) the following subsections: "(2a) Where the Registrar refuses to approve an alteration filed under sub-section  (1),  the relevant Association may request the Minister to approve the alteration. "(2b) Where the Minister, having regard to the matters specified in paragraphs (2) (a) and (b), is satisfied that the request should be complied with, he shall approve the alteration. "(2c) Where the Minister is not satisfied that the request should be complied with, he shall refuse to approve the alteration and shall notify the Association, in writing accordingly."; and 
by adding at the end of sub-section (3) " or by the Minister under sub-section (2b)  ". 
-I would like to make the point to the Acting Leader of the House  (Mr Fife)  that at some stage in the not too distant future we should put aside some time for the Parliament or the House of Representatives to debate the matter or to have the  Speaker  convene the Standing Orders Committee for a proper examination of our days and hours of meeting. I think it is ridiculous for us to be starting here at 10 a.m. and going through until 1 1 p.m. Why do we not start at 9 a.m.? If we are going to meet in this pattern, is it worthwhile our giving real consideration to a five-day week and making some arrangements for our wives and families to have more travel to and from Canberra and such Uke? 
There is a whole series of factors involved which ought to be considered in relation to this matter. I make the point that Ministers ' wives are able to travel whenever they feel it necessary. I know that honourable members will say that they have to get back to their electorates and so on but on Friday nights at what time will they get back to their electorates? At what time would they leave on Sundays and so on? If we are to make a fortnight's foray of some sort into the Parliament we might as well do it properly, make a whole job of it and meet as much as possible during the day time. Perhaps it is better to have committees and other groups meeting in the evenings. A whole series of factors is involved in the way in which this Parliament operates resulting from new subjects coming before it. We have never given the matter proper consideration, nor have we taken enough time for people to be able to predict what we are going to do. The reason why it has not worked in the past when we have changed the times in the way I suggest is that it has always been done with only a few weeks notice. Most honourable members need five or six weeks notice so that they can clear up matters to which they have become committed. I think that the way we are meeting is idiotic. It is designed to make the place uninhabitable and the people bad tempered by the end of the week. To close down at 11 p.m. having started at 9 a.m., as most of us do, is totally nonsensical. It is no way to conduct the business of the Parliament or our own private affairs or anything else. I hope that we will very rapidly get around to considering the business of the House rather than the convenience of Ministers, Cabinets or the off-hand decisions on how to get through certain business in order to get away from the place as rapidly as possible. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Did the Minister make an announcement recently that three northern islands in the Torres Strait- Kawa Island, Mata Kawa Island and Kussa Island- are no longer part of Australia? Is he aware of the existence of official maps of which I have copies here, one published in 1974 by the Division of National Mapping, another one published by the Division of National Mapping in 1949 and one issued by the Surveyor's Office in Brisbane in 1892, which show clearly that the Australian border lies between those islands and the mainland of Papua New Guinea? Under what authority did the Minister make the announcement which makes an alteration to Australia's boundaries, despite what appear to be the provisions of the Constitution? Will he make an adequate explanation to the House and give us a chance to bring the matter under parliamentary scrutiny? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to refer to - 
I think that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  should listen very carefully to what I have to say, because my remarks affect him. I am speaking about some of Australia's offshore islands. This afternoon I asked the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  a question with reference to a Press release issued a few weeks ago in which he said that three islands in the Torres Strait area were now no longer to be regarded as part of Australia because research had shown that they were not included in the boundaries at the time that the territorial boundaries were drawn. The Minister has not indicated to us what this research is. I could not find in all the documents that are readily available in this Parliament any evidence to support his statement. Two issues are involved in this matter. Firstly, there is the general question of whether this area is part of Australia. The second issue is whether an area that has been part of the Australian scene and drawn on every map as such for 99 years should be permitted to be altered by administrative decree. I think that it is a piece of administrative arrogance for the Minister to start to alter the frontiers of Australia in this way. 
This is the situation. For about the last six years a debate has been proceeding with Papua New Guinea in respect of the boundaries between Australia and Papua New Guinea. There has been a tendency on the part of this Governmentthere was also a sign of it under the Labor Government- to think that some of the islands in the Torres Strait should well be transferred to Papua New Guinea. I must remind the House that the Torres Strait Islanders are Australians. They regard themselves as Australians and they have been Australian for the last 99 years. The Torres Strait Islanders are just as much a part of Australia and just as much Australians as the people of Brunswick and Coburg in my electorate, the people of Hamilton in the Wannon electorate or the people of Camberwell Junction in the electorate of Kooyong. The fact that they are 2,000 miles away, happen to be black and happen to be Torres Strait Islanders, ought not in any way to remove them from proper consideration in this Parliament. 
The boundary between the two countries has been drawn very close to the mainland of Papua New Guinea. But that is not unique. There are plenty of instances of that throughout the world. Three islands in the area are inhabited. They are Boigu Island, Dauan Island and Saibai Island. About 600 or 700 people live on those islands and about 350 people are registered on the electoral roll. About five or six years ago when this matter first arose I wrote to every one of those people and asked whether they wanted to remain part of Australia. I want to make this point quite clear. In fact, I was about to make a personal explanation on the matter today. I am not raising this matter as an advocate for or on behalf of the Premier of Queensland. He started in the field some long time after I did. I have no doubt that we would make a very good ticket. In fact I find that there is nothing more prejudicial to one's case in this country than to have the Premier of Queensland on one's side. There are three small uninhabited islands. I do not know whether they are of much use as real estate. 
-They are above the sea at high and low tides. Actually, they are in Queensland, and the honourable member for Petrie, coming from that State, ought to know his geography well enough to understand that. The islands of Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussu are only a few hundred yards from the mainland of Papua New Guinea. As I understand it, the Foreign Minister has decided that in the boundaries that are drawn, where the reference is to the Talbot group, these islands are not part of the Talbot group and, therefore, are not part of Australia. The documents that can be read about this have associated with them statements by Premiers of Queensland, by administrators and so on. I am asking Parliament to insist particularly that no Minister of any State or of this place be allowed to have that sort of authority- to make a decision to alter the boundaries of Australia by administrative decree. 
It is not just a question of the islands, although I think that might well be important to the people there, but it is a question of the way we conduct government. To give away some of the offshore islands in a throwaway, offhand manner is a threat to everyone in Australia. The Government might start in the south next and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  might find himself part of Macquarie Island or something like that. I ask the Parliament to give serious consideration to this matter and to remember that we are dealing with the rights and privileges of a group of people who are just as much part of Australia as we are. 
-! want to make a few short points on this general question. First of all, I disagree with the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  on his interpretation of what we are about. What we are after is that the political activity of the Aboriginal people and their political rights be guaranteed by a program of education, enrolment, and so on, to ensure that when elections are held, the Aboriginal people take their place in the community as such. Parliament and elections are the business of parliamentarians. Therefore we ought to get on with the job of looking into the matter and see whether whatever is necessary to be done for the Aboriginal people is being done. 
Australia has a pretty good record on the question of voting as opposed to electoral boundaries. We have had adult sufferage for a long time. We provided for voting by women before almost anyone else in the world. We are one of the few nations to have compulsory voting. I suggest that in respect of the Aboriginal community we should be doing what was done in 1 973 at the inauguration of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, as it was then called. Those of us who were in politics at the establishment of the committee recognised that the administrative task of getting thousands of Aboriginal people throughout Australia enrolled would be great. Some hundreds of people were called in as enrollers. They visited every Aboriginal community in Australia and they enrolled, I think, 30,000 Aboriginal people. At that stage the voting age was still 21, so they must have enrolled almost all those who were entitled to vote. In the subsequent election which occurred throughout Australia some 80 per cent of them did vote. I believe that is the way in which we should face up to all federal, State and municipal elections. 
Politics in elections is the very heart of the social process. The Aboriginal people are now entitled to have their say and to have it in a formal way. I have no sympathy whatever with the view that because, perhaps, Aboriginals are illiterate in the English language they ought not to be allowed to vote, ore that there is no point in offering them the opportunity of voting. If the opposite were true, elections could not be held in India and in many other countries of the world. What I suggest is that we take this matter up and ensure that the enrolment processes are carried out thoroughly throughout Australia, and that there is a proper campaign to get Aboriginal people on the roll. I remind the House of what I think was a highly successful operation in 1973. 1 refer to the election of the National Aboriginal 
Consultative Committee, which is now the National Aboriginal Conference. The Aboriginal people in that case showed that they were capable of making decisions. In the recent elections there was a big increase in the numbers of Aboriginal people participating, and I refer particularly to those in places such as the electorates of Grey and Leichhardt. I do not quite know what they did in Leichhardt- they seem to have made an error there- but in Grey they rallied to the cause of truth and justice and progress and supported my friend the sitting member. In the Northern Territory, as I understand it-- 
Are you going to speak on this? 
You do not need to remind me. 
-One and a half minutes should be almost adequate to expose this Government's follies in this area. If honourable members want a demonstration of the capacity to organise and administer an operation properly, they should consider the numbers of voters who in 1973 took part in the first election of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee and those who took part in the last election. This is an area to which we have to apply ourselves with great vigour. I represent an electorate with one of the largest concentrations of migrants in Australia; we make an enormous effort to get through to them in their various languages the solution to the complexities of the Australian voting system. Although it is difficult, it can be done in an area such as mine, which has eleven or twelve square miles and 100,000-odd people speaking five or six different languages. But the point about this is that the Aboriginal people of Australia, remote as they are, unencumbered as they are with the Australian Press, often beyond the reach of radio and certainly without access to television, have to receive their information in some other way. If we want to make the political process work we should be doing this for everybody. If honourable members want to deliver proper political justice to the Aboriginal people of Australia, I suggest that they should read the specifications set out in 1973 by the Steering Committee on the establishment of the National Aboriginal Consultative Council, published in a very important document- the submission I made to the Public Accounts Committee. I hope that the House will accept this and ignore the remarks of the honourable member for Dundas, who is always terribly pessimistic when it comes to doing anything. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the documents to which I have referred. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Agenda Proposals 
ELECTION OF NATIONAL ABORIGINAL CONSULTATIVE COUNCIL 
The Steering Committee met from 19-23 March in Canberra. They came together to discuss, mainly, the election of a truly representative, fully Aboriginal, Consultative Council. 
A number of advisers were asked to attend; they provided invaluable advice. They were  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras (Politics),  Mr John  Evans (Independent Solicitor),  Mr Bourke  (Commonwealth Electoral Office),  Mr Rose, Mr Scott  (Attorney-General's Department),  Dr Coombs  and  Mr Dexter  (Department of Aboriginal Affairs). 
In conjunction with these advisers the Steering Committee resolved that the following proposals be put to the interim National Aboriginal Consultative Council for consideration: 
Number of elected members: 
That the respective States and Territories restrict their electorates to a ceiling number of 6 and that each State use its discretion in realistically setting up its electorates; that this number of six be in effect only until the first election is complete, after which the decision of how many electorates there should be will be decided by the elected members. 
That the number of electoral regions be as follows: 

<graphic href="109131197805044_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

Eligibility for voting: 
That the minimum age for voting and election to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee be 18 years and that the Commonwealth definition of an Aboriginal bc utilised for eligibility. 
How ballot papers marked and system to be used: 
That the voting procedure of 'First past the Post' system be adopted and that photographs be included on the Ballot Papers with a small biography. 
That the electors mark the Ballot Paper by placing an 'X' or a suitable mark alongside the name and photograph of their first preference. 
Body responsible to compile and maintain electoral rolls: 
That the members of the Steering Committee, with the assistance of Aboriginal and Islander people and the Commonwealth Electoral Office, be responsible to compile and maintain the electoral rolls. 
The electoral boundaries were drawn up in conjunction with the Commonwealth Electoral Office and the AttorneyGeneral 's Department and followed fairly distinct lines. The map indicates the final draft. 
Electoral constituencies: 
That the single member constituency electoral system be adopted for the first election of the proposed National Aboriginal body. 
Methods of voting: 
That a combination of polling/postal/roving and absentee methods of voting be adopted for the first election of the proposed National Aboriginal body. 
Timetable for election: 
That the date fixed for the nomination of candidates shall not be less than 7 days nor more than 28 days after the date of closing of the Rolls. The date fixed for the Polling shall not be less than 7 days nor more than 2 1 days after the date that nominations close. The date of the Polling shall be fixed by the National Aboriginal Consultative Council at the meeting in May. 
Nomination of candidates: 
That a candidate be nominated by no less than 6 members entitled to vote in the elections in any electorate, together with a nomination fee of $10.00; that if a candidate receives 20 per cent of the successful candidates votes that the nomination fee of $ 10.00 be returned. 
Polling officials: 
That Polling Officials at the first election of the proposed National Aboriginal Consultative Council include both Aboriginal and Islander officials and officials from the Commonwealth Electoral Office. 
Frequency of elections: 
That the members to the National Aboriginal Consultative Council be elected for a term of two (2 ) years and that they be paid a suitable wage to be fixed and that all expenses in consideration of his work be met by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Other matters: 
1 ) Motions referred to the Steering Committee from the previous National Aboriginal Consultative Council meeting: 
These motions are available on a separate paper to be submitted to the delegates for their consideration. Some have already been implemented and carried out. Others will need re-submission to the National Aboriginal Consultative Council. 
Steering Committee Consultations with State Ministers: 
As directed by the previous N.A.C.C. meeting,  Mr J.  McGinness and  Mr John  Moriarty met with the Ministers/Premiers listed below in the respective States to discuss the transfer of State powers re Aboriginal affairs to the Commonwealth: 
New South Wales-  Mr McGinness  and  Mr Moriarty  met with members of the N.S.W. Steering Committee and discussed the above proposition with the Minister  (Mr Waddy). 
Victoria-  Mr McGinness  and  Mr Moriarty  met with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in Victoria  (Mr Dickie)  and members of the Victorian Steering Committee. 
Queensland- Arrangements were made for the Queensland Steering Committee to meet the Premier,  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen),  but a previous arrangement had already been made for him to meet and discuss this matter, amongst other things, with the Prime Minister. 
South Australia- The South Australian Steering Committee, with  Mr McGinness  and  Mr Moriarty,  met the Premier of South Australia  (Mr Don Dunstan)  and discussed the transfer of powers. 
Western Australia-  Mr McGinness  and  Mr Moriarty  met with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in W.A.  (Mr Thompson)  with the W.A. Steering Committee and discussed transfer of powers. 
Tasmania- A meeting is being arranged between  Mr Ken  Winder and  Mr M.  Miller with the Minister in Tasmania (  Dr Foster)  to discuss transfer of powers. A visit on this occasion will also be made to Flinders Island to meet the Aboriginal Council and explain National Aboriginal Consultative Council proposals. 
It is hoped that all States, immediately after or at some early convenient time, will submit proposals to the Department for the convening of State and/or regional conferences. This is extremely urgent and necessary in view of the need to consult at 'grass roots' level with Aboriginal people and communities. 
It is hoped that arrangements will be made before delegates leave their various States and contact should be made with members of the Steering Committee to ensure that these arrangements are being finalised. 
As the Conference is being convened for two days, it is expected that members will have studied and thought about proposals previous to attendance at the Conference. It is hoped, also, that electoral maps will be available before the Conference, but if this is not possible, then members will receive these maps on the day of their attendance. 
It would be appreciated if members would also make arrangements to be on time at the Conference commencing at 9 a.m. in the morning on Thursday, 3 May, and that they will not leave the Conference until its conclusion, which is presumably S.30 p.m. on Friday night, 4 May. 
Accommodation has been organised for the Kurrajong Hotel and buses will transport people to and from the Academy of Science which is the venue. 
JOHN MORIARTY 
Secretary 
For and on behalf of the Steering Committee of National Aboriginal Consultative Council 
NATIONAL ABORIGINAL CONSULTATIVE COUNCIL 
Proceedings of Meeting- 3 and 4 May 1973 
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE 
Thursday, 3 May andFr1day,4May 
The  Chairman  delivered an opening speech and introduced the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr G.  M. Bryant. The Minister delivered introductory speech. He hoped that the NACC would become part of Government. After he finished his speech he declared the meeting open. The  Chairman  thanked the Minister and introduced the Secretary of the Steering Committee who first asked for apologies from any of the delegates and then spoke on what the Steering Committee had done during its two meetings held on 25-26 February and 19-23 March. The  Chairman  then asked the members about elections of  chairman  for each day. There was an objection from one of the delegates that they were not asked whether Press were to be allowed in the meeting. At this point members divided into States to discuss elections. 
Stewart Murray- Would like to mention a procedural matter. The minutes from the pre-meeting show only the motions. There was some very important discussion in those sessions and they should have been included in the minutes circulated. The minutes from these meetings should show discussion as well as motions. Proceedings should be more like Hansard Parliament Reporting. 
Moved Harold Blair 'That the Chair stand as it is'. No seconder. 
Joe McGinness, Interim Chairman- Called for nominations from the floor for Chairman. 
Nominated and accepted were: 
George Abdullah 
Bruce McGuinness 
Harold Blair 
Moved Sam Watson Snr 'That the meeting accept these three as chairman and that each, in order, do a session each, today, tomorrow morning and tomorrow afternoon'. Seconded Stan McBride. Carried. 
George Abdullah, Chairman, First Session- Reminded the meeting that they were concerned with national issues. 
John Moriarty- The Exernal Territories Department want to do a film of this meeting. He thinks it would be a good idea. They could distribute the films at state level to let the people in regional areas and the people especially at grass roots level know just what is going on with the NACC. 
Gary Foley- Would be agreeable to this on the condition that all future films of the NACC in meeting be done by an Aboriginal film group. 
Chairman- Please put that in a motion. Now the first item on the agenda- whether we admit the press and other media to this meeting. In the past we have kept them out. Would like to hear what the meeting feels on this matter. 
Moved Bruce McGuinness- Seconded Denis Walker That the press, TV, newscasters be excluded until tomorrow'. Carried. Two against. 
Bruce McGuinness moved 'That the words "The map indicates the final draft" be deleted from the second paragraph under the Steering Committee heading "Body Responsible to Compile and Maintain Electoral Rolls" '. Seconded G. Foley. Carried. 
Bruce McGuinness moved 'That the second paragraph, under the heading "Body Responsible to Compile and Maintain Electoral Rolls" be accepted as amended, that is "The electoral boundaries were drawn up in conjunction with the Commonwealth Electoral Office and the Attorney General's Department and followed fairly distinct lines" '. Seconded D. Walker. Carried. 
Bruce McGuinness moved "That the Steering Committee paragraph "Methods of Voting" be adopted, that is "That a combination of polling/postal/roving and absentee methods of voting be adopted for the first election of the proposed National Aboriginal body" '. Seconded G. Foley. Carried. 
Bruce McGuinness moved 'That the first two sentences of the Steering Committee paragraph "Timetable for Election" be accepted, that is "That the date fixed for the nomination of candidates shall not be less than 7 days nor more than 28 days after the date of closing of the Rolls. The date fixed for the Polling shall not be less than 7 days nor more than 21 days after the date that nominations close"'. Seconded G. Foley. Carried. 
Chairman- Next motion is on Electoral Constituencies. 
Gordon Briscoe- We passed a motion that two delegates per region now be elected. 
Bruce McGuinness- Asked if there is such a thing as a two member constituency. 
John Moriarty- Read the motion passed this morning and referred to by Gordon Briscoe. 
Chairman- Have to think about three points: 
1 ) to set a date for the election, 
a date for the closing of nominations of candidates, and 
date for the closing of the rolls. 
Bruce McGuinness- Can we hear from the Secretary some tentative dates put forward for the election. 
John Moriarty- We had proposed that 30 June be the election date but it may be a little premature. If we keep the number of constituencies and the number of elected representatives down, et cetera we might be able to have it in late July or early August. 
Chairman- Can the electoral officer give us some indication. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, on behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I present the Committee's report entitled  Observations and History of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I inform the House that this is the last report to be prepared by the present  Chairman, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I wish to pay, muted a bit by political differences between us, a compliment to his service in this Parliament and to the manner in which he has conducted himself in relation to the duties allocated to him. In recent years perhaps in the face of the kind of opposition that one comes up against in trying to get proper parliamentary government here, some of the success of the committee has been due to his persistence on its behalf. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Why has he deserted the Aboriginal people of Aurukun and Mornington Island? Is it because he is afraid of the political power of the Premier of Queensland, as indicated in the Press statement issued on behalf of the Aurukun people? Is there any evidence that the Premier of Queensland will in future change the habits of a lifetime and place the welfare of the Aboriginal people before other considerations? 
I think that the biblical quotation used by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  would have been better couched in these terms: Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin; And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. It seems to me that the honourable member for Denison and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William 
McMahon) are saying that those who do the least should have the most. That is what this argument is about. I respect the argument that the two honourable gentlemen have placed before the House. Do not let it be thought for a moment that members of the Labor Party have not worried about this general question of retrospectivity as such. Generally speaking, the people whom we represent will be the first victims of the kinds of retrospective laws about which honourable gentlemen opposite talk. To hear the honourable member for Denison say that the legislation will be more dangerous in the hands of a socialist government than his sort of government is, of course, nonsense. We probably all act in much the same way about some sorts of matters under the pressure of critical moments. Is what we are talking about retrospectivity as such? The honourable member for Denison quoted from formidable opinions from the past. He used terms which almost intimidate me, accustomed as I am to be so suffering. He referred to ex post facto law and so on. Is this what we are talking about? I do not think it is. I think that we are talking about taxation adjustments, about the right for people to pay their proper share of the cost of running a nation. 
I think the honourable member for Denison, in his opening remarks, said that the Curran scheme was indefensible. So, what was the Curran scheme? It was a piece of jiggery pokery or financial rigging to escape dudes which were due on 1 July of the current financial year. We say that the fundamental principle is not the question of retrospective law in that sense. It is a matter of what the law said on 1 July 1977. The law said at that time that if a person received so much money in that year he would pay so much taxation. We can call the scheme what we likeevasion, dodging, avoidance or tax bludging, to use a favourite term of those opposite. People should be forced to pay that which was due to be paid when they started out on this racket. I have no sympathy for these people whatsoever. 
When the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  first introduced this legislation I thought of it in much the same way as the honourable member for Denison and the right honourable member for Lowe have now spoken about it. I have since listened to the debate and have examined the situation. I do not claim to have any qualifications in accountancy. I have never had the kind of income whereby I was able to avoid being caught out if I tried to do any taxation rigging and so on. I represent the kinds of people who in the past perhaps were able to get away with some minor piccadillo, such as claiming an extra bottle of ointment from the chemist when they had not actually bought it. We are dealing with a special group of people. I do not think from all I have heard from either side of the Committee or read in letters that have been written to me that this matter has anything to do with retrospectivity in the sense in which we would speak of it. We could talk about a law, say, to outlaw a certain form of union activity as from 14 August last year or what could now be called a certain form of criminal activity. I guess that members on both sides of the Committee on most of these issues would stand as one and not tolerate them. 
What are we about? We are about artificial tax avoidance schemes. I was interested to hear the eloquence of the right honourable member for Lowe. I think he was in the most eloquent form I have heard since I came here. He had five or six years practice before I was elected. He was a bit hurt I think that some people may have appeared to have considered him irrelevant because there was some laughter while he was speaking. I do not think any of us thought him irrelevant. He said something about being glad to know that somebody thought he was right. 
The honourable member is nearly always right but never correct. The facts are that he is running a phoney war. What he is on about will not damage anybody as far as I can see. What have people lost? I have seen no evidence from anywhere of a concrete instance of a person suffering any financial hardship in this matter other than that their expectation of an undue gain will be diminished or removed altogether if the Treasurer has his way. We are all on his side about that. 
My view, the Party's view and, I think, the general community's view, is that people should pay according to their income. I think it is quite false to talk about the division of income and capital and try to divide matters up that way during the year. I have said to this chamber in the past and I repeat: If a person won three-quarters of a million dollars in Tattslotto or some other aberration to which this society is addicted, that money is considered to be a gain. It is just as valuable to him as if he had worked on the wharves and earned three-quarters of a million dollars in some mysterious manner. It could be earned by a person who was a member of Parliament or a tram driver. Of course, if a person drove a tram and received three-quarters of a million dollars, the Treasurer would be after him and would tell him that he has to pay $350,000 in income tax. If the salary of the honourable member for Wills were raised to that sum because of his overwhelming worth as a representative, the Commissioner of Taxation would be after him too. But, of course, that action is not taken when large sums are involved. If a person can make the same amount by way of shares, even if they are not part of his general trading activity, he gets away without paying the same amount of income tax. If a person sells a 1,000 acre property which he has bought on the edge of Melbourne or Sydney some years back or has inherited from his grandparents and makes $Sm, he will keep all that. I do not support that concept at all. If this is the beginning of a thorough re-examination of taxation and of what people should pay, I will support the proposal all the way. If I can be given facts concerning individual cases where people by a means which I would consider legal, decent and honourable back in August are now being inflicted in such a way that they will lose heavily and prejudice their financial future I would say that we should bring in a private members' Bill to ameliorate their lot. I have not heard yet of one single case. 
The right honourable member for Lowe has waxed eloquent on this subject. He talked about democracy. The honourable gentleman has not all that good a record. He came into this Parliament in 1 949. He supported one of the most malevolent pieces of legislation that ever went through this place. I refer to the proposal seeking to achieve the dissolution of the Communist Party. This attempt at the suppression of all the civil liberties was an issue which the people of Australia including, if I remember correctly, the people in his own electorate rejected. It is a pity that people did not carry that rejection further to the ballot box. In these matters it is no good talking about democracy, justice and law if in the past a person's own record is suspect. I think the time is ripe for the Parliament and the whole body of politics to start to look at what we are about in respect of taxation. 
I do not think taxation ought to be used for any purpose other than to raise revenue to run a country. I do not know the budgetary figures for this year; they seem to have slipped out of the Treasurer's grasp. From memory, the 1975 Budget details were something like this: expenditure was $22,000m and $ 19,000m was income. Some $ 17,000m was for actual running expenses. The difference between the $ 17,000m and the $22,000m was for capital works. The actual running expenses of the country were $17,000m and the revenue $19,000m. As an ordinary citizen, when the taxation authorities say to me 'well, Bryant'- I hope referring to myself by name is not a breach of the Standing Orders; a lot of people in Australia want to hear it- 'you this year gained, got or even earned $24,000 and your share of the expenses of running this country is $9,432 ' I will pay willingly if we bring some rationale into this system. We hear the nonsense of taxes on cheques and receipts and all the other rubbish for which Charles I had his head chopped off. 
If this is a step to stop the people who have the run of money and all the rest of it from making a racket of the laws, we are for this legislation. If it will inflict a serious hardship upon people we should ameliorate it in some way subsequently. In regard to the question of retrospectivity, I think that honourable members opposite and those people outside this place who are using the word 'retrospective' are not using it in the sense in which it is applicable in ordinary parlance. The fact of life is that people ought to front up and pay the tax that is due according to the law at the beginning of the financial year. They should have realised that at the commencement of the financial year and they should not have used any kind of trickery to try to avoid paying tax. 
I am fairly certain that the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  is sensitive to what education is all about but is in danger of becoming complacent under the barrage of propaganda which is supporting the Government's failure to do anything effective in the community. What exactly does the Government mean when it talks about annual programs in the education programs of this Government. There are no education programs. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his principal Ministers over the period during which we were in government and in the subsequent two years spent their time denouncing the extravagance of the Australian Labor Party's programs. They have done everything possible to reduce in absolute terms and in relative terms the effort that goes into education. They also are taking up some of those areas in which we took new initiatives and claiming them as their own. For instance, from the way the honourable member for Mallee spoke one would have thought that the idea of making grants and special efforts for disadvantaged schools was the Government's idea. Of course it was not; it was part of the programs initiated and pressed on by the Labor Government. 
As I see the situation, the facts are that the Government's approach to education has disadvantaged the whole education system of Australia. It has been of less disadvantage of course to the non-government schools than to the government schools. It is not facing up to the facts of life as they are developing in this community. The honourable member for Mallee had certain views to express on the Government's economic policies. Of course the Government's economic policies are producing a whole generation of young people who see no future for themselves in the work force. That is having a great impact upon the way in which they look at the relevance of the education system. This will be one of the most socially destructive factors in the future. We on this side would be the last to say that it is not a difficult social and economic question, but the last thing we ought to do is to speak about it with any complacency. We have to resolve this question. What is to be done in the schools to allow people to face their future in a different and changing society? Is any of this legislation preparing people for that? I regret that it is not, not because such technical and financial Bills as these would normally contain such provisions within their structure but because we have to make funds available elsewhere for special areas for other people to get on with the job. 
Ever since I became interested in national policies in education I have been astonished that people are surprised at changes of the growth rate of the student body in the school system of Australia. I recall that not long after I was elected to this Parliament great pressures had already developed in the primary schools system. One needed only to be able to do arithmetic to see that that had happened. As I recall the figures were something like this: There had been, say, 100,000 children born in the years 1943, 1944 and 1945. About three-quarters of a million people returned from the Services and were scattered throughout Australia and commenced families at a much later time than would have been the case, but for the war. A couple of hundred thousand children were born. As a result, in 1953, 1954 and 1955 there were enormous pressures on the primary schools and the people in the education system of Australia were surprised. But one would have thought that even people running the country at that time could have performed the simple arithmetic necessary to foresee that result. These people were equally surprised when six years later- 12 or 13 years after the great increase in the birth rate- the pressures were on the secondary schools. They were just as astonished some 18, 19 or 20 years later in 1967 to 1 970 at the pressures on the universities. Now we are apparently surprised that there has been a diminution of the pressure in some of the secondary areas, despite the fact that one has only to look up the Year Book to work it out. 
Of course educational demands do not come simply from population growth and changes; they come from a big increase in the aspirations of people for their children and the aspirations of the children for themselves, and an increasing number of adults who have aspirations for themselves too. When I started through the school system in the late 1920s and the early 1930s, there were no difficulties about what the aspirations were. A handful of people proceeded through the secondary school system. One knew what one had to teach them. One had to give them reasonable competence in literacy, numeracy and so on. Then they went in to the work force. I think it would have been a good idea if we had kept that system going. I would also say that those remarks apply to the Australian education system of the generations of my grandparents and greatgrandparents and those of my friend from Mallee and most other colleagues here whom I see sitting in the chamber. There is a notable lack of attendance from the people opposite but I have my friends the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  here interested in the subject. 
The generation of the last couple of decades of last century set to work to produce a literate population with a universal school system available to it. Between the 1870s and 1900 the education system turned a 60 per cent literate population into a 100 per cent one. I do not suppose any population is ever 100 per cent literate but the last census before 1900 indicated that the figure was close to that, according to the census takers, anyhow. 
Secondary education was of no real moment other than occasionally in the late twenties and thirties- its development was interrupted by World War II- until the postwar period. Subsequent to achieving the initial impact of secondary education growth, in the course of carrying on the primary school system for another few years we have done nothing to consider what secondary education ought to be about. One of the great problems we face at the moment is what we are to do with those people who find, at the age of 15, 16 or 17, the education system unsatisfactory. There is no place for them in the work force, nor do I think that there ought to be. There ought to be something inside the education system which gives them satisfaction and is relevant to the needs of the community. This seems to me to be an area which can be tackled with any great profit only by the Commonwealth. 
I remind honourable members that some 20 years ago or thereabouts, I believe in May 1958, a debate was initiated on the role of the Commonwealth on education. The question was really whether it ought to be involved. There is now no doubt that it should be. What then are to be its principal functions, in the face of the fact that a century-old education system exists in each of the States? I think that its principal function is to ensure equality for all Australians in regard to access to education, in the quality of education available to them, and in ensuring that there is an increasing relevance in the quality and function of the education that they receive. The problem areas of Australian education, it seems to me, especially in the last two years, have remained largely untouched. One of the objectives of the education program of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975 was to remove the inequalities in Australia's education system. They are still pretty apparent. First, there is the inequality that still exists between the States. Some States have put more effort than have others into education over the century or so since the advent of what used to be called free, compulsory secular education. That has produced differing results in regard to access to universities, in the quality of the schools and in the general quality of the population's understanding of the world in which they live. So there is a geographical base to the inequality in Australian education. That is one of" the areas to which the Commonwealth should attend. 
I rather suspect, in fact I am fairly certain, that the figures that one reads in the schedules of Bills such as the one we have before us, based as they are principally on per capita expenditure, do nothing to iron out those differentials; but the geographical disabilities or inequalities in Australia are not simply restricted to the question of States. I am sympathetic to the point made by my friend from Mallee, that there is no doubt that, despite the rather extraordinary efforts during the last century to create a universal system across Australia, with equal access to quality education from one end of the country to the other, the people in his electorate are probably often disadvantaged by distance and other factors compared with, say, even the people in my own electorate. There are other factors that disadvantage people in electorates such as that of Wills, composed as it is of the suburbs of Brunswick and Coburg in Melbourne. 
A very high quality of education started to develop in part of the electorate of the honourable member for Mallee when I began to teach there in 1939. The war interrupted that. It is relevant at this time to remember that in the township to which I was posted, Mittyack, the best building in the district was in fact the school. That was symbolic of the effort that was put into education by an earlier generation. When we look at other places around Australia we find that a large number of the schools built in the last century were the most significant buildings in their area. 
We find that to be so even in some of the working class suburbs of Melbourne. There are still disabilities imposed upon people in education arising, for instance, from sex: There are more chances for young men than there are for young women. There are more chances for people who are of Australian-born white parentage than for those who are of Australian-born Aboriginal parentage. There are more chances for those who are Australian-born than for those who were not born in Australia and came here as migrants. 
Having due regard to the apparent wish of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  to speak, I will make only one or two other points. We should be applying ourselves now to the general question of ironing out those inequalities, finding new forms of school management, and providing greater access to the Australian Government. 
Government supporters have in the past displayed little regard for my desire to speak in this chamber. It demonstrates the difference between the socialist attitude to people's rights and the attitude of private enterprise. Eventually, and in the not too distant future, I want to see the schedules to this legislation include direct grants to individual schools. In many parts of Australia- and I suspect this applies also in Victoria- we will only get results, particularly in respect of capital works for schools, if we define the school and make a direct grant to the State on the proviso that the money is to be devoted to it. We ought also to look at other ways of financing schools- the guaranteeing of loans, for instance. 
It seems to me to be rather a piquant commentary on Australian society that we have found an easy way for the Commonwealth to support private schools and no easy way to support government schools. We support the loans system for private schools. There is no reason why we should not create an individual authority for every government school, allowing it to do some of the building and borrowing- supported by grants or guarantees by the Commonwealth- on its own account. There are two areas to which we should apply ourselves: First, we should exert continuing pressure to create an equal access system throughout Australia and raise the quality of education. The other is that of examining the management of Australia's school system and making sure that it is more appropriate for the communities in which schools are found. On the understanding that the next time I stand up to speak the honourable member for Hume will not vote for the gag, I propose to conclude my remarks. I will await his observations with fervent interest. 
-I will be brief. Recently in a debate in this Parliament a question was raised about the high cost of salaries in the tertiary education area. There is no doubt that tertiary education is one of the most important functions in our society. It is the area from which we produce the professional people, the highly trained scientists and so on, and I would not want it to go unnoticed that this was an attack upon what I think are the necessary standards of salaries paid to people in this part of the work force. In recent years a great change has taken place in Australian salaries. The salaries of the public service have risen in line with the rest of the community, and so they should. The salaries of people in the academic area have risen in line with other salaries, and so they should. The salaries of the people in the teaching service also have risen and in many instances they should have risen more. I do not think there is any profit in regarding the matter in that way. It will be the case for all time that education is one of the real labour intensive service industries. It demands from people as much dedication as anything else. In many instances it demands higher qualifications and longer training than any other field of endeavour. We in this House want to be careful, even though we may place what might be called arithmetical facts before it, that we place this matter in its proper social context. We should place the same values upon the work of federal members of Parliament, if it comes to that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Only a handful of honourable members from this side of the House here this afternoon were members during  Sir Robert  Menzies' term of office. Over the long period in which I knew him and the longer period in which I knew of him, I always regarded  Sir Robert  Menzies, both privately and publicly as a gracious person. One would not ordinarily apply that term to someone who was such a vigorous political opponent. I recall that on the first occasion on which I used that term about him in my electorate I was chided by my political supporters. But he was accessible to people from our side of the House who wanted to approach him as the Prime Minister or on some parliamentary matter and on such occasions he was gracious in dealing with the matters placed before him. 
I recall approaching him during a period in the development of Aboriginal advancement policies and asking him to see the Aboriginal people themselves so that they could discuss the matter with him, He agreed to do so. He concurred with the idea that their fares ought to be met. He met them in the Cabinet room and they had a lengthy discussion. I learnt a technique of politics from that. I saw on that day, for the first time, that he actually saw this as a matter in which he should deal with the people directly, in a personal, human way. That does not mean that he did not often deal with other matters in that way. In politics it is terribly important to remember that human issues can only be learned and discharged by actual human confrontation and consultation. So, on a day such as today people are inclined to remember all those acts of grace and those matters on which they concurred over the long period of association with him. 
There is likely to be built up an aura of nostalgia about the period in which I entered this Parliament. It was a time of great tumult in Australian politics. I hope that when people remember the current period they will think of those who sit here today in a parliamentary sense in a similar way to the way in which they think of the people who were here when I came to office. I refer to people on the other side of the House such as  Sir Robert  Menzies himself,  Sir Arthur 
Fadden,  Sir Eric  Harrison and  Mr Anthony,  and to people on our side such as  Dr Evatt,  Arthur Calwell, Reg Pollard, Eddie Ward, Leslie Haylen and Allan Fraser. I consider them to have been men of great parliamentary stature. I hope that when people look back in 20 or 30 years' time they will see that we had  people of  that stature. 
I would say that the evaluation of him from my side of politics would be that his contribution to the Australian scene was stability. He was a man with a conservative nature.  His  objective in politics was to continue the status quo with amendments. I would say from this side of the House- perhaps many of his friends from the other side would say it also- that the amendments to the status quo were driven on him, accepted and carried through, often as tentatively as possible. However, the point was made here this afternoon by someone on the opposite side of the chamber that at least he did expand the area of activities of this Parliament. He did that gradually but it happened. I suggest that some of the things which are happening now represent a reversal of that trend. 
We need to remember, however, that his life was not one of total victories. He had lost touch with the Australian psyche when he left office in 1941. That was not a temporary situation; it was eight years before he came back into office. It should be remembered that in the great tumult of the early 1950s and the confrontation in the community over civil rights, and in particular over the Communist Party Dissolution Bill and so on, he locked horns with another very great Australian in  Dr Evatt.  On that particular issue  Dr Evatt  was the victor. But that is the way politics goes. Early in his political career I think  Sir Robert  was pretty ruthless in the pursuit of his aims. In later years, during my time in the Parliament, he mellowed. He was the master of the scene. He was a giant amongst his contemporaries, particularly those who sat on the same side of the House as he did. That is no reflection on those people because he was a long survivor. 
On this occasion I recognise that the Menzies family has lost a person who must have meant an enormous amount in the family life. He meant a good deal in Australian life also. I think that one of the factors of our democracy is that we feel that even those who are on the side of politics different from our own, even those who in the political sense we hold in great contempt or hatred, are part of our own lives. So this afternoon I record my regret at the passing of a gracious Australian, a man who I think held more to stability than to progress. I think that is the way in which he will be registered in the record books. But he was a man who, whenever faced with a proposition at close quarters, would decide both on the side of justice and on the side of mercy. I think we should remember that one does not win much in the political scene in Australia unless one pursues one 's aims with persistence, and often with ruthlessness. I think they were characteristics which he had. But, as I say, they were tempered with acts of grace, whenever the occasion arose, in dealing with his colleagues. On afternoons such as this I heard him pay compliments and tributes to people about whom I could think of little to say. 
I know that these remarks will be passed on to his family, members of whom I know. I recall occasions when his grandchildren met him outside Parliament House. Those occasions gave one a different picture of the man in his family life. I recognise that on occasions such as this we make evaluations which are probably clouded more with nostalgia and regret than with objectivity; but I have no doubt that, even those who hold the political views that I do, which are in vigorous opposition to those he held, will still register their regard for those achievements of which we approve and even, in many cases, some of which we disapprove. 
-The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  always manages to bring an air of objectivity into his statements in this place, but when one examines them, of course, they carry no more weight in regard to the situation of the world at large, and Australia in particular, than statements of the other spokesmen on that side. 
That is reasonable enough; so he ought to. Let us just take the theme of the last few minutes of his speech. I will be brief. He talked about Australia 's wealth. It is true that per capita we probably have more wealth at our disposal than any other country in the world. Yet this Government over the last two and a half years has taken every possible step to run down its capacity to take on hand those duties which the honourable member said we ought to accept for the rest of the world. How can we help feed the hungry people if we are starting to slow down government activity in this country, which is the basis of so much of the infrastructure upon which we build our industry? How can we carry out our duty if we leave the wealth lying idle? The wealth is not only in the machines but also in the people. There are half a million people idle who would like to be working. 
I listened to the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  to whom I always listen with a great deal of interest. I know of nobody who can bring into a speech in this House, particularly when he is dealing with the economy, a more ritualistic approach. I jotted down a few of his comments as he spoke. He seems to represent Stonehenge here. He seems to be solid, steady, in place, immobile, inert and not terribly productive, just producing some piece of idolatry. So here we have it. It seems to me that at the moment we are like somebody locked in a supermarket over a weekend. There it all is. The shelves are stocked with everything that that person needs to live but he practically dies of starvation because he cannot work the cash register. That is what this Government is doing. 
It was handed an economy which had some points of weakness. Unemployment was higher than was desirable, inflation was higher than desirable, but there were areas of strength that made it one of the strongest economies in the world. Exports were much higher than imports, our overseas reserves were high, the average weekly earnings of Australians were amongst the highest in the world and Australians could buy more for their average weekly earnings at that time at the end of 1975 than they could almost anywhere else in the world and certainly more than at any other stage in Australian history. I ask honourable members to simply do some arithmetic relating to the cost of things that people need and their earnings. So this continual nonsense has been poured upon the efforts of the Labor Government which changed Australia for the better. I am tired of listening to the jargon about market places, consumer confidence and so on. My friends opposite seem to be living in the past. They are qualified to be members of the flat earth society when it comes to the modern society. This is a period of total change, absolute change. As my friend from North Sydney pointed out about the people to our north, we have to change our whole attitudes and those attitudes are changing. In fact even the honourable member's attitude has changed in part. For instance, the attitude to China of honourable members opposite has changed dramatically in the last three or four years. 
This debate is not just about the economy. It is about Supply Bills (Nos 1 and 2) 1978-79 and is about the way the country is run. My friend from Shortland  (Mr Morris)  was correct in taking an area of government policy and examining it. I propose to do the same on a matter which has now been taken up by the world at large in New York this week. A few weeks ago the Opposition attempted to move in this House a motion of public importance on the question of disarmament. We were disappointed that the Government had taken no steps towards telling us what it would do about the disarmament conference beginning in New York this week- in fact I think it started yesterday- and which will continue for six weeks or seven weeks. It is a most dramatic exercise by the United Nations. This evening I will ask the Parliament to attend to the general question of disarmament and to encourage the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  when he goes to New York to take a more dramatic and more positive stance on what I think is one of the great needs of this time. 
It is true that everything we talk about here is important, that the poverty of the people to the north is a serious disability to the world, that the hunger is distressing and disastrous, that disease is rampant in places where it ought not to be, that we ought to expand trade, that inflation is a problem and that unemployment is a problem. But they all pale into insignificance compared with the threat to the world and to the continuance of humanity by the great arms race which continues, despite the change in the world at large. So we have to ask ourselves before we start to try to convince other people to disarm and to bring arms under control: Why arms? Why are people arming themselves so heavily now when in fact the threats of war are receding and everybody says so? The Government looks for arms for national security. There is a vested interest in arms production and that vested interest belongs to several groups of people. There are the people who work in the Services. In Australia, for instance, 70,000 people work full time in the Services. Their families are concerned and so are the communities such as Seymour in Victoria, and Rockhampton and Townsville in northern Australia. There is a whole industrial base and also national pride and the aggrandisement to which governments have often been prone in the past. But what is the score now? The foreseeable future does not hold the threat of global war. Optimistically I think we can say that a big war is unlikely. It is improbable that the Russians will attack the Americans or that the Americans will attack the Russians. What advantage would they get even if they won? They would both inherit deserts, they would both be impoverished, and any people who were left would be miserable and very difficult to control. I do not believe that there is a real threat of war between the big nations any longer. But I am pessimistic enough to see in the events in Zaire, in the Horn of Africa, in various things that are happening between Cambodia and Vietnam, threats to humanity, threats that may possibly grow into threats to the rest of us. 
I believe that the arms trade is the generator of all those threats. If the world arms merchants did not supply the arms, that could not continue. I make this plea tonight: That we do something more dramatic at the United Nations over the next five weeks. It is a unique opportunity. There are things we should look at and consider. The matter ought to be debated at length in this House. The Minister for Foreign Affairs did make a statement here but we did not have a chance to debate it. Every one of us is concerned with it so tonight I take this opportunity in this discussion on the Supply Bills to raise the general question of our aims in this regard. 
There ought to be some general international techniques developed. We have to encourage the arms traders, the nations which trade in arms, to stop supplying them to the nations which are now killing one another. How long could the war and conflict in the Middle East go on at its present scale if the governments of Russia and the United States of America cut off the arms supply? One thing that baffles me about the  President  of the United States of America- and there is a great deal of humanity in what he has said and in the objectives that he has promulgatedis the decision that he has just made to supply incredibly powerful weapons to both sides in the conflict. How can anybody of logic believe in that? He has also decided, through the voice of Vice-President Mondale, to supply war planes to Indonesia, our nearest neighbour. 
I am optimistic enough to think that it is possible to start to slow down this whole system, that there are echoes from the past which tell us that that can be done. I am suggesting that we should be pressuring governments in surrounding areas to create demilitarised zones as big as possible and as effective as possible- places with no barracks, no fortifications and no military establishments. We may well be a little cynical about the possibility of that occurring if it were not for the facts of history. Back in 1817, going on to 1822, the British Government and the Canadian Government were in serious difficulties with one another over on the Great Lakes area. We forget this part of history, but in that period Canada and the United States were threatened by war. What prevented the war developing? Not the fact that they had a common race, a common language and common interests and background but the total scrapping of fortifications along the line of the frontier. That was organised by the Foreign Secretary of Britain at the time, Lord Castlereagh. The historians of that century attributed the peace achieved along those frontiers to that fact. They are not the only such occurrences; there are other instances. In 1905, with the separation of Sweden and Norway into two countries, the Karlstad Convention established a demilitarised zone of 20 miles across, 10 miles on each side of the frontier, and 200 miles long and that has been in force ever since. In 1922, under the Treaty of Lausanne between Greece and Turkey, a demilitarised zone of 60 kilometres, 30 on each side, was established. Our own Antarctic Treaty was established in 1 959. 
Who are the villains of the piece? I do not think we can say this too strongly: They are the arms traders. The great arms traders, of course, are the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Britain and France. The involvement of other countries is minute in comparison. Czechoslovakia on occasions has exported a good deal and so has the Federal Republic of Germany, but compared with the great arms manufacturers they are small fry indeed. Of these four countries, the USSR exported about 33.4 per cent of the arms exported to the Third World countries; the USA 31 per cent; the United Kingdom 15 per cent; and France 9 per cent. If those countries desisted from that dreadful trade they would be contributing a great deal to the creation of a world of peace. 
What should we be doing in our own area? Again, this is one of those points which are very difficult to discuss at any other time. When the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  made his statement about the tactical fighter force there was no opportunity for most of us on this side of the House or in any part of the House to debate the matter. We are presently considering the reequipment of the Royal Australian Air Force with very expensive, very sophisticated, very powerful but I think totally irrelevant fighter aircraft. 
Who are our neighbours? One is Indonesia. I have no time for the Government of Indonesia. I have hopes for Indonesia in the future to continue on the path of peace and to become a good neighbour to all of us but there is no doubt that it has been a bad neighbour to the Timorese people. Its activities in Irian Jaya are no better. We have Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Papua New Guinea, the islands around to our east, and New Zealand. What we should be doing is initiating an attitude that no arms race shall occur here. The thought of an arms race is quite ridiculous when one considers the history of this country and this region and considers the foreseeable future. In 1939 about 8,000 or 9,000 people were engaged in regular service. There was a threat of war from Japan and war developing in Europe. In 1 978, when there is no threat of war, we have 70,000 people in the armed services and we are expanding our capacity to fight and fire. I think it is time that we stopped and took a good look at the whole system. The things that Australia can do are these: We can start to discourage the great nations who are now the arms suppliers from continuing to supply arms. We should be mobilising all those nations which are similar to ours- there are probably 40 or 50 of them, some of them with dictators at the helm, some of them with democratic governmentsand we should be using every pressure upon those nations to stop the arms trade. In our own area we should be concentrating on attempting to create an area of peace and good order. 
There is no doubt- and a great body of world opinion now accepts this-that the arms race is the greatest threat to the security of the world. The people who participate in it will be looked upon as the villians of this period of history. I ask the House to apply itself to this question much more thoroughly than it has been doing. We have to reach the stage where we neither sell arms to other people nor buy arms from them. I think we have to reduce the hostility of the general approach to Russia. Russia was on our side in two world wars. I do not think much of the way in which Russia is governed or of some of the antics of its Government and some of the more terrible things that it does, but I have been to Russia and I know many Russians. They yearn for peace just as we do; they are probably in the same situation as the rest of the world. They have an enormous commitment to manufacture arms and they do not quite know how to stop. We have to attempt to get the Americans and the Russians out of bases in the Indian Ocean or to prevent them from establishing themselves there. 
There are signs of hope. The formation of the European Economic Community is a very hopeful sign. Little as I was in World War I, I belong to the generation which saw the world committed to destroying itself by the conflicts between basically the French and the Germans in Europe. Those barriers have now fallen down and the countries have formed a community among themselves. But I think one of the greatest signs of hope around the country is the total change in the attitude to China. Six or seven years ago- m fact, up until five years agohonourable members on the Government side would not even recognise the existence of China. Now, every one of them is visiting that country if possible. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  goes; the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party goes; others go. We are all keen to be friends with China. If a long-held attitude to a country such as China can change as dramatically as that, we can change our attitudes to the rest of the world by applying ourselves to these matters. 
I hope that we will do something more dramatic about this disarmament conference than appears to be the case at the moment. Why is no Opposition representative going? I understand that the Prime Minister is likely to turn up. I know that the Minister is going. There will be a delegation of officials of some tonnage. Why will there be no representative of the Opposition? I think it is important that the people of the world see that on this matter- diffident and inhibited as I think the approach of the Government is- there is a bipartisan approach. None of us on this continent is committed to aggression. I suppose this country has been involved in wars as much as other countries. One can visit the Australian War Memorial and see written on the walls the names of one hundred thousand-odd Australians who have died on battlefields. But after the battles were over men came home. In many respects in the fields of imperialism and militarism, I suppose we could claim to be close to being cleanskins. We could be part of the mobilisation system of world opinion to try to break these barriers. 
What on earth do the people around the Indian Ocean want so many arms for? Around the Indian Ocean area we are the wealthiest people I suppose, with South Africa being the next. But this area also has some of the most poverty stricken people in the world such as in Bangladesh, India and Pakistan. When I look at the figures for expenditure on arms in Pakistan I am shocked and amazed at the state to which the country has come. I am asking that we take to the United Nations a total commitment to continue to fight- if that is not a contradictory use of the word- for disarmament and arms control. We should try to let people see that a common-sense approach to the modern world does not require the re-equipment of armies and the fantastic expenditure and intellectual energy that goes into the arms race. I hope that at some stage before the House adjourns the Minister will come into the chamber and make a statement of exactly what he proposes to do. 
Before I sit down I repeat the remarks with which I began this speech in response to honourable members on the Government side. The burning issue in this country is the way it is run economically. I know there is a serious conflict of view between honourable members on the Government side and ourselves. I think they belong to the past. They fail to recognise the pattern of change that is occurring. I represent one of the great industrial areas of Australia. I know that there is no future for full employment in the manufacturing industry unless the biggest customer of all- that is governments- get into the business. It is absolute nonsense to reduce public expenditure and government activity at a time when there are great social and other constructive needs in the community, and when the only customer- that is the Government- is getting out of the business. I can not understand how honourable members on the Government side can swallow so enthusiastically and then regurgitate in speeches here, the outmoded theories of the last 30 years. 
-The Austraiian Labor Party does not oppose the Australian Science and Technology Council Bill. We recognise that some years of effort, search and thinking have gone into the production of this document. However, we do not think that it answers all the questions that this side of the chamber would pose, nor does it create an institution which has features that we think would be desirable in a council that is going to deal with the important area of science. We know that the Council will have no executive function, but I do not think that is important. As I understand the position, one of the great struggles in science for governments all around the world has been to gather together the threads and to ensure that no inhibitions are created by governmental or bureaucratic action but that there is also a proper conservation of energy in the development of science policy. 
I feel quite strongly about this subject as a result of my membership of this Parliament and of one of the councils established by the Parliament. The Opposition's third paragraph of the amendment should be adopted because it would allow the Council to take initiatives on its own account. I cannot understand why we should place upon the Council the inhibition that the relevant clause of this Bill places upon it. We are proposing to invite some of the most distinguished people in the field of science to serve on this Council. Yet we are placing upon it the restriction that it can act only upon the Minister's direction, or that seems to be the meaning of the clause as it appears in the Bill. I do not approve of that, and I think the Committee should adopt the third paragraph of the Opposition's amendment. I cannot understand why honourable members opposite have any doubts about adopting that course. 
Members on this side of the chamber do not like the secrecy provisions of the Bill. They appear to me to be very inhibiting indeed. Clause 26 applies to members of the Council and to members of a committee appointed under section 24, to members of the staff of the Council and so on. It states in part: 
A person to whom this section applies shall not, either directly or indirectly, except for the purposes of this Act or with the permission of the Council- 
make a record of, or divulge or communicate to any person, any information . . . 
That seems to me to be a token of a sense of secrecy and confidentiality about the system which is undesirable. 
I have looked at it, and I know that there are reservations further on in that clause. I have also been a member of this place for a long while. I have watched governments in action. I also know that many of the people who are employed in these situations are inhibited by the look of the legislation. I think that this is an unduly inhibiting clause and it ought not to be in the Bill. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  ought to know that many of the provisions in legislation are much more restrictive because of the atmosphere they create than because of the technical legal meaning of them. I think that that has an inhibiting impact. 
The second paragraph of the Opposition's amendment relates to access to reports. I was anxious tonight to speak about the membership of the Council. We have moved an amendment to the composition of the Council and a change in the clause which covers the period of membership. I want to put before the Committee the desirability of appointing members of Parliament to this body. For many years now I have represented this Parliament and this House in particular on the Council of the National Library of Australia. I served on that Council for a good number of years, and during my membership of the Ministry that Council service was undertaken by  Mr Cross,  the then member for Brisbane. Before I served on that Council this side of the chamber was represented on that Council by the late Leslie Haylen. The other side of politics was represented by  Sir Alister  McMullen, and is represented now by  Senator Gordon  Davidson. I am quite confident that all the members of the Council during that period would agree that the members of Parliament who served on it fulfilled a useful purpose and brought to it a breadth of understanding of the political structure that is desirable for anybody who is going to be a part of government. I only hope that it also helped in our understanding of the body. I suggest that we ought to give some thought to a provision being included in the House of Representatives Standing Orders for reports from people who serve in that way to be placed periodically before the Parliament. At page 1515 of today's Notice Paper there is a list setting out the House of Representatives appointments to committees of this nature. 
I think that the actual structure of the Science and Technology Council has to be changed in the way in which the Opposition has submitted. As I see the position, we can argue about numbers for any length of time, but our tendency will be to appoint people who are busy and important and who have an established status in the field of science. The problem is to match their experience with the dynamics that people who are just beginning a career can provide. I know that there is provision for advisory committees and so on to assist, but as far as I can see this will be an unduly restricted and structured body. The honourable member for Hotham has a right to hold a different opinion. As I understand his position, he has had a good deal of experience in life outside this place. I have had a good deal of experience inside this place and in government. 
We face here the establishment of a council that has to accept a very great intellectual challenge. I do not think we have faced up to the great problems of science in relation to the community. There has been a growing uneasiness over the last 20 years, in the minds of all those who are concerned with social progress, about the conflict between scientific progress and the needs of society generally. It is for that reason that the Opposition has suggested in one paragraph of its amendment that the functions of the Council be changed to allow for a greater social input and a great study of the social implications of what we do. One of the oddities of our community at the present moment is that we are very careful of the environment. We want environmental impact statements before we cut down a tree. We do not seem to worry about what we do when we are going to cut down people. In our economic considerations there is very little concern for the people who are going to be struck down by changes in economic policy. If we are going to do anything to the environment we expend a great deal of care upon it, but I think the time has long passed since we gave serious consideration to people. 
The Science and Technology Council ought to be charged with the responsibility of ensuring that science fulfils that role. The Opposition makes the point that the Council is unduly structured towards industrial and commercial usage of science. It is unduly restrictive in its membership and is unduly restrictive in the scope of its inquiries. It is unduly restrictive in its capacity to inform itself of its own motion. I suggest to the honourable member for Hotham, who is taking a deep interest in this subject, that one of features of government that beset us continuously is the tendency to restrict the activities of the bodies we establish. As long as the Minister has the power to intervene when he thinks that people have gone overboard about something, that should be adequate. Until the Council has established that it is unable to act with responsibility on its own initiative, we ought not to restrict its activities. 
-The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  expanded on several points made from this side of the chamber. I want to take together clauses 6 and 26- the clause which deals with reporting and the one which deals with secrecy- and amplify if possible the point I was making that in many of these areas it is not exactly the legal prohibition that stops people working; but the inhibitions that flow from what they think is the situation. The same applies to the ministerial proscription upon what the council may or may not do. If we are to create an instrument by which science and technology are expanded, the intellectual challenge is taken up and the far edge of scientific research, as. my colleague the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  put it, is continuously expanded by encouragement from a public body, we must remove the inhibitions. 
I cannot quite understand the necessity for some parts of clause 6. For instance, take that part which regards as greatly secret and confidential and possibly destructive anything that may come before the council and be let out from its deliberations which would affect the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States. We are not going to have the present Queensland Government there forever trying to inhibit the things that this Commonwealth does. I was a bit surprised at the assertion of the honourable member for Hotham that we would cripple the independence of the council if we put members of this Parliament on it. I know that internally in this Parliament we are not all that free. I know that honourable members opposite toe the party line. I know that on this side when we mark down the party line democratically we all toe it. So in the public debate here tonight I am careful of what I say, as always. For instance, I do not want to offend my friend the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  but I think it is fair to say that the great proportion of people in this Parliament, when they are facing up to the ordinary community gatherings, when they sit on community deliberations, when they go to meetings of other bodies to which they belong or of which they have membership, are probably the most free spirits in it. We are accountable to a particular group of people in a particular sort of way. If we are not afraid of the people in our electorates we do not need to be afraid of much else. 
It is my experience that the people who are likely to produce the most outward-going view of situations are the people who have had a strong political background and training in an institution such as this one. I think that the honourable member for Hotham must be having a very chastening experience on his side of the Parliament if in the few months that he has been here he feels that he has lost all his independent spirit. As I understand the honourable gentleman, one of the products of private enterprise is that free flowing expression of the human spirit which creates a totally different view of things from that held by we humble downtrodden people on this side. That is what I thought was his view. What do I find? The honourable member said that it would cripple the independence of this council to put members of the Parliament on it. If in six months or thereabouts membership of that party on that side of the Committee has managed to cripple his independent spirit, it is a sad case indeed. I do not presume that it has. I think honourable members should stop speaking in that way about membership of this Parliament. I am convinced from my own personal experience that members of this Parliament have a great deal to contribute to bodies such as the one we are discussing. Therefore I ask honourable members opposite to place a vote of confidence in themselves and accept the Opposition's amendment. 
-During the Committee stage it was pointed out that we had not covered fully some of the matters that were dealt with by the proposed amendments. I think it should be made clear, and for the record, that there was a very restricted period available for this debate. Given the opportunity to do so we would have dealt with the Bill satisfactorily and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  would not have been able to make such an inadequate reply at the end of the Committee stage after he had listened to our advice. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I just want to raise one question. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-We have just listened to the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  express his rather Utopian view of the Liberal Party. It is a pity that he did not read his speech before speaking this afternoon. If he had done so he would have seen the complete nonsense of it all. It has nothing to do with reality- that is all that is wrong with it. I think the honourable member expressed the view that home ownership will be made easier by selling houses to housing commission tenants at market cost for cash. That is a terribly simple operation these days. I do not even know what 'market cost' means. We can talk about the cost of a house when we put it up and its market price now, but what on earth is the market cost? The honourable member for Kingston gave a rather odd apologetic speech for the Liberal Party and his Government. He used terms which have become part of the mythology of Australian politics. He talked about the heavy-handed centralist dictatorship. He was, of course, speaking about the Labor Government of 1972 to 1975, the Government which initiated innovative schemes in schools and introduced the Australian Assistance Plan and self-determination and selfgovernment for Aboriginal people on their land. 
The honourable member talked about militant unionism putting up the cost of housing. It would not be a bad idea if he went off and found out exactly what has happened to the labour cost in housing. Over the last five or six years it has diminished as a proportion of the cost of housing. Then the honourable member talked about the long term bond rate. I am always intrigued with that term. Apparently the long term bond rate is an objective force in the Australian economy over which humanity and governments have no management or control. Who sets it? The honourable member can explain that to me afterwards. Then he spoke about interest rates. He said that interest - 
I think that we can explain that to the honourable member afterwards but not in the time that I am allowed in this debate. It is obvious that I would have to explain it two or three times. The honourable member used this wonderful terminology- it is hardly terminologyand said that interest rates are not increasing, although he did admit that they would be going up. I am lost as to what that means. He spoke also of market related rents and things such as that. No social area is more beset with nonsense than housing, particularly when it is what might be termed public housing or publicly-owned housing. There is no policy on housing; there is no philosophy on housing. We on this side of the House admit that we are searching for a philosophy. We have to make a completely new analysis of the social and economic situations and of the financial structures that we can put behind housing. In 1972 we inherited the formula which had been used since 1945 under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. This was an advance on the previous system established in the late 1930s but we all must now look for a new approach to housing. What on earth do we mean by such terms as market-related rents', 'economic rents', and  family income as related to rents '? 
I know what the honourable member would do. He is one of the apostles of private enterprise and exploitation, and of grinding people down. So I know what he would do. We are always searching for a magic formula but there is none. The objectives which the Government has spelt out, of adequate housing for all, of home ownership for all income groups and of ensuring economic conditions which will permit a stable and adequate building industry, are laudable. However, how far do this Government's economic policy and the housing policy of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  go towards achieving those objectives? They do nothing. The fact is that the achievement of housing for all people is further away than it was even 10 years ago, and certainly three or four years ago. There is nothing in this legislation which will guarantee it or improve the situation. 
The Australian scene is clear enough. It is true that all Australians probably would like a home of their own, a spot of their own, by whatever means make it easy to them to get hold of it. The most desirable system we have had- it has been amended a bit- was the original Defence Service Homes Scheme, or the War Service Homes Scheme as it was known up until not so long ago, which created the opportunity for people to achieve home ownership in the most flexible way. They could do what they wanted with the housing and, as the great proportion of the funds for the scheme came from public funds, the Government was able to provide finance at very low interest rates. That system has been under constant and persistent attack for a long while. There are all sorts of reasons why that system ought to be maintained. 
I regard home ownership, or the occupancy of a piece of property and a home which we can call our own and with which we can do what we like, as a fundamental social need. The size of the house is something to which we have paid very little attention. As houses have become more complicated inside they have generally speaking become smaller inside. As we put in more power points, more refrigerators and more heating we reduced the size of the house. The house in which I was born some time back had fair sized rooms of 15 or 16 feet square with ceilings of nine feet or 10 feet. Of course, it had nothing much else. However, as time has gone by we have got down to rooms measuring nine feet by 10 feet in Government houses- in all sorts of houses- as an average second or third bedroom. We have also reduced the capacity for privacy inside the modern home because of the size and structure of the home and the way we use the space. 
We are beset with all sorts of odd emotive attacks upon the system by people who like to call themselves planners. We talk about the suburban sprawl. This has always intrigued me. In Melbourne the great planners in the Housing Commission who talk about the suburban sprawl said that we should put up blocks of flats. Now such places tower all over Melbourne and Sydney and elsewhere and people are living 21 floors up. However, the people who designed these buildings went out to live at Warrandyte, Mount Eliza and places like that. They made sure that they were not part of the system. We talk about the waste of resources because people have a half or a quarter acre of land or a 60 foot land frontage, but as life goes on, as society changes and as we have more leisure and all the things that go with the reduction in working hours and the demands of working times upon us, the more space we need around us. There are people who disagree with that but in general that seems to me to be the objective of most people I know, no matter what their wealth or station. 
Apart from the few little extras that go into houses, generally speaking most Australians are not ostentatious about housing. They need plenty of space and they need privacy, comfort, security and the services that go with housing. Has this legislation done anything to assist in that direction? No. This is not because of the technical machinery of the legislation but because of the philosophy behind it, as it was expounded by the honourable member for Kingston who spoke about market rates and all that nonsense. 
Let me pause for a moment to look at the question of interest. I am regarded as a slight heretic on this side of the House on the question of interest but, disregarding the basis upon which interest is generally calculated as part of the economy, the fact is that interest rates have become a generator of inflation and not a product of it. When we put up interest rates five years ago it was part of the economic theory of the timeand still is- that interest rates had to be closely related to inflation rates, but the fact is that once interest rates rise to 7 per cent or 8 per centhonourable members can do their own calculationsthe cost of the money, particularly for housing is often greater than the cost of bricks and window panes and other materials. We have to find new techniques of handling that problem. 
I want also to speak this afternoon as the former Minister for the Capital Territory because I can bring to the notice of honourable members my experience of the Australian Capital Territory housing system. For the benefit of honourable members, most of whom come into the place and go out again at a rate of knots, the Australian Capital Territory housing system is a very large system, particularly in view of the size of the population. It is nearly as large as the operations of the Western Australian Housing Commission. There are 11,000 units, including flats, in the system and rents this year will gather in about $20m. The maintenance of the dwellings will cost approximately $4m and the cost of administration will be about $2m or $3m but this cost is not easily determined. The interesting question is what has been the capital outlay since the system started in 1924 or thereabouts. I would think it would be about $ 150m. It is hard to determine the outlay exactly because back in the 1930s the figures were buried too deeply in Budget papers and elsewhere. What is the capital value of the dwellings today? It is at least $350m. Apart from that, the system has made loans to about 20,000 people. So when we look at formulae and talk of market rates and so on let us consider what we are really talking about. One of the great problems as I see it is that we are inclined to look upon a house as having an easily determined life. It has no such thing. There are houses in my electorate - 
-And it depends of how they are built. It is remarkable how long houses will stand. For instance the most humble houses in this city are those in the Causeway. They were put up in the 1920s at a cost of $1,463 each. The rent on an average house in that area that is still occupied, but not many of them are now, on rough calculation has amounted to $6,800. What is the economic rent of those places as a piece of investment? 
I shall cite another example of what might be called the long life of houses. There are houses in my electorate that were built during the Depression in the 1890s. At that time they were empty so people were paid five shilings a week to live in them. They now sell for $25,000 to $30,000 and are let at $40 to $50 a week. So what are we talking about when we talk about terminating loans, amortisation and all the rest of it? I think these are irrelevant to a public housing, commercially operated policy. I cite a couple of examples of the better class of house, those which were built in the 1930s in this city. For example, a brick house in Griffith cost $3,668 at that time. We have collected over $ 1 3,000 in rent on that house so far. I know of one in Ainslie which cost $4,337. So far we have collected over $13,400 in rent. What does that house owe us? We have collected about three times the capital outlay over that period. What are those houses worth now? They are worth at least $30,000 each. As a matter of fact, considering their location and their proximity to the city, they are probably worth more. I have given a rough estimate. 
They are publicly owned houses. They are part of the Canberra rental stock. The honourable member owns them. He has one fourteen-millionth of them, and so have 1. 1 am pleased to be a partner in the ownership with him. 
-That is right. If we are not careful, the honourable member will pull them down and do something else with them. So the same thing applies to the whole system. Victoria has about 36,000 units; Western Australia has about 14,000 units. I looked at some of the figures a while ago in an attempt to determine the actual capital investment, the maintenance cost per house, the actual rental return, and so on. It is a remarkably difficult piece of arithmetic because the housing commissions of the States are not much more informative than are our own documents. Generally speaking, it costs about $2.50 a week maintenance in most of the public housing systems of Australia. 
I remind honourable members of the situation in Canberra. I suggest that we give over these formulae, and that we do not talk about economic rent. What on earth has rent got to do with a person's income? The rent ought to be low enough so that no matter what a person's income is, he can afford to live in that house. When a person buys a pound of butter or a motor car or anything else, he is not asked what his pay is. We do not allow the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to run a market rate on its steel. That is why we have a Prices Justification Tribunal. If BHP were to say: We can get better money for our steel if we reduce our production to 5 million tonnes from 6 million tonnes', we would drop on them like a tonne of bricks. Of course that would not happen. In this city, because of the way in which the Gorton Government handled the land, because of the shortage of houses in use and because of some of the things that were done, an artificial shortage was created. So rents rose, and the people in the system- Treasury officials and such like- said: 'Look, the market rate is such and such. That is what you should charge '. 
I think we should bring to this problem the kind of commercial expertise that members whom I see opposite me claim to have. We should put up our houses on the same basis as we do anything else. We should look at them as a continuing investment of equity capital. That is what so much of private enterprise does. BHP does not pay interest or dividends on all the capital employed in that company; neither does CSR Ltd, although we do get a lot of advice from its general manager as to how we should run the country. So when we invest our equity capital in this way, we should determine what is a reasonable term and, if one likes, what is a reasonable profit 
In the Australian Capital Territory, what is a reasonable profit? Let us say that about $150m has been invested in this housing. There are about 10,000 units and 10,000 into $150m is about $ 1 ,500. So one might say that in Canberra, somewhere between $25 and $35 a week a year rent will give a reasonable return on the capital investment, the repayments and all the rest of it. This year, because of the system we have inflicted upon people, we will collect about $20m in rent, I should think. There is probably a total return, a total profit from Canberra housing, of about $10m. That will be concealed, of course, because notional rates of interest are charged. It will be said that this money was appropriated by the Treasury- these are words that have been used to me- to the Department at 6 per cent interest. Of course it was not. It was appropriated by the Parliament out of revenue for the housing system. I do not see any future in private investment in rental housing, except in certain luxury areas. It would seem to me that we have reached a stage where it is unproductive, relative to other areas of investment. What we should set out to do is to build as many housing units as we consider are needed and in such places as we think are appropriate. We should let them at a rent which would give us what I would call an amenity rent, which gives a reasonable- if I could use that word again- 'profit', rather than talk about interest rates, dividends and anything else. 
I hope that honourable members will think deeply about this question. It was my responsibility for two years in this city, which is probably more richly endowed as far as the incomes of the people are concerned than most other cities. I believe that we have not applied ourselves intelligently to this question. I return to the way in which I started: What is a reasonable rent on a house in the Causeway that is still being let? Under the system here, it has still to be let at so much amortisation, so much interest and so much this and that. Yet we have recovered about four times its capital cost in rental payments. We have paid perhaps less than one-third of that amount on maintenance on it. We have an asset which might have been worth, say, $1,400 50-odd years ago but which is worth $10,000 now. The land on which it sits is probably worth about $10,000 today. Yet we still look for these magic formulae. I do not give any credence whatsoever to the ideas of market rates or economic rents; nor do I attach any faith whatsoever to the magic of the bond rate. The honourable member for Kingston would probably agree with me in this regard. The bond rates, as are all such interest rates and other things, are manmanaged techniques. 
-They do not have to reflect the rate of inflation. They have not always reflected inflation. They did not in 1951 or 1952, and in the 1930s they did not reflect deflation either. So in the last few years they have suddenly had some magical attachment to the inflation rate. Well, that will not work either. We have tried it and it did not work. The Government is keeping on with this formula and it will not work. Let us bring some common sense, some ordinary commercial nous to the business of supplying houses for people and forget such terms- I hope I am not offending anybody when I say this- as welfare housing and things like that. We are not dealing with the deserving poor; we are dealing with ordinary Australians who are entitled to a decent home, with proper security and an opportunity to purchase it when they so desire. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Uren's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I want to point out that as far as I am concerned the behaviour tonight of those on the other side of the House is a declaration of war. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I think the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  must have a very large magnifying glass if he thinks that the statements to this House have been an adequate discussion or expose of what the Government is about.  His  own speech concentrated unduly on what is admittedly a very important area, the uranium and nuclear arms debate. The honourable member is one of the members in the Parliament who makes a very effective contribution when he speaks directly. I wish that he had not read his speech. What has the Government been saying? What is it doing? We on this side of the House say that a totally inadequate discussion has been arranged in the Parliament. This is the third time that we have put this matter of public importance on the Notice Paper. The honourable member suggested that it was through our own behaviour that we lost some of the previous cases. 
-That is not true. Honourable members will remember that Leichhardt himself got lost in the bush. It sounds as though the honourable member for Leichhardt is lost in this debate. On the first occasion when we tried to raise this matter of public importance the Government moved a motion of censure against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and took up the time that the matter of public importance would have taken. It then closed discussion on it. The second time the Opposition tried to raise this matter of public importance something else happened. This is the third time. Four people are debating the issue. I am glad that the two honourable members on the other side, the one listed for debate and the one who has spoken, are people with their hearts in the matter. The four people who are speaking in this debate, of course, have all had some relationship to wartime activities. We know what war is about. We are trying to stop it. 
I think that disarmament is the key issue for humanity. I know that poverty presents a great challenge to the capacity of the world to reorganise its resources. Hunger is a great damage to humanity. It causes great misery. There are some problems in relation to trade. There are many other problems. But the real threat to humanity comes from what has now become the arms race. We want to know what the Government is doing about it? What will it do? How will it do it? How effective will it be? I say emphatically that to this stage there has not been adequate discussion in this House. I am not criticising the two honourable members on the Government side who are taking part in this debate. Perhaps this is not even a real criticism of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  It is the way we run the affairs of this Parliament. 
-That is right. I want to see longer discussions. We should have parliamentary representatives at the United Nations discussions over the next few weeks. At least one senator from this side of the Parliament has gone to the United Nations. We have started to bring this matter into the open and get people on side. If honourable members want to know where I stand and what I feel about it they should read my remarks in this House in the debate on the Supply Bills on 24 May. I raised the subject as a matter of desperation because I thought that we would never debate this matter of public importance. 
We would have to have our eyes closed not to realise what we are up against. First of all, there is the sheer pessimism of the issue. People will say: 'But it is human nature to go to war'. I do not think that it is human nature to go to war. I am fortified in that resolution by the happenings of the last few years. As I have pointed out in this House many times before, I am a 1914 model. I was born at the beginning of the First World War. I grew to maturity and manhood to spend most of seven years involved in the last one. My involvement was not very vigorous but I fired my share of shots and dodged a few myself. Seven years of my life were taken up in actually being in and out of uniform and in the business of being associated with war. I do not think that will happen to my children and grandchildren. I shall bend every effort I have to make sure that it does not. We are up against professional vested interests. 
For about 14 years between 1960 and 1974 or thereabouts the number of people in regular forces in the world increased from about 18 million to 22 million. Expenditure on defence in the underdeveloped countries increased from about $15 billion to $40 billion. Yet all the evidence and all the beliefs in this Parliament are that there are fewer threats of war than there used to be. This would be the case in our own region. In 1939 when there were real threats of war about, when people believed that Japan would be on the march in the not too distant future and when, in fact, Germany and Italy were opening the gates of war, about 8,000 or 9,000 people were in the Services in Australia. Now there are 70,000 people in the Services. I think that this is a great political and psychological challenge to us. Apart from that, there are commercial vested interests. We recognise the great psychological and political difficulties we face in attempting to reduce the number of people in the Services. We have to do everything in our power to reduce the expenditure on arms, the impact of our arms expenditure in this region and use whatever influence we have with our neighbours to prevent them embarking on an arms race. 
I ask honourable members opposite what our next Budget will bring. It is likely to bring a reduction in expenditure on health services. I am sure that it will bring a reduction in expenditure on education. What will it do about the build up of arms? We on this side of the House recognise the political, social and psychological difficulties. We have to make sure that we have an impact in the world which is perhaps beyond our size and weight in numbers. As I have remarked on many occasions in the Parliament the influence on humanity through history has not always been that of the big battalions. We are in many respects the inheritors of the Greek tradition and culture, from the tiny city of Athens of 2,000 years ago, and of the British traditions and developments, in politics and so on, of the last few hundred years- the traditions of that tiny off-shore island of Europe. We have the chance to be influential in the same way. What can we do? First, there is the attitude to Russia. As I mentioned earlier, people, in debating this, will say, 'But you cannot do anything about humanity.' You can. But five short years ago, this Parliament did not recognise the existence of China. Suddenly the gates to China have been opened. We all want to visit that country. The Chinese people come here, and they are welcome. The Chief of Staff in Britain says that the Chinese are his friends, that the people who were on his side in the two World 
Wars are his enemies. Somehow we have to diminish the resentment that appears to exist against the Russians. 
We should encourage new approaches in the Indian Ocean. The United Nations First Committee has passed many resolutions. In 1976 it requested that the littoral and hinterland States of the Indian Ocean continue their consultations with a view to formulating a program of action leading to the convening of a conference on the Indian Ocean. Have we done anything about that? It is time that we did. As far as the Indian Ocean is concerned, the American bases in Australia, especially that at the North-West Cape, are a threat to our continued peace and to the security of the region. That is an inheritance of the past that will be difficult to shed, but I would guess that all honourable members on this side of the chamber, and most on the other, would be with the Minister, if he got round to making some efforts in that regard. 
We have also to undertake an attack on the arms trade. It is perhaps Utopian to expect it, but we ought not to sell arms to people. We ought not to buy them either, and should take a strong line against those countries which sell them. The four principal arms suppliers of the world are the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of America, Britain and France. We ought somehow to use all our influence to get those countries out of that business. It will take a great deal of political maturity, but there are all sorts of precedents in history of hopeful arrangements which can reduce tension. I refer to the arrangements between Canada and the United States of America at the beginning of the last century, between Norway and Sweden early in this one, and between Turkey and Greece after World War I- in which demilitarised zones were established and people were able to live peacefully on either side. The collapse of the barriers of Europe as a result of the development of the European Economic Community, threatening as it is to our trade, is a hopeful sign for humanity. We have to take into the debate the principles of hope, optimism and dynamism. Australia has the capacity to mobilise nations, both bigger and smaller than herself, and turn them loose in the forums of the world to try to bring the arms-trading nations to heel. We ought not to let the arms traders of the world, and their Governments, keep them under this continual threat. 
-Last week my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  came under rather heavy and inaccurate fire from the honourable member for St 
George  (Mr Neil)  when he referred to the execution in Papua New Guinea of Papua New Guinean natives. Because the honourable member for Lalor has come under fire for raising the matter, I thought it would be useful if I reminded the House of the actual atmosphere of the time, of the dreadful atrocities of which the Japanese had been guilty and of the crimes that in fact were committed by the people of Papua New Guinea, many of whom were arrested and tried. 
The issue which the honourable member has raised has two points. The first relates to whether anybody was authorised to carry out such executions and the second concerns what happened to the records. We should ensure that such events never occur again. Australia had had no experience as an occupying power. I think the honourable member for Lalor has brought forward this matter as a public duty. We should remember that these events occur no matter how well organised we are.  Sir Edmund  Herring of course has an extraordinarily high reputation in Australia as a jurist and a soldier. I regard him as a conservative jurist. I would consider that when he confirmed these executions he did it, as he thought, in his sense of duty. I believe a grievous error was committed by the armed forces at the time- this is not a reflection on the Army as such- inasmuch as it failed to observe the requirements of the Australian system that such punishment should not be carried out by administrative decree. It should have been, of course, confirmed by the Governor-General. Nobody of course is sure under what authority the armed forces were operating at the time. If it were the Defence Act and the procedures or a court martial were used, the people involved failed to carry out the correct procedures. Section 98 of the Defence Act provides: 
No member of the Defence Force shall be sentenced to death by any court-martial except for mutiny, desertion to the enemy, or traitorously delivering up to the enemy any garrison- 
The section goes on to list other factors and then states:   . . and no sentence of death passed by any courtmartial shall be carried into effect until confirmed by the Governor-General. 
My reading of that Act is that it is probable that at that stage the people involved presumed that the people of Papua New Guinea were subject to the Defence Act and subject to military authority. I am not quite certain of the actual proceedings of the time. This section supports what has been said by my colleague the honourable member for Lalor. The section I have read was brought in in 1939, so it was valid in the 1940s. Section 99, which was an amendment to the Act in 1934, provides: 
The proceedings of a court-martial shall after promulgation be forwarded to the Minister for transmission to the Attorney-General for record. 
I raise this matter because my colleague the honourable member for Lalor has come under heavy fire in this matter. I do not mind the honourable member for St George raising the matter. I think that he ought to remember that there are two sorts of facts; there are facts and there are  Australian  reports. The honourable member should be careful when he uses newspaper reports, particularly against one of our own colleagues. I say to those on the other side of the House who have been attacking my friend, the honourable member for Lalor, that these days people have forgotten what the atmosphere was at that time. The war in Papua New Guinea, as in the other islands, was carried out with a ferocity that would not be found on most of the battle fields during the Second World War. No quarter was given and none was asked. These days it is very difficult for us to remember what the atmosphere was. 
I wish to raise one other matter tonight. Last night in this Parliament the honourable memberfor Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  gagged me twice in a discussion during the Committee stage of the Housing Assistance Bill. I think once might have been fair enough, lt seemed to me that the second time it was carried out just as an act of spite. When I rose during the adjournment debate to raise the matter I was gagged by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  who thought I was a shareholder at one of his company meetings. When we called for a division we were ignored by the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  who was in the Chair at the time as the  Deputy Speaker.  That is no way in which to behave in this place. There was a clear call for a division from this side of the House but the honourable member for Wide Bay chose to ignore it. So there are three issues: The way in which the honourable member for Bendigo usurped the authority of this House; the way in which the Leader of the House treated us; the way in which the honourable member for Wide Bay carried out his duties. This is no way in which to behave in a parliament of free people where minorities have rights like anybody else. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like to debate the statement by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  but, of course, there is no provision to do so. I wish to make an apology to you. Last night during the adjournment debate I mentioned the fact that the previous night there were calls for a division which were ignored by the Chair. I guessed at the time the calls were not heard. I took a dim view of that. I laid the responsibility for that decision upon you. As I now know, you were not in the Chair. Therefore I withdraw and apologise to you for my remarks last night. I ask in view of my act of grace on this matter that you raise with  Mr Speaker  the question of adequate debate of the very important issues raised by the honourable member for Bradfield. As the report he presented is a report to the Parliament rather than to the Government the Parliament itself through the  Speaker  and yourself should make provision for debate on it whether the Government likes it or not. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have my dissent recorded? 
-My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. One sympathises, of course, with his views on civil rights in the Soviet Union and such places but Indonesia, which is much closer to home - 
It is the objective of members of the Opposition with the amendments that have been placed before the Parliament to strengthen the original Act so that we are able to deal more satisfactorily with what we consider to be the likely actions of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I think the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has nearly as unhappy a record in these matters as the Queensland Government. There are some matters to which we think the House should pay attention. We should do something about the legislation before the Parliament and, as my friend the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  pointed out, the secrecy provisions. We should strengthen the need for consultation. We ought not to allow the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to have any authority whatsoever in this area. It is a national matter; it is for the national Parliament and the national Government to enforce and to see that it is re-enforced by legislation. 
I speak this evening particularly to take on what I call the 'pretentious nonsense' of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in his references to the principles upon which this Government is operating. The issue of land rights goes to the very heart of the Aboriginal situation. The beginning and almost the end of the principal aspirations of Aboriginals are to have a place of their own on this continent. The issue has been fought tooth and nail. It has been opposed as bitterly as one can oppose a matter in this Parliament from its very conception by the people opposite, by members of the National Country Party in particular and by their side runners or fellow travellers- call them what we will- in the Liberal Party of Australia. 
I have been involved in this issue for almost the whole of the 20-odd years that I have been in this House. I recall that when we launched a campaign back in 1963 concerning the people of Yirrkala in the Northern Territory, every possible effort was made even to keep me off the select committee which was appointed. It was suggested that I ought not to be on it because I had a personal interest in the matter; I had taken action involving a court case in Darwin. Ever since, we have had to drag land rights into this House and the other place against the wishes of honourable members opposite to keep the issue alive. It is instructive to read the debates at the time when this legislation was first introduced. If I remember rightly, my friend, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  was the initiator of the current legislation which lapsed when the Government changed in 1 975. Without recounting too much history, I was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in 1 973 when the Aboriginal Land Commissioner was appointed and the Interim Northern Land Council was established. The whole principle was brought into legislative being at that stage. 
Judging from the performance of my colleagues opposite over the Aurukun situation I am afraid- in fact I am certain- that there is no security in this legislation. If we take the analogy of Aurukun and transfer it to the Northern Territory situation what guarantee do we have that the Aboriginals will have permanent rights and security of tenure of their land? Is it not true that the Queensland legislation still is the paramount force in these matters in Queensland, that we have not passed legislation which strengthens the Minister's hand or gives him absolute authority to stop the Queensland Government taking away any of that land and that if it chooses to do something in relation to mining, forestry or anything else, he has no power at this stage to stop it? It is my firm conviction that there is only one security against governments and legislative assemblies in the Northern Territory, Queensland or anywhere else that we can give to the Aboriginal people as to their lands. It is by this Government, by legislation, taking over that land, securing it, paying for it if it must- I have pointed out in this House before that a very interesting debate could take place in the High Court and various other places as to what the Government ought to pay for it- and then proceeding to deed it to the Aboriginal people in perpetuity. I can see no security, no absolute tenure for the Aboriginal people, unless we do that. 
This evening we are attempting again to strengthen the legislation and bring it back to something of the concept which was initiated in this House five years ago by another government. I am gratified that the  Minister is  a convert. He has reached a stage now where, when he is flying home to the west in the splendid isolation of the front seat of one of the Boeings, he could almost regard himself as having thought of it all himself and, against the opposition of the rest of us, against even the opposition that once used to come from the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  having brought it into being. That is not true. I am grateful for his support, gentle and backsliding as it is. As I have pointed out, he is abdicating his duties. But I hope that if I keep at it even the honourable members opposite will understand. I do not have much faith - 
The honourable member says that he understands. That is true enough. Hitler understood about gas ovens but that did not make the use of them right. 
I will withdraw it. I am using it as an analogy with no relationship whatsoever to practical application. I am sorry that metaphors, analogies and so on have no place in the understanding of honourable members opposite. I am rather touched by the Minister's assurance that he has secured all these things and that he has done it on his own account. He rather reminds me of the imperial rescript of the Emperor of 
Japan at the end of the war that he had chosen to bring the war to a conclusion when, of course, everybody on our side, the Allies, thought that we had done so. The Minister can only be thanked, I suppose, for not slipping further back in history. I think he has abdicated his duty. I think that in these matters he has failed to do for the Aboriginal people those things which he ought to have done and those things which I think he knows in his heart he ought to have done. I hope that the Government will take the step now of removing any power of discretion from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The Minister must be reminded, in case he has forgotten, that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is of the same political persuasion as the Premier of Queensland. There are not many people in Australia, even among honourable members opposite in the Liberal Party, who would place any faith in the Premier of Queensland when it came to the preservation of human rights or anything else. 
-The Aboriginal people of Australia are those who choose to call themselves Aboriginal people and who are accepted by the Aboriginal communities as such. The honourable member for North Sydney can use his own definitions if he wishes. The fact is that it is pretty clear throughout the community and to Australians generally that unless we strengthen this land rights legislation almost everything we do for the Aboriginal people will be brought into disarray. I ask the Minister to give serious consideration to strengthening the original Act in the way we have suggested in the amendments we have placed before him. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 -Mr Deputy 


 Chairman- Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Dr Everingham's)  be agreed to. Question resolved in the negative. Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

-You are definitely showing a great deal of perception tonight,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in expecting that kind of enlightenment. Might I start with just a brief commentary upon my friend the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  who has often expressed sentiments outside the House about freedom, et cetera, which I applaud. But what is he talking about? The Government of which he is a member, which he supports, supressed transmission by radio in Darwin. It would not even let people listen to it. You and I,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  other people may have forgottenmay well remember the 'Aboriginal Embassy' situated on the lawns outside this House. The Government of which this Government is an heir used all the forces of law to shift it with a great deal of roughness tending towards police brutality, with the production in the middle of the night of an ordinance of this Territory to deal with it. So I do not take much heed of what is said by members opposite about such matters. 
I support the basic principle of freedom of speech. I think that a person is entitled in this country and in this House to say about any government what he thinks fit, just as he would say it about our own Government. I just want to defend the record for my friend Lionel Murphy, now a justice of the High Court of Australia. Most people in Australia ought to express their gratitude for what he did for the preservation of such matters as freedom of speech, the protection of family rights and so on. I think perhaps they are part of the issue that is before the House. I just remind the Parliament and those people who are listening that this Government has a pretty poor record in matters such as freedom of speech, the Communist Party Dissolution Bill, the putting up of signs such as those put up by the 'Aboriginal Embassy' and the attitude to the people of Timor. 
I am not all that happy with this legislation; not that I do not sympathise with the objective. It seems to me that it may well be part of the Government's panic responses to these matters. I suggest that honourable members take the legislation, examine it thoroughly and see where it fits in line with what we might call the objectives; that is, our commitment through treaties, et cetera about diplomats and protocol, what we should do, what we should say and what sort of prescriptions we should apply to the behaviour of people in this country. As I take it, that is the issue before the House.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you made a point about the Rhodesia Information Centre being irrelevant to the issue when it was raised by my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and discussed by the honourable member for Denison, both of whom, as I understand, are graduates of law schools in this country. Where they can see some conflict, I think you and I,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  might find that eventually there will be a great deal of conflict about this legislation. 
I have a very reserved view of governments' attitudes to freedom of rights and so on wherever some citizen gets in the road and there is a handy piece of legislation which may well be misused to suppress him. Just looking at the legislation, I have reservations; not about the objective because if we have an international commitment to say that groups cannot call themselves an 'embassy', 'consulate' or so on, then we ought to do it. I would be surprised if there is not an ordinance of this Territory with some clause in it somewhere that ages ago could have made people take down their signs on the so-called 'Croatian Embassy'. I am pretty certain that the building ordinance could have been used. I think that we have to start to look to determine whether we need to produce this kind of legislation. Would it not have been just a simple matter to say: 'It shall be illegal to use the word "embassy" or the word "consulate" in certain contexts'? 
I examined this legislation and I can see it doing all sorts of things to all sorts of people. The honourable member for Denison mentioned some possibilities. We have to remember that we are just incidents in this parliamentary system. This legislation may well stay on the books for a long while and the words may mean a different thing. Therefore let us take a look at what is contained in the legislation. What do we mean by 'improper use'? When is it improper to march with an Australian flag, an American flag, a Yugoslav flag or any other flag? We have seen this happen in- many demonstrations over the last few years. We have seen the way in which police interrupt demonstrations. We have the evidence of demonstrations in Queensland before us where, at the drop of a hat, legislation is used to suppress what any of us would regard as reasonable free assembly, freedom of speech, freedom to demonstrate and all the rest of it. So I am unhappy about the legislation in that regard. I hope that we will apply ourselves to it. I think it is using a sledgehammer to crack a nut. 
I am one of those people who would not care if  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  despairing of this Government I do not blame him for that but he is despairing because of different presumptions to those which I hold- went off overseas and bought a piece of real estate and put up a sign: 'The Embassy of Free Queensland' or something. This country has a notable record in this regard despite some blemishes, as I think was the case in repect of the Aboriginal Embassy. The fact that people could sit out in front of our Parliament, put up signs and tents and be left there was, I think, a sign of free people. The fact that someone can call himself Prince Leonard of Hutt River Province in Western Australia, can go through all sorts of antics and even make money out of it and nobody cares, is a sign of a free country. Perhaps we should be concentrating more on encouraging other people in the world to treat these matters of freedom as the essential rather than as forms of nationalism which are characterised by flags and symbols and the like. 
I hope that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will draw attention to these matters when the Bill is discussed in the Committee stage if it is not rushed through this place. I hope he will draw attention to paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause 4(2) which I hope will be examined thoroughly with a view to preventing those things which are not the aims of this legislation. Paragraph (a) states: 
conduct by way of displaying, or causing or permitting to be displayed, either within on or outside premises . . . any sign, flag or insignia that states, implies or is reasonably capable of being taken to imply that there is located at the premises an office of a mission, or the residence of a member of a mission, that represents, in a diplomatic or consular capacity, that country . . . 
As I say I have grave reservations not so much about the aim of the Bill but about its scope. Some honourable members have been around for a fair while. Some people in this place have taken part in wars to protect liberties and so on. In my time here I have found many errors in legislation of the kind we are now discussing. It has had to be amended later or it could be misused by authority. Therefore I would rather that we withdraw the legislation altogether and start again. Is it not possible that people could register in some way the establishment of a consulate or embassy in this country? This sort of thing is done under legislation relating to companies and trade marks. The names of businesses are also registered. We could pass a simple piece of legislation which could set out how consulates or embassies could be registered. That legislation could reserve an absolute right for that name and title for the institution. I think that that would be adequate. 
I believe the legislation before us has dangerous potential. I am for free speech, free association and free demonstration. I am for the putting up of any flag that one likes. What would be the situation if I marched down a street in London showing the Eureka flag? Would I be offending against equivalent legislation somewhere else? What would be the situation if people marching in a St Patrick's Day procession happened to carry, as they might, Irish Republican Army flags and things like that? We live in a world in which there are great divisions. There are conflicts about which is the Government and which is not the Government. In the recent past there have been two Vietnams, two Koreas and two Germanys. We may well be stepping into an arena in which there will be constant conflict. Instead of the Attorney-General taking action in such cases I would prefer that the people responsible take the action. 
Having been responsible for the administration of this piece of happy real estate known as Canberra I believe that in the golden age when things were done properly here we probably would have thought up an ordinance or a piece of legislation which was much simpler, more direct and more protective than the legislation before us. I think that we may well with the complications of the language and all the factors that go with it be sewing up trouble for ourselves. 
I appeal to our Croatian friends that they at least while they want to further their cause by free speech and association and demonstration in this country eschew all violence. I would advise them- I take it that my friend the honourable member for Denison and certainly my colleague the honourable member for KingsfordSmith would say the same to them- that when they start to indulge in violence they lose all Australian sympathy. It is quite inappropriate to import to this country the divisions of Europe. We should live side by side in the streets comfortably and happily together keeping matters of contention for debate and persuasion. I am rather disappointed with the form of the legislation. I think it is basically too complicated, too legalistic and does not say precisely what it aims to do. I am not sure that we are sewing up troubles for ourselves and perhaps trampling on people's liberty. 
I support my colleague the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in his reference to the Rhodesia Information Centre. Clause 4 (2) (b) of the Bill states:  . . . conduct by way of making or publishing, or causing or permitting to be made or published, any representation that states, implies or is reasonably capable of being taken to imply that there is located in Australia a mission . . . 
I think that the reality of the situation is that the Rhodesia Information Centre can be taken to be a much more definite representation of the Government of Rhodesia than is the Croatian 'Embassy' a diplomatic representation of a part of Yugoslavia. That, I think, would be the interpretation that any reasonable Australian would place upon it. The debate in this House tonight expresses to me the unsatisfactory nature of this legislation. I am not legally trained as are my two colleagues who took part in this debate. But I have spent a long time looking at legislation which has been passed by this House and I have spent a fair amount of time attempting to use the English language with some precision. I do not think that this piece of legislation does what it ought to do with the necessary precision and does not make a proper reference to other people's rights as it ought to. At least if we are to take the action which the Bill purports to effect, let us be dinkum and apply it to other bodies such as the Rhodesia Information Centre which purport to be something that they are not or should not be in this country. 
I ask the Treasurer: In view of his statement that there is a clear link between wage rises and unemployment and between a high level of wages and unemployment, will he state the basis of empirical evidence to support that proposition? Will he state also in what instances low wage countries are able to maintain full employment? If the Treasurer is unable to answer the question during Question Time, will he have a paper prepared on this matter to show clear empirical evidence to support his statement? 

 -Mr Speaker, may I express a point through you to the right honourable Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  concerning the times of meeting? As I understand, in the next session we will resume on a three-day week basis. From our experience in this Parliament it would be worthwhile giving some serious consideration to a full debate here at some stage after the resumption of business so that all members can contribute to it in order to determine whether there is a more rational way in which we could use the time of the Parliament and the time of members. On my calculations it is 178 days since the last election. Today is the thirty-ninth day of meeting; so we are meeting for about a quarter of the time available. I take it that most members of the Parliament, like myself, feel at this stage that we have been meeting every day since the election but we still have not done as much as we would have liked to have done. 
Therefore apart from the legislation committees, which I hope will be adopted by the House shortly, we ought to give more serious consideration directly to the form of meeting, the times of the day we meet, and the rest of it. I would think at the moment that we are probably meeting less than most other deliberative assemblies of a national sort, such as we are, and that is a serious reflection on the way we are running the place. I think it is also a part of the pattern of thinking in the community which is making the Parliament appear irrelevant to the people. I hope the right honourable gentleman will follow my advice on this matter and get the Parliament to sit down and deliberate on it. In case he finds it a bit too difficult to handle the matter himself, if he wishes I will draw up the schedule for him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-On one occasion at least I can be on the same side as, and give full support to the remarks of, my colleague from the Northern Territory - 
-That is right. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has his moments in which he needs correction and even fewer moments when he does not need correction; and this is one of them. I pay a tribute to some other people, one of whom was here when I came to the Parliament,  Mr Jock  Nelson, who was the member for the Northern Territory, as I understand his father was before him. 
-That is right.  Mr Jock  Nelson, for instance, put up a long campaign simply to get the right to vote in this House, which was part of our platform for a long while. I am a firm believer in representative government. I wish the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory well in its deliberations and I hope it will carry into those deliberations the principles upon which the parliamentary system is built. We want to remember that it was the parliamentary system, based primarily upon the English system, which created the answerability of Ministers to the representative assembly and which abolished slavery. An Act of the British Parliament did that; and it was one of the great dramatic humanitarian movements of history. The parliamentary system, because of its accessibility, its responsibility and so on, 1 think is the only hope for reasonable government in a troubled world. 1 hope the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory will develop along those lines. 
I speak here this afternoon, as I have no doubt honourable members will be surprised to know, as one who has probably had a longer association with the Northern Territory than almost anybody sitting in this House at the moment. 
I was up there in 1 944 with the Australian Army. I have been going backwards and forwards to the place ever since. Sometimes I have been welcome; sometimes I have not. 
I thought you went there after the war. 
Oh, good. I pay a compliment to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He has had long and distinguished service, sometimes in grievous error and sometimes, as I say, in due process of justice. This is an important occasion. However, I do hope that in setting this path for the Northern Territory we are not creating more troubles inside the Australian constitutional situation. We are a much less effective federation than, say, Canada or even, I think, the United States of America because great areas of conflict have developed between ourselves and the so-called sovereign States. I hope that the honourable member for the Northern Territory will bring some 'soothing syrup' to relieve the troubles that are bound to develop between the people of the Northern Territory and the people in Canberra who happen to be responsible for the Government of this country. 
So, to reiterate what I had to say, there are people whose names cannot be remembered now but who have carried the Northern Territory forward over all these years. I pay a special tribute to my former colleague,  Mr Jock  Nelson, who was the member of this House for the Northern Territory for so many years and was an ardent advocate of equality, politically speaking, of the Northern Territory in this place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I second the amendment. We will not set the House alight on this issue because we recognise that it would probably be very difficult for the House to make a decision on the matter tonight, but it is important that we place it before the Parliament. Firstly, I think it is important and it is urgent that the House adopt the procedures laid out. Whilst, as my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said, the Opposition disagrees on the suspension of the House during the sittings of the legislation committees, we agree that it is more important on this occasion that we get started on this operation. The objectives, as I see them, are to bring a closer scrutiny to legislation, which can be done around the table by smaller committees proceeding in a manner distinct from the ordinary procedures of the House. We are all accustomed to such deliberations and practices and that scrutiny is very important. But I believe that the operations of this Parliament now have to get round to a consideration of the economy of time. It would seem to me that we are not saving any time, and I regard that as the most important matter as far as the Parliament is concerned at the moment, by suspending the sittings of the House while we go into legislation committees. If we go into two legislation committees perhaps we will save a little time, but I can think of no real reason why, at the time the legislation committees are deliberating, the House should not be able to proceed with discussion of the policy reports which come before us from time to time. 
One of the great disadvantages of the development of our work over the last seven or eight years has been the inability, often through time and sometimes through government attitudes, to discuss policy questions. There are none of the continuous effective debates that we had a few years back on such matters as foreign policy, education and other great matters of moment. It is important that we adopt the procedure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has outlined. I think, too, that it will create an expansion of opportunities. I say to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that the House is not in any situation tonight to have a proper debate on the matter in the way in which we sometimes do with regard to the Standing Orders. So I hope that we will ensure that the trial nature of this proposal is tested effectively after we have been going for perhaps five or six weeks in the next session and that the matter then will be brought up for deliberation by the whole House when everybody is available to discuss it. 
Before I sit down I would like to add to the list of honourable members whom the Leader of the House thanked for the work they had done. Those on this side of the House have been a part of it. As I recall, it was about four or five years ago that the committee of inquiry into the parliamentary committee system was established. As I recall the position, at that stage  Mr Scholes,  the honourable member for Corio, was the first  chairman  of the Committee and  Dr Jenkins,  the honourable member for Scullin, was the subsequent  chairman.  The other members of Parliament who served on the Committee are listed in the report. I would like to pay a tribute to those honourable members who worked hard and long on this Committee and with due patience for the necessity to change the parliamentary system. 
This is one occasion on which honourable members on this side of the House are on side with the Government with respect to the general principles we are after. 
I think that on the law of averages even the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party can say that he must be right one out of 10 or 15 times. I think that this is it. Our parliamentary system is under challenge. Representative government is under challenge. Countervailing forces in the community, both in Australia and abroad, are in continuous .array against us. Anything that we can do to make the system more effective or to make honourable members feel that they are being more effective and to make the members of the community believe that the Parliament is the effective government of the country will be to the advantage of our democracy. In this instance, I am certain that the objectives we were pursuing originally will be better assisted by the House not suspending itself when we go into committee. I recognise that the rule the Leader of the House has placed before the House gives some sort of opportunity for the House to continue by special resolution of the House while the committee is in process. My experience would be that that would be pretty difficult. Operating from this side of the House as I do, I have not very often had the full support of honourable members opposite, no matter how much righteousness has been on my side. But you never know; this may be the beginning of a new spirit in which there is understanding that righteousness and infallibility do not always lie with the members that happen to win the majority of votes placed in the ballot box at an election. 
There is a good deal of talent on this side of the House to contribute. I hope that in the consideration of legislation Ministers will be more able to accept amendments which are put by any honourable member and that there is a" greater input by the average backbencher member of Parliament than has hitherto been possible. The Opposition would like to record its view in the appropriate way in the House without forcing the vote to a division or anything of that difficult and dangerous nature. We would like an assurance from the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party that early in the new session of Parliament we will have a thorough examination of the position to see if it is possible to take things a step further. 
-The Premier of Queensland must have been terrified when he received that telex. What has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said in the last 15 minutes? He has said nothing. What will he do? He will do nothing. He tells us about a catalogue of difficulties, arrangements, visits, consultations, legislation and so on involving the Queensland Government. Every time an agreement is reached, the Queensland Government changes it, puts Commonwealth officials off the land, bans them from the land, dissolves the councils and takes new actions. Yet the Minister and the Government still believe that they can get some sense and co-operation out of the Queensland Government and they will rely on legislation passed by the Queensland Parliament. Nobody with any sense of duty to the people of Australia in this matter would do that. Will the Minister never learn? He says that there have been more consultations and terms that are not acceptable, that the Commonwealth will not acquire the land but will make some arrangements about it. We have had so many positive statements from him when he does nothing, how can we rely upon anything when he has to make qualified undertakings? 
I suppose that the pure political issue is this: How long is the Country Party tail going to wag the Liberal Party poodle in respect of this matter? There is only one thing that can be done in respect of the land. It has to be acquired for the Aboriginal people and vested in them in perpetuity. One of the great-- 
-One of the more gratifying facts of the whole situation is that the people of Australia - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr MillarOrder! 
-One of the more gratifying facts of the whole situation is that the people of Australia are on the side of the people of Aurukun. The most gratifying features of the situation is the resolution of the people of Aurukun themselves who are standing up to both the Queensland Government and to the present inactive Commonwealth Government. I believe that there is only one action we can take- that is to acquire the land in accordance with our constitutional authority under the Commonwealth Lands Acquisition Act and to deed it to the people in perpetuity. 
We are speaking this afternoon about this Government's most miserable performance in any field of governmental activity. And that is saying something. Over the last two and a half years we have discussed land rights and the formation of Aboriginal councils. We told the Government earlier in the year when we discussed this matter that the Queensland Government could change the situation over night by a simple regulation which would change the status of the reserves. That is what the Queensland 
Government did. The matter has been discussed in the Senate and in the House of Representatives. We have had Press releases, visits, conferences and then even more of the same. I heard the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  barking from over there on my left somewhere about things about which he knows nothing. He might at least pay some heed to what has been going on. The initiatives taken on the whol.e question of the Queensland reserves have been going on for five and a half years. 
I have before me a newspaper article of 25 February 1973. At that time we had a Federal Minister who knew what he was about and who got on with the job. The headline above the article reads: 'State-Federal row looming over land'. The Labor Government put the proposition to the Government of Queensland that it transfer the reserves to the Aboriginal people. The Premier of Queensland did not answer. The present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is receiving the same treatment. But we put out feet along the road towards establishing substantial control over the land for the people of Aurukun and elsewhere in Queensland. Every white community has had a miserable record in this regard. It is 215 years since the proclamation in respect of the Indian lands in Canada stated what ought to be done. It was decided that the Indians ought to have their rights in the land preserved. This was implied in the instruction to Governor Phillip. It has been part of the running sore of Australian history. While governments and people might make whishtful sounds about this matter, nobody has been able to do anything effective about it. 
What is the situation? In 1967, the people of Australia said to the Commonwealth: 'It is your duty to ensure that the Aboriginal people of Australia get their fair place in the sun in this continent'. That would include land rights and all manner of things. The constitutional position is quite clear. That is fortified, of course, by the Commonwealth Lands Acquisition Act. How do we go about that? If this afternoon the Minister were to issue, through the appropriate Commonwealth authority, notice to acquire that land it would become a Commonwealth land from then and the Commonwealth writ would run. That is what ought to be done. There are no difficulties about it. We do it to citizens throughout the country. We do it to people here and there if we want to build a freeway, an aerodrome or anything of that sort. 
Why are we afraid of the Queensland Government? If there is any government in this country that is without any credibility outside its own rigged electoral boundary system it is the Government of Queensland. The Premier of Queensland can only do himself and his party political good by taking this action. Action ought to be taken by the Commonwealth. The process is clear, the constitutional position is clear, the need is imperative and it is urgent. The Minister might argue, as the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  who was previously the honourable member for Parramatta, argued in another debate, that this would cost an enormous amount of money. Of course it would not. There is no precedent for assuming that the Government would have to pay for the assumed bauxite reserves. The Commonwealth Lands Acquisition Act has something to say about it. When we acquired the Lanyon property in the Australian Capital Territory only three or four years ago the proposition was put to us by its owner that we should pay for the future usage of the land, which was urban land development. He wanted $35m. I think we offered him something like $2m. Eventually, after a High Court judgment, between $3m and $4m was paid for it. That was a reasonable sum in view of the rise in prices and everything else at that time. 
There are no difficulties in taking this course of action. There is only hesitancy on the part of the Government to do what ought to be done. The Queensland Government's powers will remain, no matter what sort of legislation is passed. It has the power through its Parliament to change legislation in a moment at the Premier's whim or anyone else 's whim. How can the Government introduce legislation which will overcome the Queensland mining Acts and the other Acts which empower various authorities such as the forestry and fisheries authorities to do what they wish with the land. We have had more failures than victories in this regard. The whole battle in this Parliament for land rights for the Aboriginal people has been accepted by both sides of the Parliament. It has been accepted by all the parties here. We would not have passed the Northern Territory land rights legislation if that were not so. We would not have established select and standing committees on land rights. We would not have appointed and supported the land councils in the Northern Territory if that was not what it was all about. I cannot understand- and the people of Australia to whom one speaks cannot understand- the hesitancy of the Government in this regard. I can only put it down to political cowardice- a failure to face up to the fact that the Government has a formidable political opponent in the Premier of Queensland. He must be shackled in this regard. 
There is no future for the Aboriginal people on those reserves unless we take this action. The Queensland Government 's record is miserable. I hope that the House will take heed of what we are discussing this afternoon. 
Aurukun occupies an area of about 1.7 million acres. I suppose that if one examined the documents in the Parliamentary Library and the advertisements for the sale of land at Cape York and so on one would find that $1.50 or thereabouts is being paid for an acre of land there. Aurukun is worth perhaps $3m as a piece of real estate. There are, of course, many improvements on it. The Queensland Government has placed improvements upon it in the form of schools and so on but, if I remember correctly, it has done so mostly with Commonwealth money. A good deal of the improvements were made with Commonwealth money. On the other hand, Mornington Island is much smaller. It is about 250 000 acres in size and is worth perhaps $400,000. If we are talking of money and if we have to buy off the Premier of Queensland, we are speaking of an amount of less than $3. 5m. 
How long is this dispute to continue? I have visited the area, as has the Minister, my colleague the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and other honourable members. The people there have developed a self-reliance and a resolution which fortifies my resolution in this regard. It is now over 20 years since this Parliament started to debate the issue. It is now 1 5 years since we took up the question of the position of the people of Yirrkala in the Northern Territory. The debate goes on and on. Occasionally, a resolution is reached which is to the advantage of the Aboriginal people but mostly from honourable members opposite, particularly from this Minister, we get the miserable pussy-footing performance that we saw this afternoon. There is no evidence that anything will be done. There is no point in sending telexes to the Premier of Queensland. There is no point in communicating further with him. When will honourable members opposite learn? Unless we act now we will be betraying the duty cast upon us by the people of Australia some 1 1 years ago- in 1967- and expected of us since. If it had not been for the interference of a previous Governor-General we would have achieved the desired result long ago. I am quite certain that if previous Ministers of the political persuasion of those who sit on the other side of the House- the former honourable member for Mackellar or the former honourable member for Higgins, when 
Prime Minister- had been faced with this proposition they would have dealt with the Premier of Queensland with some resolution. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In supporting the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  who is the representative of an electorate, as we all are, I want to draw attention to the fact that what he is doing, perhaps inadvertently, is reducing the differentials between members of this Parliament. By reducing the amount of money paid to Ministers he is keeping parliamentary salaries and other matters closer to one another, which I think is as it ought to be. One of the weaknesses of the report of the Remuneration Tribunal is the fact that there are increasing differentials between members of Parliament. Ministers are at the top of the list of people with resources at their disposal. They have much bigger salaries than everyone else and much greater resources to do their jobs. That is necessary. If one goes far enough down the list, say to the seat of Wills, one finds that at the bottom of the list are the people who represent some of the most populous electorates. I ask the House, when next it faces the Remuneration Tribunal, to consider this question of the differentials that are developing between us. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  pointed out this differential in regard to staff. I do not think that we can divorce just one determination from all the rest of them in this document. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  referred to just one also. 
Most honourable members would agree with me that, in respect of the duties imposed upon us, the member for Wills has the same responsibilities, duties and rights to carry into legislation the aspirations of his constituents as the Right honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  I have 124 000 people in my electorate and the honourable member for Corangamite has 99 000. He gets an extra electoral allowance because of the size of his electorate and gets other facilities as well. I am not now talking about those he gets as a Minister. Under this determination extra staff is to be given to members on this side of the House but only to some members. We should support the granting of extra staff to members. Ministers should be adequately staffed but, just as they have to compete with great resources and forces in the community, so do the rest of us. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, accepting your ruling that this is not to be a general debate, though I wish it were, I hope that honourable members will apply themselves to what might be called the new feudalism, starting at the top with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and going down to the serfs at the bottom, the people like the honourable member for Wills who happens to represent people and not tussocks, sandhills or iguanas. I make that comment to you in your capacity as the honourable member for Wide Bay. This is a most depressing feature of this document, good as it is in some other ways. I cannot understand how a body of people led by a distinguished and eminent judicial figure such as the man who chairs the Tribunal, and does so very well, a man who has applied himself well to the problem, could make the decision it did about postage. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented. You will remember that during the debate this afternoon on the Aurukun situation the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  interjected and I raised with you the matter of that interjection by the honourable member. You will remember that at the time I said to you that I would like the opportunity to explain the situation. I did not think that the exchange would be recorded in  Hansard  but I find that it has been. The honourable member for Murray referred to the turtle project in the Torres Strait, implying that it was my responsibility. I want to make it clear in this House for the 4,532nd time that that project was not initiated by the Labor Government; it was initiated by the previous Government. Some $400,000 had been committed to it and we put a lot of work into trying to sort it out. It still remains as one of the difficult problems of the time. The Torres Strait Island people, the turtles themselves and our Government were the inheritors of a rather serious mess perpetrated by our predecessors. 
I am not quite certain from what the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is suffering. It does not seem to be amnesia. It seems to be hallucination. Is he actually saying in the presence of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that the Commonwealth has millions of dollars to put into some useful project? Some 30-odd, very odd, people in the last  2Vi  years have gone into the Ministry. If any one of them is here, I would ask: What useful project has he put on the books as a result of his admission to the Ministry? What I want to take up is a question that is within the responsibility of the Minister for Health or non-health  (Mr Hunt).  How will the Government pay out the benefits that are to come from it as a result of the recent changes in Medibank? As I understand the proposition, as part of the general proposition of supporting private enterprise and getting away from public enterprise that seems to be the fetish of this Government, it will employ the private funds to do this. What is wrong with using the post offices? The post offices have been traditionally paying agents for the Commonwealth for all sorts of pensions and benefits. They used to be its agent for the payment of child endowment. They still are, in many parts of Australia, the agents of the Commonwealth Bank. I suggest that if the Government has commissions to pay and wants to use the most ubiquitous service available in Australia it should use the post offices. I hope that the Treasurer will take up that suggestion with our friend the Minister for Health who, because of the way in which the Government has tinkered with health generally, will need a lot of help in performing the job that he has on his hands. 
In my younger days my family conducted a non-official post office. We used to pay war pensions, invalid pensions, aged pensions, child endowment- the lot. It would gladden the heart of the Treasurer to know that in those days we were paid about 30s a week for handling for about 15 hours a day ten or 12 subscribers to the telephone, for supplying the building concerned, for handling the mail and so on. 
The other point about which I want to remind the House is the situation in the Torres Strait. This Parliament probably has in it some of the most notable travellers in the world. Many of the people I see around me tonight have been all over the world. They have been to Moscow, Peking, Paris, Montevideo and all the rest. Name it and they have been there- unless it is one of the more remote parts of Australia. I suggest that they begin to include Torres Strait on their agenda. 
The Torres Strait island people represent a separate ethnic group. They are not Papuans. They are not Australian Aboriginals. They occupy a piece of sea space about 80 or 90 miles from north to south and 130 or 140 miles from east to west. They live on little dots of land. For instance, York Island is about 400 acres, or a little less than a square mile. It has something like 400 or 500 inhabitants. It is a delightful piece of real estate, but the real estate of these people is the sea. The problem we face, and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  faces, is that it is very difficult for us landlubbers to realise that the sea is their 'land '. Unless we see that we will, in the arrangements that we make with Papua New Guinea, do them a great disservice. 
As I read the projected agreement, a fair amount of sea space will be surrendered to Papua New Guinea for commercial fishing. As I understand it, this would prevent the Torres Strait islanders from ever developing a viable commercial base. They are sea people and have over the years lived at a subsistence level based on the sea; but if they are ever to have anything at all going for them in a commercial sense all of the fisheries of the Torres Strait area must be preserved for them- not for the Australian fishing industry or the Papua New Guinea fishing industry but for them alone. I suggest that honourable members should go there and talk to the people. It is a totally different scene there. Honourable members should see and hear these people in their own environment. I suggest tonight that honourable members should apply themselves to this matter. I appeal in particular to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  whom I know is a compassionate gentleman at heart, to consider this matter in a totally different intellectual arena from that of negotiations with other nations. 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. During the tramways dispute in Victoria he made a strong plea for Miss Biggs, who had no union membership, to be permitted to work. Would the Minister permit a shearer without membership of the appropriate union to be part of a shearing team on his property? 
-Firstly, I want to make a few points about the way in which we conduct this Budget Debate. In doing so,  Mr Speaker,  I do not make any reflection upon your management of the House. We are not having a debate upon a Budget although it is a most significant political, social and economic document. Each honourable member has only 15 minutes in which to speak and all we can do is conduct what might be called a skirmish with a little sniping here and there. Honourable members can mention some of those issues that they feel ought to be dealt with and hope that at some stage the Parliament will design some machinery for getting around to dealing with them. Of course, the general view of the Budget is that it will have a disastrous impact upon the Australian community. Large numbers of people who look to this Government and the Budget for assistance and for raising their lot above the poverty line will do so in vain. 
I would like to start my speech by mentioning some matters that my colleagues opposite spoke about during the afternoon. For instance, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  suggested that we should look at the restructuring of the Budget system and that we should have a Budget presented every two years instead of each year. I believe that there is something in that suggestion. The general structure of the Budget is inadequate for adequate discussion of the situation. I believe that we should change the whole structure- the way in which we draw up the Estimates, the structure of the actual Budget itself and the way it is set out in these documents. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  said that he could not understand it, that they might as well produce the next one in Mandarin. I defy any honourable member in this House to find out exactly how much of that $2 8,000m which is dealt with in this document is to be expended, for instance, on capital works- what we might call the continuing assets of our society. There are questions, such as the financing of public works and utilities, that have not been answered in any way. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  had a few things to say also about the way in which the Budget was structured. He said that full employment without inflation is not acceptable. I believe that inflation is not the principal evil. I think that unemployment is the principal evil. I do not believe that it is necessary to have inflation in order to have full employment. During most of the 1950s and a good deal of the 1 960s there was full employment without a great deal of inflation. Back in the 1930s there was very high unemployment and very little inflation. There seems to me to be no rationale for the way in which we approach most of these problems. The honourable member also said, in talking about the deficit, which I think is a false word to use in relation to the actual funding that goes through this Budget system, that we ought to start to turn to such things as special bonds. In other words, we must find some way of tapping the immense savings in the Austraiian community. 
There are all manners of techniques for doing this. At the moment in Canberra, the Canberra Commercial Development Authority is under attack. It has developed a very large shopping complex out in Belconnen which is called the Belconnen Mall. I suggest to honourable members that they should see how this was financed. In fact, the Government put in $ lm as equity capital to start with and the rest of the money was raised by loans from the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. It is a publicly owned enterprise and hardly any call upon the Budget has been made. The honourable member for Lilley also said that the Australian people would not find a higher level of taxation acceptable. I am not sure about that. We live in a mature, common sense, self-reliant society in which people will front up and pay up when they see that the things that the money is being spent on are things which deserve expenditure. I come from Victoria where there is an archaic system in the local government field for paying for the construction of private streets. The land owners whose land abuts the street pay all the cost of the construction of the street. It can involve expenditure of anything up to $50 a foot. I remember that at one previous home in which we lived we paid, I think, $3,600 within a few-- 
Yes, that was Nell Street, Greensborough. The citizens there, within a few hundred yards of our household, put in nearly half a million dollars- in effect it was taxationbecause they could see it going into some constructive work. The Liberal Party of Australia, of course, has avoided all the discussion about the weaknesses in our economy. What are some of them? First of all, I believe that there is a totally unenterprising approach to rural trade. There is no possibility of selling most of our rural products, whether they be beef or butter, in large quantities to Europe. A protective system has developed in the United States of America and in Japan. Tonight, one million people in the world will go to bed hungry and perhaps cold. They will be deprived in all sorts of ways. If we can invent a new technique to supply them with the materials we produce- that should not be all that difficult in a world that has developed all sorts of commercial trading techniques- it would be to our advantage and certainly would help to ameliorate the plight of mankind. One of the most serious deficiencies of our economic system at the moment is the heavy deficit in invisibles. I refer to the overseas ownership of some of our most profitable industries, of which the Utah Development Corporation- the friend of honourable members opposite- is probably the principal example. Such overseas companies are milking the Australian community of the profits and wealth that belong rightly to Australia. We have an unrealistic approach to manufacturing industry. We have not determined the role that we think manufacturing industry should play in this country. It is a very important social exercise, apart from being of very great importance as an economic exercise. 
Yes, we have not done much in that area, either. There is a lack of appreciation of the Government's role in industry. One of the most disheartening facts in the whole economic debate is our failure to get down to what I might call fundamentals. We should ask ourselves these basic questions: How are we to distribute and develop Australia 's basic wealth, which per capita is probably about the highest in the world? What kind of society are we trying to develop? Economic indicators flow day by day in immense quantities from banks, from publications like  Syntec  and the  Australian Financial 

 Review and in the Press announcements issued by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  They are based upon a buying and selling society. Will they be the answers for the future? I do not think that they will be. What kind of society do we really want? First of all, we on this side of the House want equality where we can get it. We want equity across the board. We want security. 
Yes, and I think responsibility from each person in this community to all the rest of the community. We want security above all else. Over the last 30 years the people of Australia have become accustomed to job security. But over the last four or five years that has vanished. There is nothing so disheartening to the community and nothing so divisive to the community as what is happening to the young people of Australia and those people who work in some of the threatened manufacturing industries. We have not answered the question of how far we ought to go on the road to self-sufficiency and how much overseas investment we should tolerate. Our friends opposite talk about overseas investment as if it had some particular quality which was superior, say, to investment by Australians in industry. I do not think that that is right. I do not think that we can have a democratic society if major social decisions and major economic decisions are made by people who do not live in Australia and who do not answer to us in any way. This Budget does not face up to any of those questions. 
One of the things that dismays me is the intellectual sterility of the economic debate. If the right honourable Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is to grace this debate with his presence and participation tonight I hope that he will take a close look at some of the assertions upon which the Government is basing its actions. We live in a time of great social and economic change. This is a totally different political, economic and social climate from what existed even 10 years ago. Certainly, over the last 300 years there has been a total change in the way that society works and the way that society develops. Let me take one of the continuing assertions. I hope that tonight the right honourable Prime Minister will not make this sort of statement which has to do with wages. The right honourable gentleman, his right honourable colleagues, his honourable colleagues and those serfs on the back benches who do not have any of those titles, continue to assert that high wages in Australia are part of the threat to the continuance of our economic security. 
They talk with some assumption of reduced wages increasing the economic health of the community. What are the facts based on observations of the position in other countries? Japan is a high wage country. I have here a document prepared by my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  as a result of his recent visit to Japan. He has issued figures regarding the Matshushita electrical industry company which pays an average monthly wage of $US750 plus a $US375 monthly bonus-a total of $US1,125 or over $A1,000 a month. That is an average income of over $A250 a week. As I have said, Japan is a high wage country. In some areas, its wages are higher than those of Australia. Yet, as I understand it, its unemployment level is lower than that of Australia and its inflation rate is lower than that of Australia. The assertion is that if we reduced wages we would have a lower inflation rate and we would have a lower unemployment rate. Let me turn to some examples which might appeal to honourable members opposite. Spain is a low wage country compared with Australia. Ireland is a low wage country compared with Australia. Greece is a low wage country compared with Australia. Turkey is a low wage country compared with Australia. They all have lower wages and higher unemployment. Honourable members opposite also say that low wages and high technology ought to produce high levels of employment, but it does not. What is the situation in Thailand, Taiwan and Korea? We are in a situation in which the historic mythology flows on regardless. No matter what is the situation in the economy we have the same answers. 
I wanted to feel rather contemporary with my colleagues opposite so I went back to the Budget speeches of 1932 and 1933. The solution the then government had was a reduction of the deficit involving substantial reductions in expenditure. The right honourable gentleman who produced this document talked about a reduction in wages and the need to keep wages down. In 1954-55 we were in a totally different economic situation, but we had the same solutions. In view of the distinguished presence in the House of the Prime Minister, I should have thought that honourable members opposite would have listened in silence to the private conservations that the Prime Minister is holding throughout the House. In 1954-55 we had a totally different economic climate from that of the 1 930s, but we got the same answers: Keep down inflation by keeping wages down and reduce public expenditure. In 1960-61 we were in a different economic climate again but we got the same answers: Reduce wages, reduce public expenditure and get the deficit under control. In 1978 we are back to something like the 1931 economic climate and we are again using the same answers. So, no matter what the problems are in this country, we are looking at them with the same historic mythology, and it will not work. 
I suggest that we take a close look at the assertions which honourable gentlemen opposite are making continually. Is the money supply a factor which creates inflation or does not create inflation? The right honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  talks about the money supply as if it were an objective force over which no human being could possibly exercise some control. 
I will explain to the honourable member afterwards. In fact it is the creation of subjective decisions of people in banks and the Treasury. We talk about wages being a major factor in the creation of Australian problems. But, as I have pointed out, it does not make much difference what is the wage structure of a country because other countries are facing the same problems. Government expenditure is now at the stage where it is regarded as an evil thing. One of the great disappointments to me is the inability of honourable members opposite and the economic commentators in this country to realise how important government expenditure and government utilities are to the industrial base of this country. By that I mean a great deal of the banking, a great deal of the insurance, most of the transport, the supply of all the ancillary services such as roads, wharves, et cetera and the great Australian communications system. Honourable members have seen exactly how rapidly the telecommunications system can bring this nation to a halt if it does not work effectively. I am hoping that in the next few days, as this debate continues, honourable members opposite will throw away the jargon and the cliches and start to turn their minds to examining the assertions- 

 -Mr Speaker, I hope that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser), who came into the chamber and interrupted the debate in a most unmannerly way, will at least take the care and the time to try to answer some of the questions I have placed before him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I would like to say at the outset that I do not think it is of any use trying to avoid our responsibilities by blaming high wages and inflation for everything. This country is wealthy enough to resolve the problems of the people in a situation of hardship if it has the will. Nor is it good enough simply to say that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has sincerity and understanding. I know he has, but that is not good enough. We want some positive policies and action and I do not see them embodied in this legislation. I do not see this legislation as making progress towards the solution in accordance with the increasing wealth of this country, of the problems of the people who are aged, helpless or homeless. Whilst I support what might be called the sentimental approach of our friend the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  I do not think it is good enough to stand up and espouse the cause of the need for action unless we are prepared to look at the whole situation. I think the care of the aged, the homeless, and the helpless and the way we go about it is the mark of a civilised society. In many ways Australia does some of these things very well when it sets its mind to it, but in many other areas it displays what might be called benevolent ignorance or benevolent neglect. 
What is the score as far as Australia is concerned? At this point in history I think Australia is the wealthiest country per capita on the globe. I think that each one of us has behind us more resources and potential in such things as mining production, primary industry and manufacturing industry than most other people on this planet. I think that we are applying ourselves to the solution of the problems being discussed here this afternoon with less verve than many other countries with which we are normally associated. I think the whole philosophy of our approach to social welfare and the security of human beings is under discussion here today. Our whole society is under challenge unless we resolve this problem. 
High wages are part of the reason why people are able to prepare for their old age and for their retirement. I am one of those who, all their working life, have been fortunate enough to be the beneficiary of a protective system of superannuation. I refer to my time as a State public servant in Victoria and as a potential superannuant of this institution. I have always made a substantial contribution towards my retirement through the various systems. It is interesting to note that our society is able to supply a satisfactory emolument in retirement or old age to perhaps somewhere between 20 per cent and 25 per cent of the population. It might even be more than that if we take into account the people in private superannuation funds and the people in statutory authorities paying into superannuation schemes and so on. Then there are the other people, such as the totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners, for whom we have been able to make satisfactory financial arrangements, as we have for war widows. But I suppose that something like one million people at least are still on the edge of poverty while in retirement these days. 
-That is true. We pay 1  Vi  per cent of our salary into a superannuation fund but our salary also comes from public funds. So it is a kind of continuing round-about system. I think we have to start to look at the situation of a reorganisation of our duties in this regard and the way in which our whole social and economic system functions. The arithmetic is that there are 14 million people in the country, of whom six million or thereabouts are employed. Of the other eight million, some three million to four million are children not of working age. Some two million or three million are probably in retirement and the rest consist of family people who are not at work. We have to resolve the difficulties of the re-arrangement of income and government funding in order to accommodate all the other people. I do not think that that ought to be a terribly difficult matter. But we are not going to face it if people in this House stand up and demand a reduction in taxation. I think the taxation system in Australia is inequitable. I think it is nonsensical that people can make millions of dollars and remit them overseas and then make a very small contribution to this country's welfare. I think it is nonsensical that people can make immense capital gains and pay nothing in tax. I think that the acquisition of wealth in this country is not treated equitably in the taxation system. This is responsible for putting us in the difficult budgetary situation in which we find ourselves today. 
The time has come for us to examine this matter in much greater depth. It would be presumptuous of any of us- even me- to say that we know what is the actual technical solution, but I say emphatically that if my taxation were to rise and if as a result I were to see a solution of these social problems, I would pay it happily, and I would not mind betting that most people in Australia would be in the same situation. We live in a fairly commonsense, fairly mature and reasonably thoughtful community. It is a community in which people can raise immense sums from door knocks for the Red Cross, children's hospitals or even the Winston Churchill appeal which was held a few years back. Millions can be raised by door knocks in Austrafia. We live in a country which built the magnificent Opera House in Sydney from proceeds that might be called raffles. Therefore I do not think that financial solution of these problems is impossible. We have to get around to doing it in a new way. 
I want to take issue with one principle which usually finds its way into these matters, that is, the question of matching grants. I think it is bad enough when we ask States to meet us on a matching grant basis, whether it is $1 for $1, $2 for $1 or $4 for $1. It is the perpetuation of inequality. I think the statistics would show that Victoria is the wealthiest part of Australia. It ought to be. If it had the same sort of decent government as do the people of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania, it would be. But there are still differentials between States. In some areas of social welfare Queensland lags. In other areas other States lag. There is no equality in Australia between State governments' actions in this regard. While matching grants are given inequality will be perpetuated. 
I have held the belief for a long while- I think ever since I entered this Parliament- that the only way for this Parliament to ensure that the people receive equal treatment from one end of the continent to the other is to accept the direct responsibility. But I support the view that other existing agencies can carry out the actual administrative and technical arrangements on the spot for us. I believe that in the past we have neglected the capacity of municipalities to do this work. I think that the capacity, the administrative skills and competence of municipalities are patchy. Some are first class, some are stodgy and some are probably incompetent. But in fact we often load upon them demands to act on our behalf for which we make inadequate financial arrangements. I am against matching grants as a principle. 
Once we look past the administration of State governments where one may say that the inequalities are less apparent to the actual localities which so many of us represent, the inequalities are magnified. I represent an industrial area of Melbourne. I would think that for each square kilometre, hectare or acre the area is more productive than most other pans of this continent because it has a high concentration of very productive factories. Its productivity has nothing in particular to do with the skills of the people because across the continent they are not much different. It is also an area which is grossly deprived in so many respects. Its natural physical environment is less desirable than many other parts of the country. Also, despite the great productivity of the area the average income of the people is lower and therefore their capacity to produce funds through their municipality or by private effort through local organisations and to take the benefit of matching grants that flow to them is lesser. 
The inequalities that exist between, say, Coburg and Camberwell or between Brunswick and Balwyn are magnified. I think that we have to face that responsibility here. I would ask the Minister to do what he can to start and to keep that philosophy flowing. He represents a fairly large slice of Australian real estate, some of which is well endowed and some of which is not so well endowed. I think that our job here as a parliament is to try to iron out the inequalities in Australia. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Franklin about the responsibilities of the people who administer these areas for us. In many respects I think that the participation of private organisations or non-official organisations is desirable. 
I am not one of those people who think that the solution to all social problems lies in actual official efforts although I must say that in this city I found that the Department of the Captial Territory was a particularly thoughtful instrument for carrying out social measures. In many respects it was just as thoughtful- it may even have been more so- as some private organisations. It is true that private organisations can get into the hands of people who have pretty hard line social attitudes. The homeless people's service which is part of this Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill is very important indeed. I think it was during the term of office of the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  as Minister for Health that this scheme got under way as a formal governmental exercise. One of the most depressing features in the last few years of course has been the increase in the number of young people who are floating in the community. Therefore what we are doing here tonight I think is meagre indeed compared with the needs of the system. 
The housekeeper service seems to me to be under threat. I would regard the housekeeper service and home care services as fundamental social and economic exercises. For those people who like to place economic values on these items the reduction in effort in housekeeper and domiciliary services is an indication to increase the institutionalisation of people. 'Institutionalisation' is a dreadful word. Perhaps I had better put it this way: the people become refugees in institutions rather than residents in their own homes. I would say from my experience and observation that there is now an increasing awareness of this problem throughout the community. Even where there have to be institutions perhaps local country hospitals and so on could be more adequately supported than they are in the supply of accommodation for people who can no longer look after themselves. I do not think I am as critical of the children as was my friend, the honourable member for Franklin. 
We have become rather stodgy in the way that we look at housing, particularly at government level, over the last 20 or 30 years. On the whole, as the facilities inside houses have increased, we have decreased the size of the houses. There is no doubt in my mind that a great deal of the social tensions between families- I would think that a good deal of the break-up of marriages- comes from the inadequacy of the home to be able to give people reasonable privacy or comfort in need or to allow parents or anybody else to feel at home. Any system which allowed people to get funds more easily to expand their houses in order to support parents would be a very great social advantage indeed. I see it as a total system. In the golden age when I administered this city that was one of the pressures which I attempted to apply to the system, as I have no doubt that my friend the Minister for Health did in his time. I asked why the rooms were a particular size. I was told that the point is that if we cut a foot off every room in 1,000 houses we would have another 10 or 12 houses for the same money. If that idea could be carried to its logical conclusion, we could take out the baths or take off the door knobs in order to build another half house. 
One of the depressing features of this city is that as we have got wealthier, as the country has become richer and as we have got a greater capacity to do things, the actual standard of public housing here has decreased relative to those houses that were built, say, in the 1930s. I would think that many of the houses that I see around here that were built in the 1930s by the Government were of a much higher standard than the general housing of the rest of the community. I would think that whilst the quality of the work and the finish in government houses is as good as one will find anywhere else, on the whole they are smaller than most people want. So I am not content to praise this meagre legislation. I do not see that the increase from $13. 8m to $15. 5m takes up the challenge that has been issued to us by reports on poverty and so on. 
I do not think that we are doing anything much at all financially about homeless persons in this legislation. As I have said, we made an allocation of about $9m originally; we have used $3. 6m and another $3. 6m has been allocated. In fact the allocation of $9m which was made some time back has not been totally used. There might be all sorts of reasons for that. Are we administering it in too tight a way? I hope that the Minister will gird his loins, get out his white charger and take on the rather pedestrian cabineteers who make the final decisions in these matters. I think that the people- I am thinking particularly of the homeless people who are social refugeeswill have to look for a long while before this Government solves any of their problems. I have put in a word for elderly citizens' centres and particularly for social workers. 
One of the disastrous effects of continuous changes in policies and depression of government action is the impact that has upon the professional people who have committed themselves to the social welfare area. Over the last 18 months or more- perhaps for two years- they have all felt that they are living on borrowed time, and that is not good enough. So I hope that the Minister will take to heart those things that have been either implied or actually said here and that he will not rest on his laurels. I do not think we need to talk about financial constraints. What we need to talk about is social aspirations. 
I am totally unhappy about the dismantling of so many Labor Government programs or the failure to carry those programs forward with the impetus which they once had. I suppose it is asking too much of this Government to change the direction of its action. I can only hope that the rest of the citizenry of Australia will wake up to the Government as soon as practicable. If this does not happen I hope that at least people like the honourable member for Franklin and other honourable members who have spoken in this debate will see that it is time to get on with the job and make the Government front up to its responsibilities. 
-Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to the findings of the gallup poll on the Budget indicating that only 22 per cent - 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
Will the Government introduce legislation to prevent companies and individuals causing unemployment in the course of their efforts to increase individual wealth. 
Is it a fact that its much publicised efforts to lower interest on bank overdrafts under $ 100,000 are of huie practical benefit to industry because the trading banks strenuously avoid granting these overdrafts and force small companies to accept bills and term loans at much higher rates of interest. 
Is it also a fact that small companies requiring funds to cover the effects of inflation, and attempting to borrow from a bank, such as the ANZ Banking Group, are required to provide first mortgage security over personal assets such as the homes of their directors, whilst the same bank grants multi-million dollar loans to individuals wishing to strip public companies of assets for personal gain, these large loans being secured against the shares in the public companies concerned. 
Has the Government's attention been drawn to the situation in Marrickville Holdings Ltd where control was attained by Southern Packers Pty Ltd, a company in turn controlled by a family named Liberman and the former company deliberately put into a loss situation to force minority shareholders to sell, with resulting destruction of many jobs. 
Will the Government take action to prevent a recurrence of the situation in which the ANZ Bank spent millions of dollars overseas on stainless steel fittings for their new luxury office in Melbourne, these fittings being readily procurable in Australia with consequent benefit to employment. 
-I want to raise a question which is important to the nation and of particular importance to this Parliament and that is: Who is making the decisions? For so long whenever there has been a union strike for better conditions or something such as that we have heard the cry, 'Who is ruling Australia?' Well, who is ruling it now as the result of the decision of the Government to surrender to General Motors-Holden's Ltd on the question of Australian content in motor cars? A few weeks ago this country received a message from the General Motors Corporation in the United States of America saying that it would build motor cars in Australia if we reduced the Australian content in cars. The Government was given approximately a fortnight in which to do that and, such is its puppetry, the Government danced to General Motors' string pulling and agreed to it. 
What does it mean? None of us have been told. In this morning's newspaper there is a report of a meeting held in Melbourne between General Motors-Holden's and the unions at which, as the unions have said, the unions asked the questions but received no answers. What will be the results? It is said that the company will make for export some 200,000 engines. How much employment will this mean? I have not been to Japan to look at the factories there but from what I have seen on television I understand that companies such as Toyota have an almost totally automated engine assembly plant. While there is talk that this proposal will produce perhaps 10,000 jobs, I will be surprised if more than 1,000 people are employed in the motor construction plant. 
What will that do to the Australian components industry which now produces about 20 per cent of motor cars and employs thousands of people throughout the Australian industrial scene, particularly in areas such as the one I represent where the components of motor cars are being constructed by highly skilled workers in factories which often do not employ more than 100 people? How much are we going to receive in import earnings? Perhaps it might be $80m if we get $400 for each of the 200,000 motor cars. How much Australian material will be used? I suppose the engines will weigh about 400 cwt each and, if that were all steel, about 40,000 tons of steel would be used. That is chicken feed. But what does it do to the Australian industry? It is time we had a proper analysis of the proposal laid on the table. What offends me more than anything is that the government of a supposed sovereign country such as this dances the moment the strings from Detroit are pulled. I think it is a total disgrace. The Government has no will of its own; it surrenders to anyone overseas, particularly anyone with money. 
That is only one issue. The second issue is that some time ago we decided on a world parity price for oil. I thought that that was the height of economic nonsense. The fact is that we put up the price of Australian oil to Australian consumers for the benefit of the producers, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Esso Australia Ltd. That means that if we adopted that action as policy, every time the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries met and made a decision about the price of oil, we would not make the decision about the price of oil to the Australian consumers because we would have surrendered the initiative to the people overseas. It is another piece of puppetry. 
There is a third piece of puppetry which is even more disgraceful and that is the way in which we allow the Indonesian Government to decide some of our policies for us. There are two men in prison in Papua New Guinea. They are refugees from West Irian who were attempting to arouse in the people of West Irian an awareness of their rights. Having been suppressed by Indonesia, they retreated to Papua New Guinea where they were put in gaol and they will not be let out until someone offers them refuge; but we are too miserable to do that. Of course, that is not the only thing. Another most disgraceful incident was the suppression of the radio in Darwin. They are three classic examples of puppetry from what is supposed to be a sovereign government. It is a disgrace to the country. The Government is not fit to govern. 
-A moment ago the Acting Whip for the Government side spoke to me and said that this debate was going to be adjourned, but I note that he is not here so I will proceed. I take up from where the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  left off.  His  remarks appeared to be a jeremiad rather than an address to this House. I cannot understand why he would bother to come into this House on a significant debate such as this and spend his time dealing with omissions or commissions of the  President  of the United States. This debate is about Australia's participation in foreign affairs. I do not know what the  President  of the United States or anybody else could do, because I believe in this idea: If a nation believes that it is large and powerful, that it has some strings it can pull and some influence it can exert on the people, that belief belongs to the past. I will add to that in a moment or two. 
Of course, from the Government side we have heard laudatory comments about the speech from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  What did the Minister say? He described events in Africa. He described events in Indo-China. He described events in the Middle East. He taked about oil. He had descriptions but no prescriptions.  His  speech was a combination of hand wringing, which was rather discreet, and there was a slightly condescending attitude towards America with the suggestion that it was not really doing what it ought to do. The Minister did not indicate how the United States should do what it ought to do or whether it would get any results if it attempted to do something. Then there was some complacency. In the last page of the Minister's speech he did mention that we could stimulate interest. From the Government side we have heard this rather sad commentary on the approach to foreign affairs that now we are suddenly facing a threat of war. 
The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  said that there was a chilling message for us in the events in Indo-China. It is a chilling message but it is not of the sort he mentions. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  referred to the cold war as did my colleague the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  I realise that one has to approach this with more pessimism than one would ordinarily have in approaching a debate on foreign affairs in this place. I am with the people who believe that you have to put your trust in something, whether it is God, humanity, or the United Nations, but you do of course keep your powder dry. But is there a threat to Australia in this? 
I want to raise some of the questions involved. First, consider for a moment the present situation. There is a fairly still sort of war. It seems to me to be reminiscent of the first phases of the 1939 war in France between the Germans and the French, a sort of stand-off situation in which, probably, many people are hurt unnecessarily and many people are killed and unsettled, but there is no great push. But in 1 9 1 4 when an event such as this stirred the world there was a global war. In 1939 when events such as this occurred there was a global war. In 1956 when the British and the French invaded Egyptian territory- in conjunction with the Israelis- to capture the Suez canal there was an immediate threat of war from the Russians. Those forces withdrew. What do we have in 1979? It seems to me that there is a totally different quality in the state of human affairs. We have a stand-off situation. We should be asking: How do we capitalise on this? I venture to suggest that if these events had occurred in this way 20-odd years ago, or a little later, the Russians already would have invaded China. I venture to suggest that the Americans or somebody else would have come in on the southern side involved in the dispute and that we would have been confronted with a global war. There is a different climate and different environment. I think we should be setting out to capitalise on that. 
Perhaps there is not much that one can say or do in a 1 5-minute speech in a debate such as this. I am grateful for the opportunity- so rare today- to speak on foreign affairs. What can a small country such as Australia do? Let us look at the problems. Disarmament is one of the great challenges to the modern world. It is true that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America are producing enormous quantifies of arms. I have a feeling that their societies are so  structured  around the military complex that they cannot really stop. Sitting around a table and talking they will never come to a solution. Somebody else has to start to arbitrate. In the United Nations Security Council the power of veto is in the hands of the British, the French, the United States, the USSR and China. The Council is not going to intervene successfully. We have to face up to that. How can we initiate effective disarmament in the world? Are we prepared to negotiate with, say, the Indonesians, for whom I have the greatest possible contempt because of some aspects of their behaviour over the last four or five years, and say: 'Let us cut down our arms in relation to the people around us'? It would take a great deal of trust on our part and, I have no doubt, a great deal on the part of Indonesia and its neighbours. 
Another question is: How do we expand the democratic institutions of the world? I believe that there is more security in democratic nations than in undemocratic nations. How do we proceed to expand human rights and how do we overcome the obsession with sovereignty which, of course, stops us from acting over most of the world? I do not agree with my colleague from Deakin. I think South Africa offers a principal challenge to this concept. If the world eventually takes effective action against South Africa- I hope not by invasion of forces which destroy the countryside or kill people or anything of that sort but by effective sanctions- we will have broken the sacred faith in sovereignty and shown the people of the world that we are our brother's keeper. It is tragic and a commentary on the whole of humanity that what happened in Kampuchea should have been allowed to continue and that we could do nothing about it. 
In the last three or four years there has been a disheartening increase in hostility and suspicion in the USSR. I think that of the great nations the USSR is one of the most difficult to get along with. China has managed to create a different atmosphere about itself I do not know that the Government of China is so much more free but most of us feel that we can talk to the Chinese and come to some sort of negotiating position with them more easily than with the Russians. I do not think our distrust or suspicion of Russia is so justified. I cannot see any possibility of the Americans and the Russians coming to war. 
What would be the result, after all, if we had around the table in the middle of the chamber the leader of Russia,  Mr Brezhnev, Mr Carterlittle  as my friend from Deakin thinks of himand  Mr Deng  Xiaoping, the Chinese  Deputy  Premier. I apologise for not pronouncing Chinese words as well as Chinese people handle English. If those people were sitting at that table they would all say: 'We do not want war'. That is the universal message of humanity. We have to learn to capitalise on this by some means or other. 
I belong to the school of thought that says that one's influence on the world in general and around the tables will be related not to the number of battalions one can command or one 's weight in battleships but to the kind of integrity and spirit one can bring. That is a message we ought to take up. People are inclined to say: 'We are so small, what can we do?' Is that the way the rest of the world thinks? Why are we so cravenperhaps this is out of context with the theme of my speech- in the face of some the behaviour of Indonesia? What is the situation with Vietnam and China, a small nation and a huge one? The Vietnamese do not seem to quail. What is the position in the Middle East? Israel is surrounded by a host of enemies. It does not seem to flinch. What is the position of Yugoslavia? For 25 years or more it has stood firm and steady against what appeared to be the forces of Russia. A heartening aspect was the behaviour of Albania, which attacked everybody- the Russians the Americans and the Chinese, and all its neighbours also. 
Australia is out of character with modern times if we believe that power will decide issues. I- do not support the Metternichian view of the world, that there has to be an equilibrium of power enforced against people's will. I have a list of 1 5 or 20 difficulties in the world. I do not know which one of them is the one that the world could tackle best with the resources at its disposal. Take the situation in Cyprus. Over the last five or six years the United Nations has moved resolutions on Cyprus, demanding, asking, requesting that the Turks withdraw and they have not withdrawn. Why will they not do that? In the few minutes left to me I shall suggest that we have to look at the structure of the United Nations. What has to be done? We must change the structure. I sat in on the Security Council debate a few weeks ago when the Kampuchea and Vietnam fracas was discussed. Thirteen representatives voted yes and two voted no. But the resolution still did not have the numbers because the Russians had to be part of the unanimity of the system. It is a totally absurd, irrelevant, anachronistic, gerrymander, a relic of 1945. So we have reached the situation in which 50 million Britons, or 50 million Frenchmen, or 250 million Americans or Russians, or even 800 million Chinese can stop over 4,000 million people of the world by having their representatives act in this way. 
I suggest that this House and the relevant committees of the Parliament and the parties start to examine the situation of the United Nations and its structure, its total inability to act in the political arena. It is very effective on some administrative matters. The World Health Organisation of the United Nations has been partly instrumental in eradicating smallpox. Great co-operative systems have been developed in aviation and other fields but until we change the political structure of the United Nations, give it a great political input and power, and remove the obstruction that comes from the people who presently hold the power of veto, we will not make progress. The challenge for Australia is to initiate internationally such debate and such movement of ideas. I believe that over history the movement of ideas has flowed not from the weight of battleships but from the integrity in power and thought that one can bring to debates when people meet around tables and in conference rooms. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is it the policy of this Government, as part of the attack on inflation, to reduce the level of real wages in Australia and oppose all efforts of the trade union movement to obtain wage increases in line with increases in prices? Is it the Prime Minister's personal policy as a rural producer and a farmer to obtain for the - 
I think the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  made a fair effort of defending the indefensible, but I am afraid the defendant, that is the Government, will have to be found guilty and convicted just the same. What did the honourable member mean by some of the statements he made? He said that the Public Service had now been brought well under control. Just what on earth does that mean from a person who lives in a capital city which is controlled and has been developed by the Public Service? The Public Service is always under control. This Government may have a policy of reducing the Public Service or expanding the Public Service, but the system by which it develops is a tightly controlled one as any of us who have been in government can testify. 
Of course, what we heard from the honourable member was a fine exposure of the fallacy behind the economic policies of his Government. He was elected on the policy of reduction of the Public Service and reduction of public expenditure. They were two major features of the speeches and the policies of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  or the caretaker Treasurer and the caretaker Prime Minister back in 1975. I cannot understand how every person in Canberra did not see that the present Government's policies were poison to Canberra. One could possibly sell those policies to people in Melbourne, but in Canberra the policies were the signposts of destruction and stagnation. That is the policy on which the honourable member was elected. What is the use of complaining now? I understand and have sympathy for his feelings for the people of Canberra. If this Government reduces public expenditure in Canberra and reduces the Public Service it does all of the things of which he complains. 
The honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)-  perhaps it was he who interjected a moment ago or he was just -waking up- and other honourable members might say: What do you mean by that?' The point that is being espoused is of course the theory behind the present Government's policies, which is that if one reduces expenditure in the public sector, the money one saves will be almost automatically transferred to some sort of economic dynamism in the private sector. Of course, that has not happened. In this city there has been a reduction not only in the Public Service but also a partial collapse in the private sector as well. It is a total exposure. I agree with the honourable member. It was a rather muted statement but he did say that the Public Service of Canberra is important to the welfare of Australia. I assert that emphatically. There is too much attack upon the Public Service and the public servant. There is too much criticism of the person who is called a bureaucrat in a derogatory sense. We have to refute that. I do not see any future for Australia unless we recognise that the public sector- I mean wider things than the Public Service in that term- is fundamental to the future economic health of 
Australia. There can be little expansion of the private sector unless it is initiated by the dynamics of the public sector. Canberra is a classic example of that. I know that that does not fall sweetly on the ears of honourable members opposite. They do not believe it. I know that many people do not believe it. But we have to examine that matter as thoroughly as possible. 
I do not know that they do. I think that the private sector is more dependent upon the public sector, particularly in the construction industry and such things. Of course in this country the public sector supplies most of the backbone and background of industry. Most transport, almost all the major communications systems, most of the power, gas, water, wharf services and all the rest that goes to make the background of a nation's industry we rely upon the public sector in Australia to provide. 
I repeat some of the things that were said here. My colleague from Fraser  (Mr Fry)  pointed out that since 1975 unemployment had increased by four times. I could take up many of the issues that the honourable member raised in his speech. I shall say something about payroll tax in a moment or two. I thank the honourable member for paying a tribute to one of the early Ministers for the Capital Territory, the honourable member for Wills. He mentioned some of the things that had turned Belconnen from a wilderness into a garden. The shopping centre at Belconnen was sent on its way during the golden age, 1972-75. It would not have been developed if we had not been in government. 
I suppose that it is something, that  Senator Withers  could have stopped it and he did not. I think that ought to go in the record in golden words. The fruit market and sports centre were also initiated in that period. I suppose it is reasonable at this time to say that in the discussions on the sports centre in 1975 there were many debates about whether we should proceed with such a project. 
-Your Government? 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Before doing so,  Mr Speaker,  I must say that I am in favour of free speech for Speakers. I note with dismay and some sense of shame that the Government has not been able to find room in Australia for the leaders of the Irian Jaya Freedom Movement who are refugees from Indonesian oppression. If Australia cannot help in such matters why does it not help other people wishing to assist refugees such as Chief Moli Stevens from the New Hebrides who is offering a home to refugees from Vietnam. Why has the Minister refused to see the Chief and thereby given such an unfavourable view of Australia's attitude? Does the Chief really have anything to offer in this situation? 
-I support the remarks that have been made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and, of course, the legislation itself. However, I ask the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  to take a closer look at some of the things that ought to have been done, in particular that which was mentioned by the honourable member for Corio. The interesting feature of this legislation is the number of amendments- some 28- that have been made to it since 1948. The Parliament is in continual search for an equitable system for the payment of people who have been injured in the service of their country. The same will be evident later in our consideration of the Repatriation Act. I take it that the history of human affairs is such that we will probably have to keep up the process, even under the benign administration of the present Minister- given and granted, of course, the guidance from this side of the House that he so eminently needs. 
Anomalies have arisen in the treatment of people who were in the system and on pensions before 1972. I think of what happened to a friend of mine who achieved one of the highest ranks possible in the Australian armed forces and who had retired some time before that with service that was perhaps the most distinguished that anyone could have. He served in the First World War, in the Second World War and after that in Japan. Upon retiring at the appropriate age he received a pension for his time in the services. I took up his case, and that of similar people- of whom in 1972-73 there were some 8,000 or 9,000- with the then Minister, who was of my own political persuasion, in an attempt to have their situation brought up to date with the system that we were implementing. For some reason or other, on occasions such as this when we are getting around to making such amendments we always seem to be miserable to some people. We might extend justice and equity to 100,000 people but will leave 8,000 or 10,000 out in the cold. Therefore, I ask that the Minister give serious thought to bringing down an amendment of that sort. 
I am interested, in particular, in clause S, which enshrines, or ought to, some of the principles we are to use in the treatment of young people who go into retirement or are injured in such a way that they have some sort of permanent invalidity. I refer to the special invalidity benefit to members under 18 years of age. Of course, there are not that many of them, but the same principle applies, I think, to a young person who is, say 20, 2 1 or 22 years of age and is just at the beginning of his career. In the exercise of their discretion of judgement, the people who are assessing that man's invalidity and the effect that it will have upon his life are bound to consider the situation which applies at the time. In ordinary circumstances he will probably be a young man- on occasion it may be a young womanwho has left school at an earlier age that most others and has gone into the Services, where he has had some kind of apprenticeship training, or even had no special training that would allow him to claim that, in 10 or IS years, his income could be x, y, 2x or something such as that. This, of course, is one of the afflictions visited by the Services upon people in wartime. They enter upon permanent invalidity early in life and stay at the stage that one might call frustrated income development. 
I do not know whether it is possible to evaluate the situation so that in later life, by the time that person is 10 or IS years older, one could say that in normal circumstances people such as that would have advanced thus far along the scale of income-earning capacity. I recognise that that is a particularly difficult problem. It is almost an abstract one, I suppose, looked at from the angle of the accountants and the like, but I realise that in many cases people have in fact gone from the Services into a lifetime of relative poverty. Poverty might be too strong a word but in an affluent community they are greatly disadvantaged. Therefore, I ask the Minister to ascertain whether he can take steps to ensure that young people, in particular, who are injured in such a way as to be incapacitated for further work will be protected against a lifetime of inadequate income. 
Then, of course, there is the point that was made by my colleague the honourable member for Corio about the relative advantages to wives who come under the superannuation scheme compared with those who come under this scheme. 
I take it that that is not correct. 
I am glad to hear that it is not. It is one of the graces of modern society that we are abandoning some of the principles of the past, as a result of which we did chisel people out of all sorts of things. I do not know whether in this case the advantage has accrued to such people or whether they are to be equally disadvantaged. I am not au fait with the details of the Bill. In common with, I suppose, other honourable members, I rose to take part in the debate in order to give servicemen an assurance that this House and the Parliament are concerned about their welfare. If servicemen were to notice going through the House a piece of legislation to which only one honourable member had spoken they might consider, quite rightly, that we did not much care about it. That is not the case. I accept the responsibility of this Parliament to servicemen as being of a different measure to the responsibility that is owed to other people in the community. 
When a person puts on a uniform and steps into the Services, even in peacetime, that person accepts a total and absolutely unqualified commitment to his country. As a result of his service he may well be totally incapacitated or killed. Even though that service may, over a long period, be in the quietest corner of the barracks, he is on call and his service, therefore, is totally unqualified. I accept the fact that some advantages should flow to people in the Services, and in kindred employment, over and above those afforded to other people in the employment system. I hope that the Minister will note the remarks of my friend the honourable member for Corio and do something about the matters that have been raised here. I recognise that there is a certain piquancy about this debate in that we have here an example of someone who has actually managed to beat the system for a while. I agree that we ought to iron that out but it is piquant to note that, event though a lot of people in the world do not get that to which they are entitled, sometimes someone can get something to which he is not entitled. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, like you, I extend a particular welcome to the members of the National Aboriginal Conference. 
I regard the introduction of the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill as a backward step. Nothing in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  or in the remarks of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  convinces me that it is anything other than that. I do not think it is relevant to consider streamlining a piece of legislation unless it is likely to produce a better system for the ex-servicemen and women of Australia. We are speaking in this debate about the rights of hundreds of thousands of people. It is true to say that those rights are now a fading vision. It is approximately six years since the last men and women came home from Vietnam; it is about 25 years since the last men and women came home from Korea; it is 34 years since they came home from the Second World War; and it is 60 years since they came home from the First World War. 
I have the feeling that this legislation is part of the machinery which is being established to try to get the claims of ex-servicemen and women upon the gratitude of the people of this country to fade away as fast as possible. I have heard around the Parliament mention of people who are advocating that we should abolish the whole system- give our ex-service men and women a hearty golden handshake and then ask them to go away. They will not go away. The report of the Repatriation Commission shows that, in 1977, 10 men from the South African War were still drawing pensions, and it is 79 years since they came home. So we can look forward to having around people who have this kind of claim upon the Australian people for the next 40 or 50 years. 
We have to examine very closely what we are doing in this field. The present Government has a sorry record in this area. The further in time we get from the wars, the drier become the tears of gratitude. The wars were so long ago that the people who took part in them are being forgotten. 
As has been outlined by my friend the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  we have had a reduction in benefits, even in the last three or four years. We have had a reduction in the medical and hospital treatment available to people who are on a full pension. There has been a reduction in the dependants' allowances, in relation to which none of us has done anything satisfactory over the last 15 or 20 years. Other reductions have been effected. Fringe benefits which have meant so much to many of the service men and women are slowly being whittled away. I do not think that that situation is good enough. The honourable member for Grayndler;  (Mr Stewart)  asked what were the causes of the substantial practical problems in the legislation which was brought down earlier. That is just another example of the way in which this Government has gone about its business. It makes promises without giving any consideration to the practicality of the situation. That is just another example of its performance. 
I remind honourable members that this legislation is part of a very long search for the means to establish a satisfactory repatriation system. I do not suppose that there is an absolute solution at all. In the front of the Repatriation Act I see listed some 70 amendments which have been introduced since the first Bill was brought down approximately 60 years ago. We have to commit ourselves to the proposition that the Act needs constant scrutiny and constant examination. Because of the changing circumstances in the general community, the decisions we make concerning the benefit rights of servicemen in relation to the rest of the community may well be irrelevant in 5, 10 or 15 years time. That has little to do with the war; it has to do with the society in which we live. The argument that one would apply in relation to lots of other superannuation and pension scheme benefits is that the status of people ought to change with the changing times. So we should be liberalising some aspects of the repatriation system. Although it may well be desirable to talk about tidiness, streamlining and carrying out more logical examinations of matters, that is secondary to the fact that people are not getting a fair enough go. We of the Opposition are not alone in saying that. The evidence is contained in the report of one of the tribunals. 
One of the interesting occurrences to me was the decision taken some two or three years ago to change the name of the Department. It used to be called the Repatriation Department. Everybody talked about 'the Repat Department'. I am talking about thousands of people in this community. The War Memorial lists the names of 100,000 men and women who were killed in the wars. Approximately three-quarters of a million people volunteered to serve anywhere in the world during the Second World War. A total of one million people went through the Services. In the First World War there were 400,000 volunteers and about 3 13,000 people sailed away from these shores. We are talking about a mammoth commitment by the Australian people at that time and what I believe to be a moral demand upon us to examine the situation and to ensure that the commitment that they accepted is met with equal commitment on our part. 
Servicemen experience extraordinary difficulty in proving a case these days. I do not think that this legislation will make it any easier for them to do so. It may make it tidier; it may appeal to the legal fraternity and to those who look at administrative systems. I do not think that it will make it easier at all. The question of evidence has been raised by my friend from Grayndler. I refer to the annual report of No. 4 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal for the year ended 30 June 1978. A substantial change to the spirit of the Act has been implemented. One has to show that there is a causal relationship between one's war disability and one's war service. In many instances that is very difficult to prove. Over a period of many years we have conducted a campaign to have accepted the view that, unless the Department, the Commission, or the responsible tribunal could establish that there was no causal relationship, that relationship should be accepted. The Entitlement Appeal Tribunal states as follows: 
Many appellants are not yet aware that there is now a clear requirement for the establishment on the evidence before us of one of the causal links between incapacity or death and eligible service which are prescribed by statute . . . it is no longer sufficient to rely on the inability of the Repatriation Commission to disprove aetiological possibilities of varying degrees of remoteness. 
Most appeals still relate to the 1939-45 war and the 1977 amendments have accentuated the difficulties which arise through the effluxion of time. Widows are clearly disadvantaged. 
I think I should read again the lines read by my friend from Grayndler: 
However, the Act makes no separate provision for this eventuality - 
That is talking of the inability of widows to prove a case. The Tribunal continues: 
The widows of servicemen who were prisoners of war in the Pacific theatre are particularly disadvantaged. 
Surely that is apparent to everybody. How does a person prove that what happened to him in 1 945 on a field somewhere in Borneo, in New Guinea, in the Middle East, in the air or on the sea is now causing him serious disabilities? I do not think that we have gone about this matter in a scientific way. I am suggesting that the time has come for a scientific examination of the problem to be carried out. 
By the year 1944-45 the people in the Australian Army, particularly those who were in the infantry and who were sent to the various war zones, were probably the toughest and fittest people one could find in the country and possibly on this planet. By the time the people in the Army had been put through the sifting machine, which included going to places like Canungra, there was no room in the system for them unless they could get up and keep going no matter what had happened to them. Back in 1944-45 those people- this probably includes some of the members of this Parliament- were probably the toughest and fittest people in the country. It is logical to presume that, unless they were disabled during the war, they should still be in 1979-35 years later- the fittest of their generation. The problem arises when they put their applications before the tribunals. There is no logical attitude on the part of the people who examine them. The people on these tribunals, who would be an average of 20 to 30 years younger, say: 'It is just because you are too old. You are over the hill. You can expect this sort of thing to happen to you'. What I am suggesting is that we should examine thoroughly a group of them and see how fit they are in 1979. Let us take the infantry battalion to which I belonged in 1945. 
It was the 2/33 Battalion of the 7th Division. Its only serious disability was that a lot of the soldiers came from Sydney. Apart from that, they were first class soldiers. They were pretty tough, they were pretty rough, and they knew how to deal with all sorts of people- their friends, their allies and their enemies. On occasions they drew very little distinction between people and how they would deal with them. As I say, they were on their last parade, as indeed were the members of every one of the other 40 or 50 battalions we had at the time, people of exceptional physical capacity. We could track down a number of those people without any great difficulty at all and examine them. We could find those who are still alive of the 750 soldiers or thereabouts who were on that parade and determine their physical capacity. We could then take a similar group in the community who did not serve or who served where the going was not quite so rough and see how the two groups equate I suggest that if they were the fittest in 1944-45 and if they are not still the fittest of their generation, they have a case to show that they have a demand upon the repatriation benefits of Australia, even if they cannot prove the causal relationship. It was my fortune to administer the portfolio of repatriation in an acting capacity for about four weeks back in 1973-74. 
-The department stood it all right. At that time I tried to float the suggestion that we do something like this and as far as I know there has not been anything done of that order. Even if it has nothing whatsoever to do with the position before us tonight of claims for repatriation benefits, it may well be a substantial contribution to medical science to carry out such a piece of research. There is no doubt that in the Second World War we had better records. People could prove their case better; they could prove much more easily than those in the 1914-18 War that they were once fit. So  ask that we start to consider this matter in a more scientific way. 
We also have to consider the fact that it is especially tough for a person now, 35 years later, to show the causal relationship. It is almost impossible for widows to do so. I suppose that in the last year or so a couple of dozen people have contacted me and said things like: 'George died a few weeks ago. He had been sick for the last five or six years. I remember when he came home from the War in 1945. He wasn't too well but he got better. He didn't have too much trouble over the years'. What chance has the widow got? In many instances the widows are not even sure about the unit in which their husbands served. 
They have no possible chance of proving anything. Any changes towards legalism in this system are going to prejudice the people who are making the claims upon the system. Therefore I suggest that this House ought to vote for the amendment. We ought to start to do something about re-arranging the system. As I say, I think we have a duty in this matter which transcends any other consideration of economy or anything else. It is a total duty. 
I think we have made the Bill more complicated. I do not see any reason for worrying about appeals on questions of law. How are people going to handle that? We should make the law in such a way that the matters can be handled by the tribunals without reference to courts, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal or anything else. I do not think that they are advances at all. The difficulties of interpretation are going to be compounded by this legislation. We have to remember that the original spirit of the system was that the benefit of the doubt would be given to the serviceman. I am not too sure that that spirit has ever been carried out. 
-That is right and he gave us very strong opinions about it. What I want to show is that in fact, no matter what the law says, at various times it has been easier for some people than others to prove their case. Of course the people who got the roughest run of all were those who served in the First World War. Anybody who has read much about the First World War or who has spoken to anybody who served in it cannot really understand how anybody survived it, let alone came home to claim pensions 50 or 60 years later. The figures as to the number of men who survived the First World War and who claimed pensions look ridiculously small to me. The figures in the last report of the Repatriation Commission, as it was called, show that in 1950 or 1951, more than 30 years after the First World War, some 15,000 men who returned from that War were receiving pensions. That is an infinitesimal number. In fact it looks extraordinarily small to me. I might check it afterwards and find out whether there is some different statistical way of treating things these days. As I said earlier, some 330,000 men and women sailed from Australia in the First World War. There was a casualty rate of about 95 per cent and 60,000 people killed. Their names are inscribed on the walls at the War Memorial. They had the highest casualty rate of anybody in the Allied Armies because they were nearly all front line troops and they served under dreadful conditions. Those surviving the First World War are entitled to some special consideration now, and I hope that they are getting it. I rather suspect that they are, although the figures reveal that the number now receiving pensions is not that high. Of course the actual figure is probably concealed in the number of Service pensions, but that is a pretty ungracious way of doing it. There is no doubt that, particularly for the First World War people, the umbrella of the repatriation system has a psychological effect. It is a piece of social and medical therapy in its own right. The latest figures- that is, as at the end of 1978- show that of thse who survived the Second World War only 100,000 veterans were receiving pensions. 'Veteran' is not the word that most of us use. So 100,000 of the 750,000 who served are receiving pensions. If I remember correctly, the figures show that there were 180,000 battle casualties in the Second World War. So we are getting to the situation where about 100,000 of the 180,000 are receiving a pension. They would not all be battle casualties but the percentage would be much higher for the Second World War than for the First World War. All these figures show that the people who were the earliest into the system are the ones who have got the least. Therefore it is time for a re-evaluation of the system. 
On the whole, most of these members of the Services are not all that worried about their pension entitlements unless they are retiring with no superannuation and things like that. But they are concerned about the fringe benefits, such as medical benefits. There is no coverage like repatriation coverage. I cannot understand how anybody who has been through the repatriation system and who has had the advantage and the benefit of the repatriation system should oppose the introduction of a national health service. It struck me that no matter what a person's estate, whether it be high or low, even if he opposed any idea of there being a national health service he was very glad that he was able to benefit from the repatriation health system. We should be expanding such health services. During our term of office we expanded the availability of the hospitals to encompass the local communities. I do not think that service has been used as much as it ought to have been. 
What I am suggesting to the Minister is that at this stage, a long while after the sounds of battle have died, it is time to re-evaluate the way in which we carry out our duties in this matter. It is very difficult for people who have come onto this planet years after a war has ended to imagine what it was all about, and to understand that it is still possible to be struck down by things that happened 30 or 40 years ago, even if the complaint has not worried that person in the interim. I have seen men who have had injuries for 40 or 50 years and who have gone to work, gone off duty for a few days, gone back to work again and then collapsed because of an ulcer condition, a heart attack or something like that, only to find repatriation benefits and so on being denied to them because their disability could not be proved. The human frame was not made to carry extra holes in it and survive. 
I am suggesting to honourable members that they examine the whole system of repatriation. Whilst I think this legislation is a backward step, I do not believe that it is the special ambition of the Minister. I believe that he is young enough to start to revamp the whole system. I warn the Minister that he will not get much change out of many of the people who are advising him if the first thing they look at is money and the second thing they look at is the people receiving that money. 
-I raise a matter which has bothered me ever since the Government got around to changing the name of the Repatriation Department to the Department of 
Veterans' Affairs. I have no idea why the Government chose a name like 'Veterans' Affairs'. It is imitative of the rest of the world. In some ways we must be one of the world's most imitative nations. We do not seem to be able to think of anything for ourselves. The word 'repatriation' might not have been the best description of what it was about but it was enshrined and embedded in the Australian language as meaning something to do with the ex-servicemen and women of Australia. I am pleased to see that at least the Government has not tried as yet to change the names of all the Acts. 
I suppose my principal regret is that although the term 'repatriation' may not have been strict English, it was good, accepted Strine. It meant what we meant it to mean; in other words, it meant things to do with ex-servicemen and women. I hope that we will start to apply ourselves to these matters in our own way and not try to imitate other people who have chosen the word 'veteran' to refer exclusively, apparently, to people who have belonged to armies and so on. For what it is worth, I ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  to make sure that the Government does not start tinkering with accepted practices in other areas. If the Government really wants to change names it should think of something original. It should not imitate other people whose experiences in these matters are nothing like ours. 
I have only a few moments so I will conlude my remarks on this statement by emphasising as strongly as I can that there will be no hope for world peace unless we can strengthen the capacity of the United Nations to intervene in international disputes, despite the obstruction of the five permanent members of the Security Council, most of whom represent only a small proportion of the people on this planet. Australia is too negative in its approach to world problems. It waits for someone else to act then makes up its mind. We should be leading in the mobilisation of the democratic forces of the world to establish a United Nations body, not the stronghold of IS 1 officialdoms, but the voice of the people of the world, through a constituent assembly, perhaps along the lines of the soon-to-be-elected Parliament of Europe. 
I note that the Inter-Parliamentary Union, at a symposium in Geneva in April last year, discussed the general question of the relationships of the Inter-Parliamentary Union and the United Nations. During my sojourn at the United Nations with the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton),  we managed to convene meetings with the parliamentarians there and in fact established a United Nations parliamentarians group. I think that by gathering together the two threads of thought, we should be able to strengthen the United Nations so that in situations such as occurred recently in Vietnam, in 
Kampuchea, in Cyprus and elsewhere, we may be able to intervene. 
I want to stress that I think that the present structure of the Security Council is a monstrous gerrymander. Even the 800 million Chinese are not entitled to have their vote obstruct the wishes of the rest of the 4,000 million of this planet. When we get down to the French and the British with SO million people, it makes the system appear more ludicrous than ever. I hope that honourable members will give some real thought to the question of the structure of the United Nations. 
I also want to raise the question of unemployment, but with reference to unemployment benefits, the unfortunate term 'dole bludgers', and the accusation levelled at so many young people, particularly young men, that they will not work. I resent very much the use of the word 'dole' and the use of the word 'bludger'. A great campaign has been organised around the story that growers cannot get fruit pickers. This is the story of a young man from Rosebud in Victoria. He was asked or instructed or directed by the Commonwealth Employment Service to go to Cobram in the northern part of Victoria. He was given a train ticket and told to report for duty as a fruit picker. When he got there he was told that there were no jobs, so he got on the train and went back home. Next day or thereabouts he again reported to the CES and was told: 'You go off to Numurkah or Shepparton'. He got on the train and went off to one of those places, probably Shepparton, only to find again when he got there that there were no jobs. He went back home and was then sent to 
Mildura. He could not go much further than that. When he got there, there was certainly a job available. He reported to an employer in the area for a fruit picking job, and looked at the conditions in which he was going to live. The place in which he was to live was a shed with a wire netting bed and no other appropriate accommodation. There was no adequate provision for cooking his food and no way in which he could go and get any. 
Apparently there is a great deal of mismanagement of the system. I have no doubt that the fruit growers are reporting that they have vacancies. The vacancies are filled and the growers do not report that they have filled them. They do not make adequate provision for people's accommodation, and we are talking now of young people. This young man is about 20 years of age and he has been around a bit. According to his mother, he has a good work record. I propose to provide his name and address to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  together with the appropriate facts, to see whether the Minister can have some research carried out. We cannot allow this sort of thing to occur. There is nothing more disheartening than being sent off on a wild goose chase when one is looking for work. I speak as one who was unemployed for three years during the 1930s and I have a great deal of sympathy for people who cannot find work. I believe that this is one of the greatest tragedies of our time. It is going to tear apart the social fabric of the Western nations of the world, and we in Australia should start to make a more critical examination of the way we are going about it. Employment and unemployment is a much more important factor than the value of money. Inflation is a phoney value set against the question of employment and unemployment. 

 -Mr Speaker, I would like to make a brief reference to the way in which we are running this place. It is now nearly 450 days since the last election and the Notice Paper shows that we are now meeting for the 83rd time. Is it not possible for us to re-arrange the Parliamentary year so that we can accommodate better the subjects which are before the Parliament? As the situation is now, there will be three or four ministerial statements today - 
MrKillen-No. 
You must be the slowest learner in Australia. You are not going to silence me by shouting at me or saying anything you wish. One of the points that ought to be debated here is the role of the  Speaker.  I just say, in pursuance of the previous remarks, that I have no complaint,  Mr Speaker;  I do not find you any more unjust to us than you are to the people on the other side of the House. You distribute your injustices impartially. On the Notice Paper I see matters which ought to be debated- the unemployment benefit, the international situation, the peace-keeping force and so on. What is happening to this House concerns us all. A Minister makes a statement and a member of the front bench on our side of the House replies and that is the end of the matter. The rest of us might as well have stayed home. It is no way to run one of the most important, deliberative, democratic assemblies in the world. It is one of the few that remain. I think that over the years we could have spread the Parliamentary year better. I appreciate the week off on these occasions but I think that we should start at some recognised time, perhaps early in February; we ought to finish at some recognised time, perhaps late in November; and we ought to fit in another 20 or 30 sitting days during the year. I recognise that the Government is the happiest the quicker it can dive into the recess. I appeal to this Parliament to apply itself a bit more constructively to the exercise of public debate on major issues. 
This Parliament has changed substantially in the 23 years that I have been a member. When I first came here we did not debate matters concerning education or health or Aboriginal affairs, but we did have lengthy debates on foreign affairs, defence policy and the like. Such debates have now largely vanished from the scene. The legislation committees do not seem to have got under way as rapidly as we would have liked. We have to change the structure. We have to lengthen the periods in which a member has to speak. We have to give more resources to members to enable them to handle their affairs. If we do not attend to these matters this Parliament is going to come increasingly into discard in public regard. That will be a serious matter, not only for Australia but for the rest of the world because, as I said earlier, this Parliament is one of the few remaining democratic deliberative assemblies. Considering the way in which the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  runs this place, the word 'democratic' should be used in inverted commas. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to place on record the fact that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has just suppressed discussion of a matter of public importance which has been put forward by the Opposition concerning the Great Barrier Reef. I think that that matter is important. I think also that discussion of Notice No. 36, General Business, is important. The Leader of the House ought to be able to make arrangements so that all matters of such importance are able to be discussed. He is unable to do so. No wonder the nation is in such a state when the Leader of the House cannot even run the affairs of the House. Something is odd about our procedures when Notice No. 36, General Business, is brought on for discussion before the other 35 notices. I think that honourable members on this side of the House have been treated with extreme discourtesy. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  was notified only a couple of hours ago that discussion of the matter of public importance which he had proposedwould not proceed. Whilst all of us wish to debate these matters, I think a few courtesies are due to the people who have to work together consistently in this building. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I would like to remind the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and Minister Assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Adermann)  that the Opposition will not oppose the motion although I think that to preserve the integrity of this Parliament it would be wise on occasions such as this for us to use the forms of the House to ensure that Ministers understand that they often trample upon the rights of all members of the House, particularly members of the Opposition. We note that a debate on the matter raised by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  in respect of the Great Barrier Reef has been refused on several occasions. We sit down so that matters can proceed. Now the Minister wants to proceed according to the Government's program. But the last thing Ministers ever do- and this Minister is just as guilty as anybody else- is give any courteous consideration to the requirements of this side of the Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I oppose the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  I would like to say something on the question of pressure. We have all been subjected to pressure. Perhaps the Parliament is made a healthier place when the people of Australia get out of their torpor and start to tell us what they think about things. Perhaps it makes us the healthiest possible parliament when we resist them, when we do not agree with them no matter what the electoral cost may appear to be. However, I suspect that on this issue the public of Australia would probably vote against the motion of the honourable member for Hume. I am basing that assumption on some gallup polls taken at various times. I hope that each member will make his decision on the merits of the case. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  asked whether anybody would stand up and say that he believed in abortion on demand. I believe that in the position I take it can be described as demand, request or necessity, with the question of necessity being decided by the mother in conjunction with the doctor. Whatever words we wish may be used but I believe that in this context it is an unreal use of the English language to use the word 'demand' in this context. Probably we should say that it is abortion on request as a result of a necessity imposed upon the family situation or the mother as a result of her own decision. Honourable members can use any definition they like. I have outlined where I stand. I will support people in their right to obtain abortions. 
I refer rather briefly to the astonishing speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  He seemed to think that population growth was a necessity to keep the machines in the factories of Australia moving. I do not believe that the Minister has a proper appreciation of population trends which have resulted from movements going back into the 1 930s. The big increase which occurred in the birth rate in the immediate post-war period has produced various population waves ever since. I also understood, from what he said, that he thought that item 6469, which is the evacuation of the gravid uterus, should be removed from the medical benefit schedule, but he did not talk about other items such as curettes or aspirations. He was worried about the money, apparently. I believe, however, that he is a man of real morality. It would be unfair to attribute all his remarks to his worry about money. 
I am deeply disappointed with the form in which this motion has been brought before the House and at the way in which the Parliament has chosen to bring it forward giving it priority over other more important matters. It looks to me perhaps to be a political gambit on the pan of some of the members of the Government. I wish that there was no need for abortions. Many of us wish that we had had larger families. We are speaking here of the result of the most intractable of human emotions- the sexual relationship. To deny medical benefits for abortions is to place a moral judgment on the matter and on other people 's behaviour and to condemn people for misjudging matters of this sort. How many of us are capable of doing so? How many of us have the qualifications, as a result of our behaviour throughout life, to pass that kind of judgment? Let those without sin cast the first stone. 
I think that this is the most callous and retrogressive proposition that has been put to this House for many a day. It is an appeal to the most unworthy of human emotions. It involves meanness about money spent on other people. It is true that all of us share a common ethic, philosophy and morality, but the logic of the situation seems to escape us. We are all in favour of the sanctity of life. We are all in favour of the amelioration of the human lot, but we all pose different gradations upon how far we will take it. Throughout my public career I have devoted my efforts to the amelioration of the suffering of other people wheresoever I could do so. I hope, along with other members of this House, that I have been able to do so. I accept a responsibility for other people. The question involved may well be whether we are our brothers' and our sisters' keepers. We are. People have been asking why they should pay for abortions when they hold a very strong conviction against them. I pay for treatment for alcoholism. It costs this country- in all sorts of ways- perhaps $ 1,000m a year. I do not drink; I wish other people did not drink. We pay for people's treatment for lung cancer that has been induced by smoking. What kind of community would we be if we did not pay for such things? We pay for the maintenance of prisoners who have committed dreadful crimes. I have no sympathy whatsoever for the view that people should not pay for things over which they have no responsibility. 
I agree with honourable members who have doubts about how to define where life starts. Some say that life starts from the moment of conception. I do not think that the word 'life' can be used in the sense in which it has been used in this debate. We are talking about an entity of some sort which eventually will be a human life. I will leave to the medical profession the decision about the time at which a termination of pregnancy can be undertaken. I do not think that many members of this House are qualified to make a firm decision about that question. 
If we took the logic of the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume to its conclusion, what would we do about it? What sort of motion should be before the House? Should there be a return to the 17th and 18th century attitude to abortion; that in fact abortion is murder or at least manslaughter and that we should bring down laws to that effect? I could respect people who did that but it will not be done. Of course, if that were the case we would have to carry out pregnancy tests, just as we do for TB, to make sure that we catch everybody in the net. We are not going to do that. Of course we are not. If we took seriously the expressions that have been heard on this issue from honourable members from both sides of the House, that is what we would do. We will not do it. The more civilised approach would be to introduce more adequate family support systems. We do not do that either. 
What has this Government done on this question during the last three years? I look into every area of social and family support and see what has happened. Honourable members opposite have taken steps to reduce the capacity of families to handle the added child. What did they do to the Public Service in respect of the maternity and paternity leave provisions? What have they done in relation to the rental of houses? We all have a responsibility for that in this capital city. Rentals have more than doubled in the last three and a half years. What have we done with the most deprived people in the community, the Aboriginal people of Australia? Honourable members should read the report giving the figures for housing, for instance. Housing surely must go to the heart of the family matter. Expenditure of Commonwealth funds on housing for Aboriginals increased from $2.3m in 1968-69 to a peak of $45.3m in 1975-76 and that figure is now back to $40. 3m. I would have some respect for honourable members who support the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume if consistently they had supported programs for family support and treated it as a vital matter in this Parliament. We should be doing something for mothers and for children. We should be providing child care centres and the whole array of social security systems. 
Honourable members have agreed mostly to try to take no more than 10 minutes while speaking in this debate. There are many things that I would like to say. Let us take a look at the figures quoted by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Of abortions performed in South Australia, 27 per cent are procured by women under the age of 19 years- some of these women are under the age of 16 years- and 49 per cent are single. How could those people handle the situation unless there was some total change in the community? Such a situation is the product of a new and permissive society. As I said earlier, I regret that people feel the need for abortion but I can understand it. I represent a community which includes the first victims of changes in economic affairs. I suggest that honourable members read an article published recently in the Melbourne  Herald.  It is headed Taking the Lift to Despair'. It is an account of life in housing commission flats. How could people living on the 12th or 15th floor of a building face the prospect of another child when perhaps they already have two or three children? 
I think this motion is a reversion to the old idea that we pay for our sins and we pay heavily. It is one of the misfortunes of human affairs that the people who are likely to be the most seriously victimised in these matters are the women in the first instance and the poor in the second. But I have been around long enough, I have been associated with public affairs long enough, to know that it is not only the poor who need assistance in these matters. For the well-off people, I suppose the amount of money is not of great significance. But for nearly everybody else it is. Do not let any member of this House believe that if something is costing only $150 in these times it does not really matter. To the family person, every cent matters. I hope therefore that honourable members will consider this matter long and hard. If any honourable member has an amendment to support the proposition of the honourable member for Hume which will bring the matter closer to reality, then let him move it and demand that the Government bring in family support systems adequate to the situation of a person who is faced with a family she cannot possibly support. I refer to the unemployed, Aboriginals, certain migrants, the single person and the person who is the victim of unfortunate emotions. I hope that the House will reject the motion. 
-I think it is appropriate that I, as the honourable member for Wills, give some support to the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  not so much in anything that may have been said in detail but in fact on the point that was made that if the Government is setting up the Parliament House Construction Authority to construct a Parliament House for parliamentarians, the Parliament itself may well have been asked to participate in the selection of people to serve on the Authority. Some technique could have been easily devised by which panels were submitted or names were called for, and so on, and we could all feel that we had had our say. 
Let me say to the honourable member for McMillan that I have been in politics long enough to say what I mean to say and to keep saying it, even if it is hard to get through to some folk. It would be a quite simple proposition, even in an institution that is run from somebody else's private property such as this, to call for members to submit names for a panel, even to ask members of the Opposition to sit on that panel, to have curriculum vitae supplied around the place and for people to give advice about it. I would not expect my opinion on the matter necessarily to be accepted. I have been on the losing side in choices and votes for too long to expect that, but I always feel when we talk about parliament that we are talking about people's representation, the people's participation and members' participation. I would not have found it difficult and I will give the honourable member some advice later on how I managed to do it in various parts of my own governmental activities in the past. 
In support of the honourable member for McMillan, he has pointed out the rather unhappy history of human endeavour when it comes to doing such things as building parliament houses. Burley Griffin left Canberra in frustration. He was not the first person who had been frustrated in attempts to make a better Australia and he will not be the last. One of the lessons I have learnt in my life is of course that you do not stop. You never really lose a political battle; you might die before you win it, but you keep at it. I recall for the information of honourable members in this place the story of John Thomas Bigge who came out to have a look at Sydney in the early part of last century to examine the plans and programs of Governor Macquarie, and of course he was a man of his time. He would have been well placed in this Cabinet. He looked at Sydney and said: 'This plan is too grandiloquent. It is too great. You will never need anything like this.' He managed to put the stopper on that. Of course this is what has happened consistently with this project. 
This is a significant night. I think that we are right when we talk about the proposed new building as probably the most significant building and architectural project ever to be undertaken in Australia. It may not be the biggest; it may not be the most important. 
I am talking now about significance as such. It is an opportunity for the architectural profession of Australia, for the architects and the designers, but it is more than that. It is important because at a stage such as this the role of representative government in the whole world is under challenge. It survives under pressure, it survives because people stand by it. I think there are about 151 governments represented at the United Nations but only about 20 would be called representative and democratic. With a little bit of luck the undemocratic government in Uganda has gone by the board following great hardship and misery. The one in Cambodia has probably gone. However, they will not necessarily be replaced by representative governments. The Australian Parliament is the representative symbol of one of the free peoples in the world- one of the few that are free. This new building has to represent that and we will be putting up a representative symbol of the aspirations of the Australian people. I think that is what we are on about. 
Taking up the points of history which the honourable member for Burke and the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  have mentioned, going right back to the beginning, this building was put here as a temporary building. It has been a first class building. I think it has certain unique character and it has a certain functional quality but it outlived its usefulness probably as a Parliament in 1949 when the size of the Parliament was increased. We are now speaking in a parliament where there are new pressures and new practices. The building itself is largely irrelevant. The old functions of parliament where businessmen and people of property turned up, made their deliberations, went thenway and left the Government to the better orders has long passed. But most buildings in which parliaments operate in the world belong to that deliberative rather than executive, administrative and working place. I hope that whatever else we do the Parliament House Construction Authority which is to be responsible for the construction of this new building will remember that. I would like to say a few words on that in a few moments. 
What we are looking at is an authority which will be able to appreciate both the symbolic and functional nature of the task upon which it is going to embark. It is symbolic because it will be one of the most significant buildings in Australia. One of the things that one notices in modern times is that people will flock more to institutions of representative governments than they will to, say, the institutions of monarchy. If you go to London what takes your fancy are the Houses of Parliament at Westminster. If you go to Buckingham Palace you will pay some sort of pilgrimage to Westminster. The same in Washington. You will pay the same respect to the White House, but people will go by the millions through the Capitol. The same applies in Canberra. Very large numbers of people visit this place. They do not troop out to Government House. If we had on Capital Hill the symbolic structure of which Burley Griffin thought, I doubt that that is where the people would go either. There is the Australian War Memorial and the National Library of Australia but in many respects this building is one of the places of principal pilgrimage in Canberra. 
Back in 1967 the project was launched. The Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House was formed. I was a member of it. One of the first considerations of the Committee was the site of the new and permanent parliament house. There had been deliberations on this long before. In fact the Cabinet in 1958 had decided to put it down by the lake. I was one of those who thought at that stage that is where it ought to be, but once the National Library went up and once the program included the two other principal buildings in the area I became convinced that the area around it would be inadequate. The more I thought of it the more I believed that. When the Committee investigated the whole area and investigated the siting of the building on the hill, that is where I decided it ought to be. I am interested to turn back to the minutes of the time to see that that Committee had before it as one of its first deliberations this question: 
That this Committee endorses the decision of Cabinet made in 19S8 that the New and Permanent Parliament House should be situated on the lakeside site- put. 
There were 1 1 ayes and three noes. As I said earlier, I am quite accustomed to being on the losing side in the first part of a battle. The then honourable member for Angas, now the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles),  voted in favour of the lakeside site.  Senator DrakeBrockman,  myself and  Mr Luchetti,  the then honourable member for Macquarie, voted for the building to be on the hill. Subsequently a quite significant parliamentary occasion came out of it all. Whilst the Rt  Hon.  John Gorton had many magnificent failings as a Prime Minister he did have an attitude about this place. He said This ought to be a free vote', as he did on questions of Standing Orders. The report was brought before the House. There was a dissenting report which can be found on page 18 of one of the reports. A motion was moved by the then Prime Minister and seconded by the then Leader of the Opposition that the building should be on the lakeside site. There was an amendment from the then Opposition to have the building on the hill. A magnificent debate then ensued for some days. Eventually 50 voted in favour of the hill site and 39 for the lakeside site. In the Senate the votes were 42 and six respectively. 
The honourable member for Phillip will be pleased to know that bureaucracies, governments and so on do not give in all that easily. They threw into the ring the suggestion that we should look at the Camp Hill site, so we took that up. As one of my friends who has since left this place, the honourable Don Willesee- excuse me for using my Christian name but I have to be accurate- said: 'Listen Gordon. The bureaucracy never gives in. When they are beaten on one spot and you are going to another they will think up a third to confuse you '. That is exactly what happened. So there was another magnificent debate on the Camp Hill site. In that debate there were a minority in favour of Capital Hill. I think the difference was three or four. But in the Senate, the votes stood at about the previous vote. The majority of the people in the Parliament voted for the new building to go on Capital Hill. There was a hiatus. Subsequently the Right Honourable John Gorton, having lost some of his grip of the situation, came into the House one night and announced that the Parliament not being able to make up its own mind the Government had decided that the building had to be on Camp Hill. I found it difficult to understand how one could assert that the Parliament had no opinion; the majority of members had voted for Capital Hill. I presumed that because of his long service as a senator and as a member of parties which. make odd decisions about electoral boundaries, he could not count something that had two ballot boxes. The totals of the votes were clearly for Capital Hill. Some people here said more or less: Over our dead bodies'. My friend, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  gave notice that he disagreed with the Government's decision. My friend, the honourable member for Burke, eventually took the matter up by way of a private member's Bill after the Senate had actually produced a Bill. There it lay. In late 1974 or 1975, the Senate having passed the Parliament Bill, the House concurred with it. There it stayed. Now at last we are getting on with the job. 
No doubt the lesson is, first of all, that Executive government should not intervene in such a way as the Gorton Cabinet did. It was obvious that members of that Cabinet were out of touch with the realities and of the feelings of the Parliament. I think that if they had not made that decision the parliamentary building would be well on its way to completion. It may well be that the delay will result in a better building being produced, but I think that we should realise that we are now facing a very difficult task, which as far as I can tell from examining the endeavours of people in other parts of the world nobody has resolved. The parliamentary committee in 1968 went overseas. We visited Kuala Lumpur. An architect designed the Parliament building in Kuala Lumpur before the city had a proper parliament to give any advice- not that the city, in the best traditions of these matters, necessarily would have take notice of parliamentarians. The building looks beautiful on a postcard but is quite irrelevant I should think for parliamentary business. There is a great tower block. How does one take part in parliamentary deliberations if one is 20 floors up in a great tower block 100 yards away from the chamber. In Delhi the position is similar. A beautiful building was erected in the 1920s or maybe even later. It too was irrelevant to the functions of a parliament. It was designed by one of the best architects available. That city did not have a parliament at the time either. The parliament in Rome is crowded in the busy city. It is quite inadequate. Bonn also was putting up a great tower block which would have made life difficult if it were to be used properly. The people of Bonn knew that their parliament was in their city but their hearts were in the Reichstag in Berlin. 
The parliamentary building in London is magnificent. A better piece of architectural landscaping cannot be seen. The Germans thoughtfully knocked it down so that a better building could be erected but the English, being what they were, put the building back up the same way as it wastotally inadequate. Much the same applies in Ottowa and Washington. The real problem, as I think everybody would determine, is that nobody has sat down and examined the actual functions of parliament today. We need a representative building which will be symbolic to the thousands of people who will want to pour through it as if it were a pathway on a public street. It belongs to everybody. We have also to consider the thousand or more people in this case who will work in the building. They will need privacy and immediate access to some of the facilities. That is an architectural challenge of some order. I do not know what the geographical solution will be for functions inside the parliament. It could be said that we would be better off if the two Houses were related to one another vertically rather than horizontally. It is easier these days to move people vertically than horizontally. This is one of the facts of life. 
This brings me to the panel. I do not know many of the members but I notice that none, apart from our friends in the assessment panelthe two members of this Parliament- seems to have parliamentary experience. None of them knows exactly what happens in this place and how to resolve certain issues. If we are to have presidents of Liberal parties or whatever, we should be able to find people whose association with the Parliament has been close enough for them to understand the facts of life. Architects and engineers of that order must be available in State parliaments and this Parliament. We might have to expand the panel. I am very afraid that there is no way in which this coterie of people who have won great distinction in their own areas will understand the requirements of this job. I am not too sure that the people who know something about it will be adequately consulted either. Will the assessment panel call for designs, suggestions or applications from the Department of Housing and Construction? I ask that attention be given to this aspect. I take it that membership of the panels is not fixed for good. Perhaps they do not need to be kept at their present size.  Sir John  Overall brought to this city an intelligence and a professional integrity that none could better. But I am not too sure that he understood exactly what the Parliament was on about when it came to selection of a site.  Mr Tony  Powell, the present Commissioner of the National Capital Development Commission, is a man of understanding too, but are bridge builders, lawyers and so on who have had no association with Parliament itself likely to bring that kind of critical scrutiny to bear. 
I ask that the questions which have been raised this evening be thoroughly examined and that we think of some way of permanent and continuous input from the Parliament. The argument against the site on Capital Hill at the time of the debate was quite persuasive. It was said that the building should be where people congregated and ought not to look as if it dominates. However, I think that the arguments for the Capital Hill site were not only persuasive but almost, in an absolute sense, the right ones. The first thing big public buildings need is space. One of the besetting weaknesses of nearly all public buildings in the world, which require room for many people, is difficulty of access and lack of space. There was a great difference between the amount of space and the amount of access on the lake site, the Camp Hill site and the Capital Hill site. The height of Capital Hill was not considered important. The site was all important. There is no difficulty in erecting a building as high as Capital Hill. Every main road leads to Capital Hill. The site is on a hill. I think the site offers a magnificent challenge to the architectural faculties of Australia. I hope that they rise to the challenge. I hope that the building will be as significant as the Opera House has become. 
I do not think that any constraint whatsoever ought to be placed on costs. This country has nothing to worry about in that area. The Opera House was built from $ 100m raised from raffles, lotteries or some other form of the gambling illness that besets this society. There is no difficulty about raising the money; the difficulty will be in making the building functionally correct and adequate for an expanding parliament which may have 500 members in 30, 40 or 50 years time. I think that the Parliament as it presently works needs more members. 
-My friend the honourable member for Melbourne refers to Government architects participating in the whole project, which is a matter I raised earlier. Nobody should be excluded, least of all members of parliament. I hope that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  who is at the table, will turn his mind to the question of how continual participation will take place in accordance with the requirements of the Act. Honourable members will forgive my cynicism, scepticism or pessimismcall it what they will- for thinking that this is a wonderful place for high aspirations, for democratic parliamentary participation and for very low achievement. 
-The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  paints a picture of a non-union island paradise. 
I have no doubt that the honourable member for Swan will go back to his electorate and speak in that way also. What are we talking about? We say that we do not want the island to be too close to Australia. The residents of the island are alarmed at being too closely integrated into Australia. I can understand the people 's feelings about not wanting to be involved with governments at this level. It is very difficult for us who are here as part of this institution to get any kind of hearing. I am not surprised that the people of Norfolk Island do not expect to get one either. 
Norfolk Island is absolutely dependent upon Australia, not for its finances or anything like that, but because the slightest change in Australian customs laws can destroy the Norfolk Island economy. I recall attending Cabinet meetings at which customs matters were raised and taking care that nothing happened inadvertently to destroy that very fragile economy. If our customs people sneeze they can give Norfolk Island pneumonia. Our customs laws are not the only things that can affect Norfolk Island. If we changed our air fare structure, that could destroy the island's tourist industry. If we changed some of the rules about where our repatriation and other payments can be received, that could destroy the island's economy. It would be interesting to have before us the number of residents of Norfolk Island who receive Australian social security benefits, repatriation benefits, and such like. Not many people in a community of 1,600 need to be involved before these matters become important to that community. 
What we are discussing is not whether the island is to be more closely integrated into or to become a more remote part of the Australian scene, but how we can preserve the rights of the people of Norfolk Island, the environment of Norfolk Island and the security of Norfolk Island and still retain it as part of the Australian scene with the advantages which that bestows. The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  talked about the Nimmo report as if it were a particular threat to the people of Norfolk Island. If we look at the front of the Nimmo report on Norfolk Island we will see who appointed that honourable and worthy gentleman to that task, and it would not take us long, if we sat and thought about it, to see why that was so. 
For a long while Norfolk Island has been in the Australian scene but not of it. It has been the victim of chance legislation and attitudes but has had very little interest taken in it. My predecessor in the post of Minister for the Capital Territory, the Honourable Kep Enderby, visited the island and demonstrated an interest in it. I think that we have to give him principal credit for beginning the restoration scheme. As I became more familiar with the island- it would be presumptuous or conceited of me to say that I knew much at all about it before 1 became the Minister- I could see that here were the problems of any society in a microcosm. The honourable member for Canberra may talk how he will about suggestions that the world is better off if there are no unions and such like, but the fact is that, whether there are 1,600 people, 160,000 people or 16 million people, the problems of this society are just as complex as those of any other. 
Norfolk Island required special consideration. It had been sitting there, remote, idyllic in many respects, and well managed by its own people and its administrators, but- I say this to my friends on Norfolk Island- under constant threat because any chance or inadvertent administrative action by Australia could almost put it out of business. I am just saying to the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  who has been interjecting- I am glad that he is here showing the interest which he normally shows in such a matter; he occasionally learns something from the debates here- that it is very easy for a government such as this to make an inadvertent decision which could ruin the livelihood of countless people. Norfolk Island is therefore fragile economically, socially and environmentally. 

 Sir John Nimmo was charged with the responsibility of answering those questions and finding solutions to those problems. The insecurity felt by the people on Norfolk Island arose from the implication of the predecessor of the present Minister for the Capital Territory that we would lay the report on the table and say: 'There it is; you have the lot'. Although this is a document from which could be selected those things which suited the people in power at any time, I do not support the attacks which have been upon the report. I think it is a very good report. The inquiry was carried out by a very devoted Australian public official, and I think it is a very valuable document. At the time, serious thought was given to other ways in which the inquiry could be undertaken. We considered whether it was worth while asking the Commonwealth Grants Commission to do it, whether a parliamentary committee should be asked to do it, or whether it could be done from departmental resources. It was finally decided that the best way would be to appoint a person such as  Sir John  Nimmo as the Royal Commissioner. 
The honourable member for Canberra talked about our party's politically doctrinaire ideas of government. What does an executive council do if it does not reflect a substantial piece of political doctrine? 1 am sorry to say this to the Minister, but I have a deep feeling that he is not really sympathetic to local ideas for self-government, whether on Norfolk Island, in the Australian 
Capital Territory or anywhere else. I do not think that he has gone nearly far enough. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has explained the Opposition's approach to this matter. We want to see democratic self-government. We have a faith in people. After all, we are here as members of a representative assembly elected by democratic processes. Australia has responsibilities and interests, and its standard quality of life ought to be freely available to all people who are benefited or disadvantaged by the laws and executive authority that stem from this institution. We have created on Norfolk Island an unduly complicated administrative system; but perhaps that can be discussed in the Committee stage. I do not think that we will give ourselves long enough to discuss this matter adequately at this stage. I wish that this debate had taken place some time ago and then been brought into the ring again. 
There are enormous questions in relation to Norfolk Island, small as it and its population are. There is the question of government. Australia is not good at local government. Although there are 900-odd local government authorities in Australia, it is a hotchpotch system- much of it undemocratic, much of it under-serviced and much of it with no chance of being viable. We are not good at finding the answers to the questions posed by Norfolk Island. We are very reluctant to allow people to make major decisions for themselves. What is to be Norfolk Island 's relationship with the mainland? Norfolk Island is, of course, part of the Australian scence; it is part of Australia. Many of the people who live there enlisted in our armed Services during the war. People came from and went to the island and thousands of Australians visit it each year. We have to realise that it was one of the earliest parts of Australian geography. I think that it was only five or six weeks after the First Fleet arrived here that people were sent over to occupy the island. Therefore, it is part of the Australian scene. But tonight we are not accepting full responsibility for the people there. We accept legal responsibility for the piece of real estate, but we are not accepting responsibility for the people. 
Then there is the question of law. It was my regret during my term of office- I guess that the present. Minister for the Capital Territory feels the same way- that the drafting facilities in this country are light on and we are unable to attend to all the legislative needs. Much of the law of Norfolk Island is archaic. It has been inherited from all over the place. We did not have the drafting facilities to make desirable changes to ordinances- changes which, if we had had the machinery available, I am certain the Assembly there would have liked to see. 
What ought to be the size of the island 's population? We have agreed- I think that the island community has accepted it- that about 2,000 people is probably the maximum supportable population for Norfolk Island. That means, of course, that the island community continually has to make tough decisions. As families grow and the population grows, what should they do about it? If sons and daughters leave the island and settle on the mainland for a while, should the community let them come back? This is the sort of decision the people will have to make. I would not want to have to make that sort of decision. In many respects it is probably more heart-rending than the decisions that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has to make about families who have settled here, have had children born here, and then, having exceeded their right of residency, are deported. This will be a very difficult decision for a community such as that on the island to make. Then, the question is about the economy, the trade. Any interference with their trade will put them out of business. I would be the last to allow that to happen if I could prevent it. While I am out of sympathy with the Minister's political views on these matters, I would guess that his views and mine- as well as those of all honourable members, I suspect- would be that we must protect that part of Norfolk Island 's interest in the Australian scene. 
The same applies for tourism. Of course, it is one of those places where it is necessary to have a fairly restricted view of the tourist trade. What does one do about the airfield? One of the problems we faced was how to establish an air service to Norfolk Island which is useful, economic and speedy. It was an interesting reflection upon the airline construction industry of the world that there was no adequate replacement for the DC4 aeroplane. Nowhere was there a suitable aeroplane. Perhaps aeroplanes are now coming onto the market which can comply with Australian regulations and can fly to Norfolk Island, find the place fog bound- it does not need to be a very big cloud to put it out of sight- and still have enough fuel in reserve to continue to New Caledonia, 400 miles away, or to Auckland, which is 600 miles away. These are continuous problems. They will only be resolved from the Australian end. 
Of course, Norfolk Island may well make a decision to become a part of somebody else's scene. I would not advise it. Little as I think of the capacity of this Government to govern people properly, who would want to live under the New Zealand Government? It is worse. That is about the only compliment I will pay this Government. We have these problems on our hands. What about the question of land? Of course, the first settlers from Pitcairn were granted the land. I looked up the title deeds and saw that they were granted in perpetuity for a peppercorn rent. Then the land started to be cut up. It is a most interesting study to look at the actual land structure- not so much the land forms but the structure of land ownership. There was one piece of land which was 38 feet wide and 1,100 feet long. Trying to rearrange subdivisions of the land was an enormously complicated social question. Norfolk Island has to depend on the mainland for communications in many ways. There are also the matters of social security, education and health. 
I want to pay a compliment to the way in which that island has managed its own affairs. There is very little taxation. If honourable members refer to the reports they will find that philately, customs duty and the sale of liquor are the principal income earners. There was a surplus in 1975, and there is still a surplus. The Australian grant was originally, in 1975, $126,000. In the last report it still was. Of course, they are not the only funds expended on Norfolk Island by Australia. There was also the penny post. Do they still have that or has the Government made them change it? So, it was a remarkable administrative system. It maintained its own school, which was probably the only independent school in Australia. It received funds from no external source. What does one do with the children once they have reached, say, fourth form or tenth year? Where do they go; how are they supported? We put up appeals amongst ourselves to see if isolated children's funds and things such as that should be available. 
I think it is unduly mean to consider social security as being available only to people who happen to be inside Australia's taxation system. I would say to my friends in Norfolk Island that I think they would be better off paying Australian income tax under a zonal allowance. Their incomes are not that great. I think they would have many more benefits out of it than they would have disadvantages. I do not think Australia ought to have a policy that a person is only an Australian if he pays taxes. That is not the way we treat people on the mainland. I think it is a materialistic concept which we ought not suffer. I think the Norfolk Island situation will be always under threat- not external, physical threat but, simply, administrative arrangements around the world could change it substantially. Therefore, I think the questions before the House and the answers put from this side of the House ought to be given long and serious consideration. 
I want to see the people of Norfolk Island making the basic decisions for themselves, by themselves. I can see no reason why the general executive authority of the island should not lie substantially with them. I do not agree with the reserve powers that lie here with the GovernorGeneral in Council. I recognise that in any part of Australia, and in regard to anybody who is subject to the Australian law, there has to be something of that order. We will have to think of some new protective devices in that regard. I hope that the future of Norfolk Island is substantially secured as a result of the Parliament's deliberations here. If a major piece of legislation has been brought into this Parliament and has stirred the interest of the honourable members, at least a few more protective glances will be thrown in its direction. I hope that the people of Norfolk Island will understand that both sides of this Parliament have an attitude to the island that means the preservation of its advantages and- from the point of view of the Opposition, anyhow- incorporation into Australia for the advantages of being Australian. I think it ought to be fundamental to our political system that anybody who is the subject of Australian law has the right to take a part in the election of the law makers. 
If the people of the island do not wish to become involved with us substantially in the way in which the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  seemed to see it- I can understand that being made a victim of the representation of the seat of Canberra could be a matter of concern to some people- then perhaps we could allow them to enrol voluntarily for the Australian system. Of course, they would still have to be a part of some electorate for the purpose of convenience. I do not see any great difficulties about it. I hope that we bring to these deliberations a little more consideration of the realities of the human beings at the other end of it. My two years' association with the island were happy ones for myself and I appreciated the courtesy and the hospitality of the people on the island. I always received a fillip to my imagination on arriving at the island. 
For many years- from 1825 to 1855- its background and history was dreadful in the extreme. No one should be able to step ashore on the island and see the works that have gone on in the past without having a great deal of respect for our forebears. When one looks at some of the buildings that were built and examines the plans of buildings that were there, as well as those which were projected, one should receive inspiration from the aspirations of people who, 12,000 miles from home, under extraordinary difficulties, built forever and built substantially. I think there is a lesson to a lot of us in what the Royal Engineers, the British Army and the rest of them did and set out to do, and in the way in which they went about doing things a century and a half ago. One of the mysteries of life is why, the more substantially established we become, the more affluent we become, the more difficult it is to embark upon such similar public works. 
-My friend from Canberra, for heaven's sake! We could get a parrot to repeat that, but a parrot is an intelligent bird and would not be bothered. The facts are that our problem is not the unions; we have you. 
I congratulate the right honourable gentleman on choosing to celebrate May Day by reassembling the Australian Parliament. I hope that the behaviour of the House will be appropriate to the celebration of such an event and not as it is usually.  Mr Speaker,  I seek indulgence to correct some newspaper reports that I am proposing to retire. I assure the House, that I do not intend to retire, because I have noticed a terrible anxiety, particularly among people opposite, that I may not come back on 1 May. Of course, anybody in my age group, or even one starting here at 20 years of age, should look at the future and say: 'Well, I have got 30 seconds or 30 years '. However, I propose to see out this term in accordance with the contract that I have undertaken with the people of Wills to serve them as well as I may. 
During this recess  Mr Speaker  may care to examine the efficiency of the Press Gallery in relation to the way that it reports this Parliament One would have thought that a simple matter such as the proposed retirement of a member could have been checked by asking him about it. The  Australian Financial Review  did not do that, and I presume that most of its reporting of this Parliament is of the same order. There is perhaps one circumstance in which I would retire from Parliament. If  Her  Majesty chose to offer me the position of Governor-General, I could remove 26 problems from the Australian scene rapidly- in about 10 minutes- and for that purpose I might well undertake that post. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, earlier this morning I made a personal explanation with reference to news reports that I was retiring. I mentioned the fact that if I were made Governor-General I would remove the 26 problems in 10 minutes. I have counted them up and there are now 27, but two of them count as only half each! 
-This is rather an historic occasion. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  has announced the launching of what I hope will be the most significant architectural exercise that has been undertaken in Australia. I hope that the architects who enter designs in the competition will have the vision necessary to produce the kind of building we want. I hope that in the final assessment of designs consideration will be given to the changing nature of the parliament and that we will manage to avoid all the difficulties and mistakes which have been suffered by everyone else, throughout history and throughout the world, who has designed houses of parliament. I hope that the building will represent something of the Australian spirit, as have some of the more significant works of art in Australia, both pictorial and written in verse and prose. This represents one of the greatest opportunities that the architects of Australia have ever been offered. 
There has been a keenly fought battle over where the new parliament house should be built. I recall that at the beginning of the debate on the issue some opposition to Capital Hill as a prospective site was expressed because it posed architectural difficulties. This was so despite the fact that some of the greatest buildings in history- whether they be the structures on the Acropolis in Athens or others in various places in the world- have been built on similar sites. I think we are offering the architectural profession of Australia an opportunity to use one of the best sites possible for a public building. It is one of the most spacious sites possible, with possibly one of the best outlooks available anywhere for a public building of this nature. I hope that the ultimate design takes into account the needs of a representative government, being as important a part of society as it is, determining how society should operate. 
I say this tonight in the hope that architects who propose to submit a design will read the  Hansard  record of this debate and will take note of the fact that the building of the new parliament house is not just an architectural exercise. It is a very significant political and social exercise and is not something to be executed merely on the drawing boards. I hope that the architects will come and look around this place and talk to members of parliament about their thoughts on the matter. I hope that the building which will result will be worthy of the enterprise upon which we have embarked. 
I would like to attend briefly to the actual form of government as it is demonstrated in clauses 1 to 22. 1 take it they are the clauses with which we are concerned at the moment. The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott),  in his earlier remarks, implied that the Executive Council was an essential feature of such a form of government. I suppose Australia has seven executive councils, counting our own. On the other hand, there are over 900 local government authorities- some of them very big. The metropolitan cities of Australia are huge compared with many States of the world. The municipalities of country areas and some of the provincial cities have very large populations. Some of the country municipalities are very extensive in both population and area. They administer great sums of money and large areas of country. They do not operate this way. In fact, when one joins a municipality one becomes an executive member. This applies to most municipalities in Victoria. So councils have nine, 12 or 15 members. I think there is the odd council with a few more than that. They operate in the same way as a board of directors, a cabinet or anything of the sort. 
I think the Executive Council is an unecessary aberration in this situation. I am sure that democracy is not served by the creation of inner circles. I regard it as an optional extra which, if I were given the option, I would discard. That is the first point I wish to make. The other point is in regard to the general question of selfgovernment. I think it is a phoney term inside a federal system. What part of Australia has selfgovernment? Some time ago honourable members talked very glibly about selfgovernment for the Northern Territory. Earlier, the Minister implied that if people paid taxes and received social security payments then they were not in the field of self-government; they were not looking after themselves. Again, that is nonsense. There is nobody inside the whole of Australia who has self-government if we mean total, absolute, unqualified autonomy or independence. I make passing reference to the powers of veto of the Governor-General. That means that there is no self-government. The  right to  withhold assent for six months removes all vestige of selfgovernment. Therefore, it is a term which ought not be used in this context. 
What this Parliament is attempting to find for Norfolk Island is an area of government in which the people of Norfolk Island are able to administer the greatest possible areas of their own affairs to the advantage of the people of Norfolk Island, to the preservation of their standard of living and the quality of life as they see it, and add to it the advantages of being a part of the Austraiian scene. There has been some play on the use of the social security system. I understand that at present there are 36 people on Norfolk Island who are drawing social security pensions and there are 1 1 7 people drawing repatriation or veterans ' affairs pensions of some type. That is a fair number of people in such a small community. I suspect that as time goes by more Norfolk Islanders will spend their working lives on the mainland- as they must because Norfolk Island is not big enough to contain the population- and then return to Norfolk Island and, of course, draw Australian social security pensions. 
The last thing one would want to do is damage the social security of the island. I refer to its security not in the monetary sense but in the social sense. We have to find a formula which supplies to the people of Norfolk Island the same security, standard of living and advantages as the rest of the people on this continent and its outlying islands receive and still preserves the rights as the islanders have had them and as we hope to see them developed. That ought not be beyond the wit of man. Of course, the British have had some odd solutions to these problems in the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. I do not see any great difficulty. Perhaps this is a piece of legislation that should have been tossed to one of the legislation committees so the members of that committee could have brought a multitude of minds to bear on the problem. After all, what is the difference between the views of myself and the Minister on this matter? We both say our objectives are the same. I would say his solution is unduly conservative and rather authoritarian. What is the Governor-General? In this general context, the Governor-General is the Minister. I wish he would give away this comparison about self-government and try to examine it more thoroughly in view of what it is ali about. 
I suppose we can continue to give the people of Norfolk Island the assurance that we are all seeking the same objective. I think the introduction of an Executive Council into a small body such as this for the government of a small area is a disbelief in the ability of groups of people to come together for the solution of executive problems, which is not held out by our own experience. There are 12 or 13 members of the current Cabinet; there were 27 in the Labor Cabinet. I think there are about 20 in the New South Wales Cabinet. They sit around and make executive decisions. There is no reason why the Executive Council should not be able to make executive decisions or form some sub-committees or anything of that sort. I think the Executive Council, as it is interpreted here, is not really a part of the Westminster system or anything else. The executive councils- the Privy Councils as they were called and the committees of the Privy Councils as they were instituted during the reign of Charles II- were a way in which he was able to avoid responsibility and pass it off to his friends while he got on with the serious business of enjoying the merry life. Many of these are historical solutions to other problems which have no relevance to Norfolk Island. 
-I want to express my sorrow at the passing of Frank Stewart and offer my condolences to his family. There are several things that I want to say arising out of remarks that have already been made, in particular those made by the honourable Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  about the tensions, struggles and strife which were inherent on our side of the Parliament in 1955 when I first came here. It is almost impossible to believe what the tensions were at a time such as that. When I came into this Parliament Frank Stewart was one of those who was on the other side of the Caucus, in a minority which was regarded with a great deal of resentment by the rest of the older members of the Caucus. Throughout that time he stood steadfast to his political principles and to those things in which he believed. I think that there cannot be any better tribute to him than to acknowledge the fact that no matter what pressures came from outside from other forces, no matter what cultural or other pressures were upon him, he stood steadfast through it all. 
Eventually, of course, he became a member of the Labor Cabinet. I think he sat on the front bench in 1969. If I remember rightly, in the ballot in which he gained that position, I was the runner-up. Frank Stewart and I have more often been runners-up in ballots in this Parliament and our Party than we have been victors. Occasionally, there are also victories. It is one of the penalties of our political life that we spend most of our time talking to influence. It is not often given to us to leave something constructive on the ground, as it were. During our term of office Frank was Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Scattered around this country there must be hundreds of projects that would not be there if Frank had not been the Minister and if we had not had a Minister in charge of those activities. I suppose that his most important memorial, if we can put it that way, is the Bruce Stadium in this city. The matter was raised with me as Minister for the Capital Territory and we made a joint project of it, but I must say that the initiative was his. 
Honourable members may recall that at various times in the government of this country it comes to pass that blue pencils are put through new expenditure. This was one project that was ready for the blue pencil. It was Frank's steadfastness, I hope with my support, that kept it on the agenda, and it is now out there in this city for the world to enjoy as an international arena. Over the years that I have been in this Parliament- I have spent a third of my life in this auditorium- a third of my life has been spent in association with Frank Stewart. We travelled together, we agreed together, we disagreed and still stayed together. Honourable members may guess that when we disagreed we really disagreed. Frank Stewart has left a mark on this nation because of his integrity and because of positive and physical accomplishments which it is not always given to many of us to achieve. I place on record my deep sorrow at his passing and at the loss of a man at his age. He was years younger than I am and he was a man of great activity who was always able to give what was needed to his opponents, to give support to his friends, and to take it as it was given out to him, that is like a gentleman and a proper soldier as he always was. him  Mr GARLAND  (Curtin-Minister for Special Trade Representations)- I would like to add a word to what has been well said. I got to know Frank Stewart fairly well only during recent years, but I think it is worth placing on record that when the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure was established he was chosen by his colleagues to be  Deputy Chairman.  He was one of those people who did his best, with success, to establish the activities of that Committee on a bipartisan basis in its efforts to scrutinise parliamentary expenditure. He was, I found, always very well briefed and this has some relationship to comments made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  Frank Stewart was concerned to find the central and main issues before the Committee and he stuck to those issues. In the circumstances I think that needs to be mentioned to the House and I offer my condolences to his family. 
I wish to protest at the way in which the business of the House is being conducted. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
This has been one of the finest examples- 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion- 
1 ) that the gagging of the debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1978-79 on 3 May 1979 was for political purposes in relation to the Victorian State elections and was, in effect, an instance of political censorship in the Parliament on behalf of a political party or parties; 
that immediate consideration should be given by the House to the establishment of a Procedure Committee as proposed by the honourable member for Corio in his General Business notice; and 
that Standing Order 93 relating to the closure of the question and Standing Order 94 relating to the closure of a member should receive the immediate consideration of the Committee with a view to granting a discretionary power to the Chair as to whether or not those questions should be put. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the moving of a motion to establish a House Procedure Committee in accordance with General Business Notice No. 45. 
We have reached the stage in this Parliament where the Standing Orders mean nothing. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  is sabotaging and subverting every principle of parliamentary government. We have turned it not into a forum for the honourable members of this side of the House; we have turned it into a farce-provoking procedure for the honourable member for Bendigo. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the honourable member for Wills be not further heard. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion ( by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Clause 4, read in conjunction with clause 7, goes to the heart of the matter of the way in which the various incomes will be assessed for taxation purposes. I think it is worthwhile considering what we are really about. My friend the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said a while ago that it is not money that matters. Apparently money does not mean anything in this situation. It is certainly true that the Aboriginal situation will not be solved by any amount of money, but money is a big help and one cannot get anywhere without it. This piece of legislation is a most miserable attempt to withdraw from the Aboriginal people the results of many years of campaigning for their own land. The honourable member for Parramatta talked earlier about taxation. 
-That is right, the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr - Ruddock).  They changed the name; Parramatta was too hard for him to spell. The honourable member for Dundas raised the point that we all had to pay taxation and therefore in this situation taxation ought to be paid. Surely that is uniformity carried to the point of injustice. It is ludicrous to consider this payment as being in the same category as payments received by anybody else. For whose land is it? Whose minerals are they? For two centuries the people of Australia have deprived the Aboriginal people of a fair place in this society, and I would be the first to admit that it is very difficult to lay the blame on anybody in particular. It has been a most difficult social and economic problem. But over the last 20 years there has been a great advance in the attitude of the Australian people towards the rights of the Aboriginal people. By about 1976 I thought the battle had been won, but we have at last realised that there are some things that we have to do to make recompense for our actions of the last two centuries. That realisation could not be sheeted home to any government in particular, but over the last three years or so there has been a constant chiselling of the progress of the Aboriginal people and of the rights that have been established for them. The honourable members opposite called out by way of interjection what they thought was happening in various parts of Australia. 
I just remind honourable members of four issues involving the lands and the rights of the Aboriginal people. Prior to 1975 steps were taken to rehabilitate the people from Wyndham in the northern part of Western Australia and to let them go back to their land. I refer to the Forrest River and the Oombulgurri people. During that period the land rights legislation was established! Its purpose was to give permanent rights to the Aborigines and to establish absolute, unqualified obligations on the part of the Australian people. The legislation encompassed such places as Oenpelli and Groote Eylandt in Arnhem Land and Aurukun on Cape York. It also established the rights of the Torres Strait Island people. 
In the last 12 months or so we have seen a total unsettling of that situation. Diamonds have been discovered in the north-west part of the Kimberley Ranges, and so there has been a move to unsettle and to take away the rights of the Oombulgurri people in particular. They are the people who are likely to be affected. Uranium is to be found where the Oenpelli people have settled in Arnhem Land. Of course, bauxite is in the land on which the Yirrkala people are living. There is bauxite also where the Aurukun people have settled. Our relations with the Papua New Guineans have to be considered where the Torres Strait Islanders are concerned. Whenever some other interest comes to the fore, the Aboriginal people are pushed aside. 
In this instance we are taking the attitude that because royalties have been granted- the word royalties' has been used but it is simply another word for the reparation, the recompense or the compensation they are being paid to make them equal to the rest of the people of Australia- they ought to pay tax upon them. What a miserable and befuddled piece of thinking. Of course, they ought to be doing nothing of the sort. We should be working out some satisfactory payment to the Aboriginal people, if that is possible, as compensation for the trespass upon their land. We should then attempt to ensure that the Aboriginal people get their money without any let or hindrance. 
What are we dong? We have no satisfactory figures before us which indicate how much money the Aboriginal people will receive. Honourable members opposite suggest that the Aborigines are going to be rolling in wealth. What utter rubbish. It would be worth while looking for a moment at the situation in Arnhem Land. It covers an area of 31,000 square miles and is inhabited by about 4,000 to 5,000 Aboriginal people. How much money has been spent on capital works and how much has been provided for the recurrent expenses of that group of people compared with the amounts provided for the average Australian town? Let us look at what it costs to establish an Australian town. It costs $7,000 to $8,000 just to prepare a block of land in this city and that is probably done in the most efficient and economic way in this country. It will cost anything up to $2m to put up a satisfactory modern high school. It costs thousands of dollars a mile to put down a decent road. 
Those honourable members opposite who think that we have gone too far should take a look at a Northern Territory community. I am not blaming anybody in particular for that situation. During the Labor Party's term in office, it did the best it could to launch projects. One would have to admit, as has the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  that the difficulty of finding satisfactory people to work in the field was immense. But nobody can say that those people in the Northern Territory live at the same standard with the same services as those applying to the rest of us. This is a miserable piece of legislation unbecoming of even this Government or this Parliament. 
Because the Aboriginal people are to receive, say, a million dollars in some sort of payment for the trespass upon their land and the threat to their social life and their security which flows from having mining communities next door, we intend to take back some portion of it- perhaps $100,000- to pay into Consolidated Revenue. I think that is a miserable attitude indeed. There is no possible justification for this legislation as far as the Aboriginal people are concerned. I suggest to honourable members opposite, many of whom have had successful business careers and many of whom when faced with questions of justice and injustice fall on the side of justice, that they should take away and examine very thoroughly this legislation to see what it really means to the people involved in terms of dollars and cents. 
How should we determine the amount of compensation? For instance, nobody knows how much wealth has been garned from the bauxite at Yirrkala. Nobody knows how much the company involved in that operation has received. Nobody knows whether we can disentangle how much the aluminium people have made out of places such as Weipa. We do not know the facts of this case. We are toying with a set of figures which does not necessarily have relevance to the case at all. Instead of attacking my colleague the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  for what he said, honourable members opposite should take seriously what he said and read very carefully what has been done. Honourable members opposite should examine their consciences closely and ask themselves whether what we are doing here tonight is not unjust, inequitable, and unfair, and whether it is a total and improper use of the power of this Parliament to take away from the most dispossessed and disadvantaged people of Australia something they are at last stalling to get. 
-Clause 7, read in conjunction with clause 4 and a few other-- 
When I am dealing with slow learners I have to be repetitive. I am going to assume that particular charm tonight and deal with some of the matters raised which seem to be misunderstood. I will take up the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  about the difference between the situation of  Mr Lang  Hancock and that of the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. Let us consider a particular group of people in the Northern Territory, those who live in Arnhem Land. Arnhem Land has been a reserve since, I think, about 1931. Most of us considered that that land was inviolate; that it had been set aside by promulgation for the Aboriginal people and would remain that way. On the other hand,  Mr Lang  Hancock pegged out some sort of mining leases under Western Australian legislation. By some mysterious alchemy of law he has an absolute right over that land, as my friend from Fremantle said. But the Aboriginal people, having only lived in the area for anything between 20,000 to 30,000 years, so far have not managed to establish a proper claim to it. 
What kind of society do we operate when there are special rights for miners? My friends opposite often say that in these circumstances you cannot treat Aboriginal people differently from the rest of the community. Those of us who have a piece of land somewhere on this continent do not own the mineral rights, although I understand that in parts of New South Wales they do. Honourable members opposite are saying that Aboriginal people must not have special rights. However, in this country miners do have special rights. In clause 7 mining interests, mining rights and mining are defined in the traditional terms of the miners of Australia whose rights transcend those of anybody else, even those who have lived here for countless thousands of years and for whom the land is something spiritual and not proprietary. That is what we are debating today. As far as I can see the battle about the absolute right of the Aboriginal people to say that for the time being one must not mine their land has been lost. As I understand the situation, as outlined by my friend the honourable member for Fremantle,  Mr Hancock  was able to say: 'We will put that aside and leave it there '. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  referred earlier to the Magellan rights about some seven or 10 miles from Hermannsburg. That company discovered gas there. It sealed its gas discovery and it has stayed sealed, apparently inviolate against all the law that one could muster. I am fairly confident that if we had exercised our constitutional rights to take it over under just terms we could have done so. Unfortunately I was not in the Aboriginal Affairs portfolio long enough actually to get round to that. There we have an example of a corporate body made up of people who, one might say, are completely nameless under the provisions of our laws and who were able to seal the minerals they found against use by anybody until they find the appropriate time to mine them. On the other hand the Aboriginal people have no rights whatsoever. It is useless to point to rights any more. The land rights legislation has been fought over for so long. Both sides of the chamber and committees have spent hours of traumatic debate in consideration of it. Despite that the Aboriginal people have not been given one ounce of protection because one will always be able to find some way around it. This legislation is part of the system of getting around those things which have been already established. 
I appeal to honourable members opposite, particularly those who have had a good deal of experience in law and accountancy, to examine what is going on and to find out why this legislation is going ahead. In my judgment it ought not to go ahead. In my judgment the mining of uranium at Oenpelli and even the mining of some of the bauxite deposits ought not to go ahead. But if it goes ahead, what is a fair return? How do we even determine what the companies make out of this mining? If we are to charge something for it why do we not charge so much a tonne instead of having royalties that are based on a percentage of the profits that can be discovered out of the intricacies of modern accounting practice? I hope that when this legislation gets to the other place it will be given even closer examination. Tonight we are taking back from the Aboriginal people a small proportion of the miserable portion they will get out of the mining. I should think that all the royalties and all the money which have been paid to the 30,000 to 40,000 Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory would not amount to what  Mr Lang  Hancock, for instance, has made out of his rights. So where are our standards and what sort of attitudes do we really have? 
Three or four things with which honourable members opposite might not be familiar are mentioned in the legislation. An Aboriginal land council established by or under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 is to become a distributing body. What is an Aboriginal land council? In early 1973  Mr Justice  Woodward was appointed to examine the land situation of the Aboriginal people of Australia and to make a recommendation. He recommended that land councils be established. I think the first ones were appointed in August 1973 or thereabouts. Later- by the time all laws had been drafted it was 1976- the councils were given the sanction of statute. They are now statutory bodies operating for the Aboriginal people to protect and to develop the interests of Aboriginal people. They are not mystical bodies in the hands of mischief makers or stirrers from the south or anything like that. They are simply bodies of Aboriginal people charged with the responsibility of protecting their own people's rights. Aboriginal associations operate in a similar way. 
I hope that those honourable members who have not been here long enough to remember all the arguments that were put in this place about this matter will take time off to study some of the history of and battles about the land rights situation. I believe that it would be worth while for them to take a look at the situation at Yirrkala. The Aboriginal people at Yirrkala were among the first victims of what is referred to on page 4 of the Bill as a miner's right or mining interest. Honourable members should read the debates that took place on this subject. The people of Yirrkala live in the far north-east corner of Arnhem Land. This area is one of the more desirable parts of the Northern Territory. Bauxite was discovered on their property and, without much regard at all for their welfare, agreements were made with a mining company to mine it. 
Legal battles took place in respect of the mining. I took a case in the Darwin court in 1963 after I found in one of the Northern Territory newspapers a mining warden's notice which said that objections could be lodged in the mining warden's court. I did that. I suppose that out of that action grew the first battle in the courts about land rights. A piquant note came into the matter when a committee was established by this Parliament to examine the grievances of the people of Yirrkala and I was appointed by my party to be a member of the committee. The Government took steps to try to get me ofT it. A former Governor-General, a man of great distinction in this country, was the responsible Minister at the time. The Government intended to remove me from the committee. Unfortunately at that time honourable members opposite had the advantage of only one over us in the House and they were not sure that they would all be available to make sure that I was removed. They appealed to my better nature to get off the committee. However, I thought that my better nature demanded that I stay on it. But, as I have said, it has been a long battle which has involved many people on both sides of the chamber. 
I still think that this piece of legislation is a part of the surrender of those things that so many people on both sides of both Houses of this Parliament and outside it, certainly many Aboriginal people, have given so much to try to secure. I think that this piece of taxation is nearly as miserable a piece of pettifoggery and accountancy attitudes that I have come across in my 24 or 25 years as a member of this chamber. 
-I would just like to point out to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that the time allocated is inadequate. 

 Government members interjecting- 

I support the words of my friend the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  I will sit down in time for my friend the honourable member for 
Holt  (Mr Yates)  to say a word or two, a courtesy not always accorded to us on this side of the House, although I doubt that the honourable member for Holt is a participant in that kind of discourteous behaviour. I would like to take the minds of honourable members in this House to the place I mentioned earlier Yirrkala, in Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory. I am not sure how much money has been paid in royalties so far to the Aboriginal people in that area, but I have an idea that it is perhaps $1.2m over the 16 years or so since mining began. I do not know exactly what has been given to, granted to or taken from the Aboriginal people in that area. 
Melville Bay is the lease area around which bauxite and other mining ventures have taken place. In that area I think some 56 square miles of land have been excised from Aboriginal land. Fifty six square miles is a lot of land. This land is precious to the Aboriginal people. They have a spiritual attachment to it. As I said earlier, they do not have a proprietary attachment. This land means everything to them in their lifestyle, their social organisation, their belief in the future and their whole faith in the way in which the world works. We have taken all this from them. A foreign owned mining company has been ravaging the country and no matter how hard it tries it cannot restore the land to its original state. No matter how hard it tries it cannot restore the social organisation of the Aboriginal people which has been destroyed by the mining operation. So, a large area of real estate has been taken away from the Aboriginal people for what is a pretty miserable sum. 
When Canberra was first developed, one land owner with 10,000 acres claimed $35m for his land that was required for development. He did not get it, but he did his best to get it and was eventually paid a sum approximately two times greater than the Aboriginal people at Yirrkala have been paid for their 56 square miles. If honourable members took some time otT, went to Melville Bay and had a look at the mining town on the one hand and the Aboriginal town which is some 1 2 miles or 1 5 miles away on the other hand, they would see that the mining town is modern, well founded with properly made roads, well built schools and other facilities that you would expect. Down the road the original proprietors- in effect, the legal and moral proprietors- the Aboriginal people, live in a miserable situation indeed, at a much lower standard than the general population of this country. As I said earlier, I propose to sit down and let my friend the honourable member for Holt say a few words. I just hope that at some time in this place we can gain from the people opposite the courtesy we will never gain by any means other than example- certainly not by appeals to their better nature. 
-The Prime Minister has given us a lengthy resume of his discussions on trade and so on with the  President  of the Philippines, but he skirted around the Indonesian aggression against Timor. Did the Prime Minister receive any guarantee from the Government of Indonesia that it would take action to ameliorate the sufferings of the people of Timor, make Timor a free country and give the people the freedom of choice that they had before they were improperly incorporated into Indonesia? 
-Unfortunately I do not have time to answer all the theoretical premises upon which the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  has made his learned dissertation tonight. But I hope that if we are to have 10 such speeches tonight, we do not get 10 fourth form essays in economics. I would have been much more impressed with the honourable member's speech if, instead of saying categorically that the size of the deficit would do this to the inflation rate or that the size of the increase in the money supply would do that to the inflation rate, he had produced a document setting out the proof of it by comparing countries. 

 Government members interjecting- 


 -Mr Deputy Speaker, perhaps I had better speak to you because government members do not choose to listen. As I see it from an examination of the figures, there is a very great difference in the relationship between the growth in the money supply from country to country in relation to the gross domestic product and the actual money supply itself in relation to the trading position. The same applies to deficits. What does the honourable member mean by deficit'? As I understand it from looking at the figures, this year the Government's current expenditure will be about $25,500m and its revenue will be about $26,000m so that on current account there will be a surplus of about $500m. 
The other $2,000m or $3,000m or whatever mess the Government has made of the situation is to meet the capital commitment of the country. I am with the honourable member, if I gather correctly what he said at the beginning of his speech, that we ought to be looking at methods of getting that money other than from taxation. That is the Middle Ages approach to the economic system and it will not get us anywhere. 
I rose tonight really to speak about a matter that has come to my notice as a result of a recent safari, one might say, that I made to Rhodesia. I am not making a report on that tonight; I am just making a retort. A Nigerian High Commission news release of 3 May 1979, issued in the Australian Capital Territory and entitled 'Nigeria Government Statement on the April 20th Election in Zimbabwe' came into my possession. I will not read it all, but I will read some of it: 
The Federal Military Government has no desire to dignify the sham elections that have just taken place in Zimbabwe with even a statement of condemnation. 
The elections, even if they were free and fair, which they were not, failed to meet the objective criteria established by Security Council resolutions . . . The elaborately contrived confidence tricks that characterised the elections were a deserving insult to the intelligence of those international meddlers and the institutions which sent them . . . 
I regard that as an insulting remark by the Nigerian High Commission to the members of this Parliament who went to Rhodesia to make an objective survey of the situation. Since returning to Australia we have made no statement about whether we should or should not recognise Rhodesia or whether we should or should not lift sanctions. I suggest that honourable members get hold of this document and read it because it is simply a diatribe against the whole system. It bears very little relationship to the facts and it is issued by the high commission of a government that has not held an election for at least 13 or 14 years. Under its military government, Nigeria has suffered disastrous civil wars. There has been  no freedom in the country. Its people would not know what an election was. I wish Nigeria well in its proposed elections in October of this year, but I hope that the Nigerian High Commission will understand what I am saying. I intend to ensure that, as far as possible, the people of Australia understand what the Commission has said about the representatives of this Parliament who visited Rhodesia. 
Later in this diatribe one notes that threats are made against any country which chooses to lift sanctions or accord recognition. I do not think international relations will prosper while that attitude is adopted by one of the significant countries of Africa- indeed, its largest country- a member of the Security Council, and one upon which we rely to prevent wars. The great difficulty with the Security Council at the moment is that those countries which are supposed to be preventing war are sponsoring it. Britain and America are by their attitude sponsoring the Patriotic Front and the Chinese and the Russians are supplying it with arms. If tonight the Rhodesian forces were overwhelmed by Cuban and Libyan infantry, if Salisbury were invested and its people slaughtered, other countries would rush in and recognise the new government tomorrow. What kind of morality is that? That is the challenge that faces us, and faces the whole world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Parliament goes through this operation every so often. It is of enormous inconvenience to everybody associated with the Parliament when arrangements are made at such late notice. It is not just honourable members who are concerned; we have to consider the staff, the arrangements of the airline system and everything else. I suggest to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that it might not be too late in the day- after all, the Parliament is only 79 years old- for us to start to examine the operations of the Parliament in a thorough way and to arrive at some conclusion as to the actual hours and days of meeting which are necessary to carry out the business of the Parliament. Perhaps it may be appropriate at this stage to have a general conference of the standing orders committees of both Houses of Parliament to undertake a work study on what the Parliament is about. 
In the 24 years or so since I was elected to Parliament, it has almost always happened that nobody has been able to predict the end of the session. Perhaps that is fair enough. Over the last eight or 10 years it has been almost consistent behaviour to make new arrangements to try to fit things in at the last moment. This is totally inadequate for debating and handling the business of the nation. We will not get any solution unless we are prepared to fake some time off to sit down and examine the arrangements. It seems to me that we just cannot fit the business of this Parliament into the 70-odd days it meets each year. We ought not to try to do so. We ought to be able to adjust the program so that we can condense 100 to 120 days sitting into some 20 to 25 weeks during the year and we all know what we are on about. We should get on with it. I make this suggestion to the Leader of the House who may be able to listen and to talk to us. There is no point talking to the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  because he makes more errors than the Leader of the House. We should have a meeting of members from both Houses of Parliament to try to come to some real solution to this problem. 
-The approach of the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  to this question was not all that exhilarating. But I must say that the statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has created a bonanza for the jargon spinners. I do not think that in my whole career in this place I have listened to more nonsense than that which came from some of the distinguished speakers on the other side, particularly the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  It is only the long and close relationship that I have had with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  which prevents me from putting him in the same class. The honourable member for Barker seems to be obsessed with percentages. It does not really matter what is happening to the people at the end of the line. If the rate which used to go up 8 per cent has gone up by only 6 per cent it does not matter even though there are probably more people out of work, more people on the poverty line and real wages have gone down. We are all obsessed with pieces of arithmetic and we do not seem to be concerned at all about what is happening to the nation or to the people comprising it. 
The honourable member for Barker talked about taxation and its details. I think we live in a matter of fact, commonsense country in which if a government can give satisfactory reasons to the public for the need to raise money the people will front up and pay. I am pretty confident from my experience in this country and what I know of the people that that is the general case. If governments are not able to explain satisfactorily to the people of Australia what is being done for education, for the Aboriginal people and in the area of health and the people reject our proposals then I suppose we would have to mend our ways. But no one can tell me that there is anybody in this country who thinks there is any advantage to this nation by reducing the quality and the quantity of our health services, by putting a stopper on the advancement of educational programs or by reducing the misery of the Aboriginal people even further. I do not believe that is the Australian attitude at all. I am appealing here tonight for people to apply themselves more thoroughly to the mythology expressed by the economic spokesmen of the other side and by some outside this place, by the Press and by the world academics. People should start to apply themselves to the fact that this is 1979 and that the mysticism of the past which passes for economic theory will not work. 
First of all there have been great social and economic changes in the whole of the world and particularly in this country. Australia is different in so many ways from other countries. The difference between the top salaries paid in Australia and the lower wages in Australia is less than in most countries. I think the difference is probably the least in the world and I like it that way. I am not working towards a country with greater inequalities where some people have enormous wealth and some are on the bread line. I think that most Australians feel the way I do. I want to look at the whole scene to see how far we are getting towards that objective. I am afraid that the policies of honourable members opposite are reversing that trend. 
There is a certain amount of mythology around as regards 1975 and what Labor in government is alleged to have done to the Australian economy. I refer to what the  Deputy  Prime Minister had to say on this matter. He used these very terms 'wild expenditure' and 'bankruptcy'. What utter rot! How could Australia go bankrupt? It cannot go bankrupt even under this Government. It is not going to happen under any government. The Government does not even know what the country would be like if it were bankrupt. Would we be put up for sale? Would the Chinese turn up here and say: 'Well now, what have you got? Three million square miles, 6 million houses, 26,000 miles of railway line. We will give you $ 100,000m for the lot.' As a matter of fact, it might be worth taking, the way things are going. Of course that is not going to happen. We are using the cliches of ordinary chain store philosophy when in fact we are talking about a nation and all its ways and works. 
The facts are that during the Labor Government's term of office there was a massive transfer of real wealth from the corporate sector to the private household and to the work force. That is the reason why I was elected, and it is one of the objectives I had when I was elected. It is one of the objectives I will retain, no matter what the academicians of the economic faculties care to say: The Labor Government made a substantial change in the standard of living of the ordinary people of Australia, and nothing honourable members opposite do can destroy that completely, although they have gone a long way towards doing so. I believe there are some unrealised factors. For instance, Australian manufacturing industry has been built basically on the payment of a 'reasonably' paid work force. I will not say that at every stage since the introduction in 1907 of the minimum wage and those who get big salaries; it has been reasonable in relation to the rest of the community but the facts are that very little of Australian manufacturing industry has been built upon selling its products to the rest of the world. It has been built upon selling them basically to Australians. If we interfere with that we destroy the possibility of the expansion of manufacturing industry and its stability. 
I remind honourable members that by 1975, when somebody said that they took over- in fact they seized- the government of this country, exports were greater than imports. Our overseas reserves were high. Our unemployment rate was lower than it is now, and the country on the whole was doing better than it had ever done before. I challenge honourable members opposite to stand up and tell us one single element of public life and public activity in Australia that is now better off or better done than it was in 1 975. 1 see that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is in the House tonight. One should consider the situation in 1975 under the previously existing health scheme known as Medibank and the tangle into which he has managed to get it. I recall that the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  mentioned the high inflation rate of 1975. 1 suggest that he has a look at the actual inflation rate in the September quarter of 1975. 
No, it was not. Have a look at the inflation rate, the actual rise in the cost of living in the September quarter of 1975. The honourable member should look it up and see for himself. He can try to explain it away, but the facts of life are that it was one of the lowest rates for the previous six or seven years. I want people, even honourable members opposite, to start to examine the economic theories with which we are beset. We are told that an increase in the money supply has a close relationship with the inflation rate. We are told that public expenditure is inflationary, and the corollary of that is that private expenditure is not inflationary. How do we prove that? We are told that the deficit creates an inflationary pressure. Nobody produces any particular reasons as to why that should be so. We are told that high wages are destroying the structure of the Australian economy. That, I believe, is utter rubbish. We are told that welfare expenditure is creating a community in which people are waiting for handouts, and that too is rubbish. 
I want to take a few figures to sow the seeds of what one might call a bit of philosophical agnosticism in regard to these theories. Instead of believing things and trotting out cliche after cliche after cliche, we should sit down and really examine them. The economic theories upon which much of our argument is based are really developed around the economies of North America and Europe. I do not think those models are relevant to the Australian scene. Australia is one of the few countries with the capacity practically to survive on its own account. If the rest of the world were to sink we would miss them all. We would have nobody to beat at cricket, or nobody to come along and beat us perhaps, but we could still do very nicely. We might have problems in getting the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to find out how to redistribute the wealth if the cheques were not coming in from overseas for our minerals, but we would get along quite nicely. My recent visit to Rhodesia showed exactly what a country could do when faced with a siege economy. 
I will take first of all the idea that the size of the deficit is closely related to the increase in the inflation rate, and there are some figures I have gathered today. They are not extensive examples, just a couple of examples in each case. In Canada the inflation rate in 1975 was 10.8 per cent; in 1976, 7.5 per cent; in 1977, 8 per cent; and in 1978, 9 per cent. The Government deficts in those years, as a percentage of the Budget, were 16.8 per cent, 12 per cent and 1 9.4 per cent. While their inflation rate came down their deficit as a percentage of the Budget went up. In Belgium in the period about which I am talking the inflation rate was falling- 12.8 per cent; 9.2 per cent; 7.1 per cent; and 4.5 per cent- and the deficit as a percentage of government expenditure was rising- 15.7 per cent; 16.7 per cent and 18. 1 per cent. Unless actual facts and figures can be produced which show a relationship and a correlation between these various factors it is unreal to build a theory on them. I do not know what the alternative theories are. I do not have enough time tonight to explain them. We might all have some theories and it might be just as well to put them into the ring to let people think about them. But let us stop talking about things we cannot prove or which under examination can be shown to be likely to be false. 
Another example is the growth in the money supply. The previous Treasurer, the right honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  was always talking about this. One might say that he almost had it under the bed. The growth in the money supply as a percentage each year apparently is supposed to be inexorably creating inflationary pressures. Looking at West Germany, its inflation rate in 1975 was 6 per cent; in 1976 it was 4.5 per cent; in 1977 it was 3.9 per cent; and in 1978 it was 2.6 per cent. The growth in the money supply in the last three years for which the figures are available was 3.9 per cent, 1 1.3 per cent and 14.3 per cent. So the inflation rate was going down and the growth in the money supply was going up. In the United Kingdom the situation was much the same. In 1975 the inflation rate was 24.2 per cent and it fell gradually through 16 per cent and 15 per cent to 8 per cent. The money supply, on the other hand, went up in 1976 by 1 1.2 per cent, 20.5 per cent and 15 per cent. In New Zealand the inflation rate stayed steady at 14.7 per cent, 16 per cent, 14 per cent and 12 per cent. The money supply went from 18 per cent to 1 2 per cent and up to 2 1 per cent. Again, as I have said, there is no apparent relationship. 
In relation to inflation and unemployment, in Germany inflation has been falling and unemployment has been steady. In the United States of America they have both been falling. If a relationship cannot be shown between these things the theory cannot be proved. It may be one of the factors, but we have listened year after year to so many absolutes. I am absolutely certain, because I know nearly all of the people who are talking this way, that very few people get all the figures out and examine all the factors to see whether the theory is true. They should try ringing up the economic experts who make these statements and asking them. I have done it. Nobody yet has come forward and said, 'I will let you have a statement in clear and precise terms as to why each one of those factors produces that result and that can be demonstrated from an examination of the situation around the world '. 
This afternoon I have listened to people saying that the economy is showing real growth. What is meant by that? As far as I can determine from the figures, we manufactured more motor vehicles in 1975 than we did in the last 12 months. The figures show that we built more houses in 1974-75 than we are likely to build in the next 12 months. The figures show that Australia, in almost all areas of textiles, manufactured more in 1974-75 than it is manufacturing now. I am interested to find out what honourable members mean by productivity and all the rest of it. 
Let me remind the House of another example of figures being used in a phoney way. Honourable members opposite and Ministers say that the number of people in employment has gone up. The number might have risen since last August. However, the population of Australia has gone up by 750,000 since 1974 and the number of people employed in the civilian part of the work force has fallen by 14,000. In fact, 200,000 more people should be in the work force. All I ask is that people apply themselves to this problem with some sort of intellectual integrity. Nobody knows the real answers. I think that the wealth of this country can sustain even this Government, but I believe that the time has come to throw out the mediaeval mysticism which passes for economic theory and which is used by the Treasurer and his colleagues. We should start to examine the real facts of life in the Australian scene. I do not think that the theories of North America and Europe are applicable. 
I want to carry on with some of the points that my friend the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  has been making to the House. The attitude of honourable members opposite to the whole system of education has become more and more irrelevant. It is more and more money oriented, more and more functionally oriented as regards the training of people and more and more out of place and out of time. I am not sure whether in a debate such as this at this stage in 1979 one ought to be saddened or angry. Here we are taking up so many of the battles which I thought had been won over the last 10 or 12 years. We thought that we had won the battle about the general direction of education and that the  Creadon  of an equal society with equal opportunity and an equal education system for everybody on this continent was one of the accepted national objectives. I thought that the position was the same in respect of the advancement of the Aboriginal people. Yet we hear people in this place continually denouncing whatever was done over the three years from 1972 to 1975 as wasteful and extravagant in both areas. We hear the same thing about health. We have heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the other day make what can only be regarded as a racist attack upon Labor's programs in the area of Aboriginal advancement. The same applies in so many other areas. 
Honourable members opposite were not listening to him, and I do not blame them; but we had to hear him because he was shouting at us. Education is the most pervasive social enterprise. It affects every family for some time of their life and many families for many years of their life. It takes up more personal time, I suppose, amongst students and teachers than any other aspect of life. Surely one ought not to have to appeal to an institution such as this, which has a very high proportion of highly educated people in it. Perhaps the word educated' is not adequate. Many people in this place have spent lengthy periods in the education system; but I am afraid that those on the other side of the House are increasingly becoming insensitive to the needs of the community as a whole. 
In this debate tonight I would just like to remind the House of some of the history of education over the last 20 years, because seemingly people have forgotten what it has all been about. There has been an almost irresistible and savage attack on education expenditure since about, I would say, the middle of 1974, or a fraction earlier, after Labor had been in government for about 1 8 months. Nobody could ever point to the actual area of the extravagance with which Labor was charged, but it became part of the mythology. It has crept into the system; so there is a certain disheartened approach by people to the whole question. I think I should remind the House of what it was like six or seven years ago, in 1972. There had been a public campaign for some 15 or 17 years. It was generated by teacher organisations and parent organisations. It was taken up in the Federal Parliament particularly by the Labor Party. The Labor Party, of course, had to face the issue itself for the first time at the Federal level. It was not easy. There were plenty of people who said: 'That is really not our affair. Education is back there in the State capitals'. But gradually the whole concept of it caught on and the Labor Party itself started to establish policy making bodies at the Federal level. That had its influence upon the people who now sit opposite. A former Prime Minister, the Right Honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, took up the question of universities. There were all sorts of reasons for his doing that. It would be perhaps a little ungracious now to start to attribute some of his policies of that time to the real political reasons, but he had an impact on education. I am afraid that that has diminished with his passing from the scene. 
Let me remind the House of some of the Labor Party's achievements while it was in government. First of all, the Schools Commission was established. One can only pay a tribute to the people on that body. It created a totally new element and a totally new atmosphere in Australian education. I must say that, although I knew the people on it fairly well, to my surprise it produced very rapidly a most comprehensive and progressive report. The continuing reports from the Schools Commission have been the major sign posts in Australian education. Just the establishment of that Commission was a major Australian achievement, in the face of the kind of States rights nonsense with which Federal governments are always beset. One of the achievements of the Commission was to give real definition to the needs policy- to make the needs of the schools and the children in them the principal basis for education policy and education funding. One would think that that would not be necessary in this country, but in fact it was. But to put it down in some sort of scheduled way in which a government could proceed with a steady program in an attempt to lift the schools in Australia to an equal status with one another as regards input and output was a major social and political achievement. I hope that we will not give it up. 
In the last two or three years I have seen a continuing attack upon this whole attitude, and in listening to my colleagues opposite I find a continual denunciation of education expenditure and welfare expenditure. I understand that on the other side there is a group of people who are continuously clamouring in the party room for the government to reduce expenditure on education. For heaven's sake, what are we at? Australia is one of the wealthiest countries in the world. I suppose that in potential we have more resources behind us than has any other individual group of people on this planet. We have not, of course, found adequate ways in which to redistribute those resources so that everybody may take advantage of them. We have managed to achieve increased productivity in every area. There is no shortage of any of the things that we need in a material sense. All we are lacking is the wit and wisdom with which to look at our society and ascertain what we need to do. Nobody would deny the extraordinary challenge of the next few years, which has been developing since about, 1965. What about some of the more important but unnoted progressive things that were done in the education program of the Labor Government under my former colleague, Kim Beazley? 
First, let me examine the innovation program. I mention it because members on the opposite side of the House and many other people talk about the Labor Party as being centralist. When we of the Opposition were in government we were supposed to be the regimental people who were going to drag everything under the umbrella of Canberra. Buttons would be pressed here and people would have to hop to it from one end of the continent to the other. Nothing could be further from the truth. The innovation program made grants to the schools of Australia in accordance with submissions written out by the teachers at the schools. These submissions were graded, according to priority, the amount of money required and the purpose for which it was required, by local committees. This scheme was administered very cheaply and brought a whole new environment to Australian education. 
My electorate in Melbourne covers three or four major industrial suburbs. At the time of this innovation program my electorate included Brunswick and Coburg. Now it includes parts of Preston and Northcote. My electorate was probably one of the few areas in Melbourne where this program had a real impact. The schools in my area had been deprived during the previous 50 or 60 years but under this scheme they were able to introduce innovation programs. Following the innovation program the Labor Government set out upon a total equalisation program in education throughout Australia- the needs policy was essential to that- and to upgrade the whole principle of education. There were advances in education which people now seem to ignore or forget. 
One was the isolated children's scheme. Early in Australia's history enormous efforts were made to ensure that every person received some sort of education even if there were only 10 or 12 children in a school. However, that vision seemed to have faded by about the 1950s and 1960s. At that time there were many families with children who lived a long way from school. They were totally disadvantaged. While I was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs I recall being at Cloncurry and speaking to one of the railway men there. He told me that there was a certain amount of resentment developing because the Aboriginal children received advantages that did not extend to the local white children. He said to me: 'I don't mind the Aboriginal kids getting their chance to go off to the major schools at Hughenden or Charters Towers; in fact I am pleased about it, but I only wish I could have it for my children'. 
I remember the discussions concerning disadvantaged children and finally the decision by the Labor Government to introduce the isolated children's scheme. There were people who attacked that scheme and said that the people out there have tons of money. Sometimes those people do have lots of money but on many occasions they do not. My view is that we are not in the business of creating education as a charitable organisation. A child as a person, has an absolute, inalienable right to equality of education input no matter where he or she lives and no matter whether the parents are rich or poor. I think that is a logical, social attitude to have on education in a country such as Australia which has developed over the last century or so. 
I refer now to student allowances in the secondary scheme and to changing the former scholarship scheme into an allowances scheme based on the needs of the child in a certain age group. The unfortunate aspect of scholarships is that people with certain degrees of excellence may be chosen in a particularly arbitrary way, but the approach is unfair and competitive. I do not think our society needs that competitive approach any longer. I believe that a universal approach is what is needed. 
That brings me to the subject of the abolition of university fees. That move came under attack. Quite often the people with whom I associate said to me: 'Look, who goes to universities? The children of the wealthy'. I said in reply to them: That is rubbish. Plenty of children of the nonwealthy go to university, but our objective is to make sure that the children of people who are not wealthy are able to go to university'. There has been an attack on that scheme. I have heard a number of rumours lately that the Government proposes to reintroduce university fees. I would regard that as a dreadfully retrograde step. I would be gratified if the Government, through the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  who represents the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  denied this rumour. I believe that to make universities as free as primary schools is one of the great social progressions of our time. 
The schemes I have mentioned are some of the things that the Labor Government put on the books in the three years it was in office. But let us look at the response from members on the opposite side of the House, so many of whom have been the advantaged people in the Australian community. I mention the attack on extravagance in expenditure. The first Labor Government Budget in which the education vote became greater than the defence vote was regarded by me as a major social and economic achievement in Australia. I think back to the 1950s when the Labor Party used to campaign for increased expenditure in Australian education. At that time I never thought I would see the day it would be increased. 
But now the stage has been reached where we need not only to hold education expenditure at its present level but to expand it in some areas. However, I am afraid that the statement tonight by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications concerning the Bill before the House, in which he stated that the Government has made adequate provision for this, that and the other, is a totally disheartening one. There are many things still to be done yet I see no approach by the Government, through its Minister's ideas and policy pronouncements, to cover these matters. It is still true that a large number of migrants need more teachers. It is still true that Aboriginal communities need to be better endowed with resources. 
I hope that during the recess some honourable members will take the opportunity to visit some of the schools in the Aboriginal communities which are scattered throughout Australia, especially the larger ones which teach from 300 children up to 600 children. I recall visiting the Aurukun school last year. Honourable members will recall Aurukun. It has substantial buildings and a good staff. However, these teachers are in a community where they are trying to train children in total literacy but the community itself is not literate. There are very few examples of the printed word lying around. The daily newspapers do not reach them. There is no television so they cannot read words on the screen. In fact, there is just no supply of the printed word. It is a situation that should not be too hard to overcome. A teacher told me that he would be grateful just to get comics or anything that a student could read. Even the well educated children of 15 or 16 who are in the senior part of the secondary school are still inadequately skilled in reading habits and techniques. I recall telling the story in my electorate and gathering boxes and boxes of comics which I sent off to these schools. That is just an example of an area of total inadequacy. I see no attack upon that inadequacy by this Government. 
I suppose this Government has a policy of opting out of education. It is all very well to speak in this House about placing responsibility back on the States where it belongs. In the first instance, the States are not equal. No matter whether a government is good or bad- it is quite a while since there was a good one in Queensland- each State has the same problems. For instance, Victoria faces the same problems as Queensland but Victoria's population is contained in an area of approximately 80,000 square miles whereas Queensland's population, only about one-third the population of Victoria, is scattered over an immense area of approximately 400,000 square miles. In this way the Queensland State Government faces all sorts of difficulties. 
In conjunction with New South Wales, Victoria has been the base of industrial development in Australia for nearly a century, so it starts miles in front of Queensland. Therefore, the States cannot be treated as being equal. They are not. It was part of the Labor Government's program to see that the children at Aurukun or the children in the heart of Brisbane would receive the same advantages from living in this continent as, say, the children in Canberra. We moved along the road towards putting up the signposts, establishing the apparatus, the inquiries, the school commissions and the whole spirit of the programs, but they had been stopped dead in their tracks. I regard that as a tragedy. 
However, there are continuing fallacies. One hears Ministers of Education saying that we have too many teachers. That is utter rubbish. How many teachers should one have for the disadvantaged children of Australia? How many teachers are needed in a community where the literacy is at a low level, such as in the migrant communities of Australia? For the first time in many years we have started to put ceilings on the number of teachers to be employed in schools. 
Among the weaknesses in the education system are some of the irrelevancies that still remain. We are not facing up to the difficulties which are experienced by underprivileged children. We are not facing up to the difficulties of educating people for the new period. Honourable members opposite talk about training people to be better components of the work force. As the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  pointed out, we are running an economy so that there is no work for them in the work force. We are just training them all to be better competitors for the handful of jobs. We should train them in a different sort of way. As an example I would like to mention the irrelevancy of the apprenticeship system. It will not work. It is back to front. Taking people away from work for a pan of the time and putting them into schools will no longer work. The schooling and training that they get ought to be the principal element of their working life at that stage and the working part ought to be a part of their education. 
I would suggest that in the next few years we should apply our minds to the new challenge of the 1980s. Some 100 years ago when our universal education system was established it was easy to see the objective. It was to produce a literate society and this was accomplished. Governments throughout Australia- conservative and progressive- set about their work in a determined way and established a basically literate society by the 1 980s. When it came to secondary education the task was to turn out professional and technically trained people. In the last 10, 15 or 20 years people have aspired towards obtaining a university education. The system has progressed to the stage where people find themselves proceeding into what might be called a vacuum. This is a great social and intellectual challenge. The Government will not find an answer to it by continually attacking it as a waste of money or by reducing the funds allocated to education. It is tragic that a country which ought to be leading the way is getting so little initiative from the other side. The Government is totally inadequate in this area. I believe that the people of Australia are gradually waking up to that. I hope that at the next election it will be written on every ballot paper exactly how deficient the Government has been in connection with these matters and that the Government will hand the job to the people who will get on with it and will pass into history. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation because I was misrepresented. 
Thank you. During an answer to a question the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  referred to what he called my economic enthusiasm. I want that corrected. It is not economic enthusiasm at all. It is economic cynicism, particularly in regards to his economics. 
-by leavealthough being a member of the Committee which made the report. I wish to place some reservations on record. I refer in particular to Article 23 on page 27 of the report. It refers to commercial fishing. The Torres Strait Islands are spread over an area of about 10,000 square miles, about 140 miles from east to west and 70 to 80 miles from north to south. At the moment the population is probably about 5,000 or 6,000 or a little less. However, between 12,000 and 20,000 Torres Strait Islanders scattered throughout Australia regard the islands as their home. The people of the Torres Strait Islands have no other resource than the sea. The islands are small. For instance, York Island is only a few hundred acres in size and has a population of 500. The people's only resource is the sea. 
The difficulty that I see arising out of Article 23, which deals with the sharing of a commercial fishery, is that it effectively cuts in half the capacity of the Torres Strait Islanders to develop a viable economic base. I have had a long association with the area- prior to the time of the Labor Government, while it was in office and since then on this Committee. I say quite emphatically that governments have not done enough research on the commercial fishing potential of the area. We have not received a considered study of what fish are available and for how long they will be available. Whilst as a nation we have given serious consideration to the subsistence rights of the people of the Torres Strait, it seems to me that their chance of having a viable economic future is seriously prejudiced but, I am prepared to reserve my judgment on the report to see how we go. 
However, we do have to face the fact that the Queensland Government will take every possible step to prevent the Torres Strait Islanders becoming independent in the sense I have indicated. I ask all members of the House to give serious consideration to the question. It is a fact of life that although most members of this Parliament have been to Britain, Europe, China and elsewhere, only a handful have visited the Torres Strait. I ask all honourable members to pay close attention to the commercial fishing base upon which the people of the Torres Strait used to rely. As I see it, if the terms of this Treaty are to the advantage of Papua New Guinea then they cannot be to the advantage of the Torres Strait 
Islanders. I do not believe that this has all that much to do with Australia or Papua New Guinea. In number, the Torres Strait Islanders comprise one of the smallest indigenous races in the world. I am not absolutely satisfied that they have not been prejudiced by this treaty. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-I second the motion and make some points in doing so. This is not so much a debate about poker machines as about the funds they generate. I have what one might call a paternal interest in the whole enterprise. During the golden age when I was the Minister in charge of Canberra, the poker machine ordinance came forward from the Assembly. I had very strong feelings about poker machines and such like. However, the decision was made by the local legislative body, it was accepted by the local political parties and, despite my grave reservations, I approved the decision and it was passed into law. I believe that is the way in which the Legislative Assembly should be treated. I might say the same thing happened with the Liquor Ordinance. I have reservations about it but as it had been passed by a responsible body of people, responsible to the citizens of Canberra, I approved it and it passed into law. I am baffled that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  should be interfering in this way with the funds generated in Canberra. 
The important issue here is this: Do we have any confidence in the representative system of government or do we have confidence only in the representative system of government when the members are elected to this Parliament? I was interested in the interjections of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  who implied that he disagreed with the way the Legislative Assembly was disbursing the funds. I can understand his point of view. I may well do so myself. But when we disagree with what we might call a subordinate body in Australia, are we to take away its powers to disburse its funds or do what it will with them? I only wish the Government would adopt the same attitude with the Queensland Government in its attitudes to Aboriginal lands and such like. I am absolutely baffled that the Minister should want to take over this responsibility. He may exercise his influence; he might even go along and convince the Assembly otherwise. He might take his place as what one might call a semi-temporary citizen of Canberra and talk to the Assembly as one person might talk to another. Why does he not do that? What are we doing here? We are exchanging the advice of the members of his Department- people of great competence who sometimes needed correcting during their role of advisers to a previous Minister- for the views of the locally elected people. There are two bodies of advice in this instance. The Minister has chosen to disregard completely in this instance the advice of the locally elected people. I think it is a totally wrong principle. I cannot understand why he would want to do it. Why would he want to be the distributor of these funds? It would be churlish and I think a wrong interpretation, considering his previous political behaviour, to think the Minister wanted to use the funds as a form of patronage, but it could happen in the hands of other people. 
I regard this as a piece of ministerial conceit which I do not think this Parliament ought to tolerate. It is a local responsibility. The funds are generated locally and people who are elected locally ought to be charged with the responsibility for them. The funds belong to them. Not all that many funds are generated totally in Canberra as a result of decisions taken by the people's legislative body. The funds are taken almost entirely from the local citizens. These are Canberra funds and they ought to be distributed by the representative body of Canberra. I think that that is one of the principles we ought to observe. 
The other matter involved is the evaluation of the institutions and the forms of distribution. Who is qualified to make the best judgment? Over the last four years or so we have had a Legislative Assembly composed of 18 elected people. In my view the election should have taken place three years after the representatives were first elected as was originally conceived. But now we have a new body. Its personnel has changed a good deal and that is the normal situation of elected institutions in democratic societies. Why cannot those people be entrusted with these funds? Are they not likely to have as much competence in judging and evaluating the applicants for these funds as anybody else- the staff of the Minister, the Department, or even the Minister himself? I know that there is a certain Godgiven wisdom that falls upon people when they become members of the front bench opposite and that therefore they now claim they are more able to exercise a wisdom in judgments that they have never shown before and do not show afterwards. But this is the responsibility of the people of Canberra. It is not only their right to do it through their representatives; I think it is their duty. 
I state in answer to my colleague, the honourable member for Canberra, that surely this body ought to be charged with this responsibility? How can it become anything other than a rubber stamp or engage in a ritualistic exercise if it is not entrusted with this form of judgment? I think that this goes to the very spirit of government. We either have faith in representative institutions and the capacity of representatives to make decisions or we do not. Obviously the Minister is not only making a judgment about the former Assembly; he is also making a judgment about succeeding assemblies and in particular the people of Canberra. I cannot understand it. I think it is totally wrong in principle that it ought to be rejected by the House. The Minister himself ought to withdraw the Ordinance and give the matter a second thought. 
It is no wonder that the people of Canberra have lost their faith in this Government. I thought that the propositions which were put to the people of Canberra in the referendum which was conducted last year were badly formed. I do not blame the people for not accepting them. As the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has pointed out, when the people voted for no change, they voted for the Assembly to behave and to proceed in the way it has been, or at least to exercise the sort of authority which it had already been given. One of my most serious criticisms of the way this Government has proceeded is its failure to take other people into trust. It is nonsense to talk about the Government of which I was a member being centralist when this Government is much worse. The Labor Government made an effort to generate and develop in Canberra a local governing body with some authority and responsibility. 
During that period members of the Assembly were consistently critical, not only of the Government, I suppose, but certainly of me and the fact that the Labor Government did not define their powers. I do not think that that was part of the job. My view is that government will evolve only if it is allowed to develop out of its own initiatives and dynamics. No person in Australia ought to take lightly the job of writing a new Constitution. It is almost impossible to write one which will work. My advice to the Minister- I make an appeal to him- is to generate new legislation without the authority of the House of Assembly only very tentatively and to disagree with it only very rarely. There are matters of principle with which we would all disagree. If the Government brought in a piece of legislation to reintroduce capital punishment in this city I would certainly oppose it very strongly. But over very large areas of social policy, and without interfering with the general structure of Canberra, I believe that the Assembly ought to be entrusted with the job and given the machinery to get on with it. 
If I have one regret about the Labor Government's term of office it is that we did not give the Legislative Assembly enough drafting facilities. There are all sorts of reasons for that. It was not due to a lack of trying. It was hard to drag that little republic or empire, the Attorney-General's Department, into the debate. I really cannot understand this move. We have a situation in which Canberra's representatives are not being entrusted with the sort of task that we would give to the smallest municipality in Australia. It is one of the claims to pride of this Government that it makes direct grants to people without strings being attached so that bodies of people all over Australia- known and unknown- are granted money and are allowed to use it and distribute it as they see fit. In the very heart of the nation, in the place from which many of the decisions of government flow, we do not entrust the elected representatives with this task. I believe that this is totally wrong in principle. It goes to the heart of government. There will be no faith in local government or no development of selfgovernment or any other government in this city unless this is done. As I said earlier I am absolutely baffled - 
I am not responsible for the New South Wales Government. If the honourable member would like me to give it some advice I will do so. I did so on occasions when we were involved in negotiations concerning Canberra. I say to the honourable member for North Sydney that this is one of the troubles of modern government. It is one of the great difficulties of modern representative government. It is not responsive to the people to whom it is responsible. We seem to have no faith beyond ourselves or our official advisers. I do not think that that is good enough. Representative government is under attack all around the world. 
Citizens must be brought more and more into the decision-making machinery. Unless that is done the institution will become increasingly irrelevant. Canberra is a good place for us to take this step. Frankly, I cannot understand the reason for this Ordinance. If the reason is, as the honourable member for Canberra has said, that the Assembly was making the wrong decisions, that will have to be altered in some way as we ordinarily do in government. We have to persuade governments to do things in some other way. I. put to the Minister that whilst I recognise the authoritarian nature of his political party and its general attitude to people- after all, the whole Party to which he belongs is a late development of the feudal system- this is no place for such policies to be implemented. This authority should be returned to the House of Assembly. If we disagree with what it has done, let us pass resolutions in this Parliament and tell it that we disagree. Let us go as a deputation and discuss the matters with its members. But I do not know why the Minister should take this authority unto himself. It is a battling reversion to form by the Liberal Party of Australia which internally was starting to make slight and tentative steps towards being democratic. However, as it treats this Parliament, with no respect, I do not suppose that we can expect it to treat the House of Assembly with any respect. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I want to make it clear that this is not an argument about the Nomad aircraft. It is about reasonable parliamentary procedure. During Question Time it was reasonable for the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  to give a short answer to the question he was asked. He could have made a more detailed statement later. 

 Government members interjecting- 

Honourable members opposite are attempting to intimidate me. The Nomad aircraft is the product of all governments and has the full support of the Opposition. It would not be in operation were it not for the actions of the Labor Government. The real question is whether honourable members opposite are to be allowed to continue to subvert and vandalise our parliamentary system and to obstruct the reasonable procedures that have been developed over the last 600 or 700 years to let all voices in this place be heard. The Minister for Productivity, who has been in this Parliament about five minutes, chooses to subvert Question Time to stop members of the Opposition asking questions. We know perfectly well that over the last two or three weeks every Question Time has been a time of great worry and anxiety for honourable members opposite. Every time Ministers, including the Minister for Productivity, answer questions, honourable members opposite sit there worrying about what sort of gaff" they will produce next. Every time we ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to account for his behaviour, for the promises he has made and has broken, honourable members opposite all sit there in terror. The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  who has now reached the stage where his party gets about 20 per cent of the vote in Canberra, may as well take his time now. If there are any nomads about, he is one of them. He is the first political nomad. 
This morning, about 50 minutes ago, we suggested that the Minister for Productivity should take the opportunity after Question Time to make a statement which we could then debate. We want to put our point of view about how we should support and sponsor the Nomad. We want to know why this Government has taken steps in various areas to prevent the Nomad from being accepted as the aircraft for surveillance in Australia. Why were the specifications deliberately written so that in all probability the Nomad would not be the aircraft used for this work? These are the questions we want answered. 
This Parliament is the debating chamber and the forum for all points of view. Over the last few months, and particularly the last two or three weeks, we have seen an increasing suppression of Opposition points of view in the House. I have been in this Parliament long enough to understand the Government and what it is doing. In all the years I have been here some pretty rough characters and people, who have been totally insensitive to parliamentary democracy and everything else, have sat on the other side of the House; but I have not seen a government behave towards an opposition in the way in which the present Government has behaved. From the Opposition side I have seen political censorship imposed on debates in this House. When the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was talking a few weeks ago, two days before the election in Victoria, the Government moved to suppress the whole debate to silence him. Last year I remember that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  was silenced on an education question in the same area. On many historic occasions the Government has taken steps to silence political comment in this place when such comment was in order. When the honourable member for Reid spoke, points of order were raised by honourable members opposite and the  Deputy Speaker,  in accordance with his duty and with a proper understanding of the situation, said that the remarks were in order. Honourable members opposite- I think it was probably the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)-  moved that the question be put, and the whole debate was silenced. 
If that state of affairs is allowed to continue this place will become another rump of a parliament such as those that exist in other parts of the world. This is one of the few free parliaments left and we will fight to the last ditch to keep it that way. We will take to the people the remarks made by honourable members opposite. Their comments and the interjections on occasions such as this will be circulated around their electorates. We will let their constituents know how they are treating one of the most important institutions in this country. The honourable member for Canberra who is occupying his seat only temporarily is barking like a small puppy because he has to try to impress the Prime Minister. We will let his constituents know what he is doing. It is time that we told the people of Bendigo what sort of man represents them. These are the people who will subvert every parliamentary and democratic institution in the country. They are turning this place into a bear garden. Under the leadership of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  who is a parliamentary disgrace when he gets warmed up, they did it when the Australian Labor Party was in office and they are continuing to do it now. Their time has come. 
I wish to speak to the amendment to clause 46 which seeks to change the term 'Governor-General' to Governor-General in Council'. Honourable members ought to be aware that when we talk about the Governor-General under the terms of our Constitution, we are speaking of a single Minister's decision in this matter. The GovernorGeneral in Council is acting with the advice of his Ministers and therefore is effectively the Cabinet or the Executive Council. I would say that from my experience this means that more than just one just ministerial mind is brought to bear on matters when the Governor-General is deliberating upon a person's future. I think that the House ought to support the amendment that has been put forward. This is a serious consideration of taking a power from a particular Minister and diluting or distributing that power or bringing a second mind to bear. The wordage in the Act simply means that the Minister does the job himself without proper surveillance on behalf of the victim. 
I place on record that I think that the use of the word 'Federal' is improper. It compounds some of the difficulties we have created for citizens in knowing what it means. The word 'Commonwealth' should have been used. I believe that the use of the word 'Federal' is incorrect in this sense. The proposed new police force is not really a federation of anything. Perhaps the use of the word Federal' rather than 'Commonwealth' has something to do with the present situation. Commonwealth' is a good word. It ought to be used more frequently in Australian Acts. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House- 
1 ) notes that the organs of the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, charged with the responsibility of maintaining peace, have failed to fulfil that function and that one of the reasons for this is that the structure is representative of Governments and not people; 
resolves to support moves to make the United Nations General Assembly more representative; 
resolves to repeal the unanimity rule of the Security Council which allows a single nation to thwart the wishes of the rest of mankind and replace it with a more democratic procedure; 
supports moves to review the charter of the United Nations to these ends; 
notes moves in the Indian Parliament to achieve a similar objective, and 
resolves to consult with other democratic nations in order to obtain their support for this objective. 
-by leave-I take firstly the point made by my colleague the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  relating to the role of parliamentarians at the United Nations. We have to see this as a very big organisation indeed. I suppose that on any day when the United Nations is in full session with all the committees, the six standing committees and the special political committee meeting, and perhaps the Security Council and the General Assembly in pleniary session, there would be approximately 2,000 people meeting. There is a significant exchange of international ideas. That is not always expressed in the debates because the speeches are likely to be rather stereotyped. But the fact is that it is a very big meeting and as my colleague said, I think we underrate the role parliamentarians can play in that organisation. 
The United Nations General Assembly meeting is a very long-running exercise. We arrived there in the middle of September, the last session I attended was late in January, and it was still going to meet later on. So we are committing somebody to three or four months at least to attend the United Nations. On the question of the parliamentary group, of course we took the initiative. I was made  chairman  of the group and my friend the honourable member for Higgins the rapporteur. In the course of that visit one came into close contact with many parliamentary people from around the world, but the real drive amongst people such as ourselves was to try to establish a wider-ranging contact amongst the democratic forces of the world. 
The United Nations is like any other gathering of human beings. It is broken up into factions. There is the ideological group- the Eastern bloc and perhaps even the western Europeans. Then there is the religious group, which is developing rapidly. The Islamic group extends from the 
Atlas Mountains to the borders of Papua New Guinea, I suppose, now that Indonesia is included and is co-operating. There is the geographical group," in which we find the African countries setting themselves up in some sort of caucus- quite a lot of the time. When we add all the African countries together as well as some of the Arab nations, they have almost 50 per cent of the voting strength of" the United Nations. Then, of course, there are the economic groupings, including the group of 77 calling themselves the developing nations. How countries such as Argentina and Uruguay can call themselves developing nations I do not know. I told them that I thought this was modesty beyond belief. We have to start - 
-That is right, yes. This morning I placed on the Notice Paper a General Business item to examine the general structure of the United Nations. I agree that as Australians we ought to take steps to initiate this. We underrate the role that Australia can play. We ought now to start to examine very closely the factors that make the United Nations a stereotyped nonactive organisation in the cause of world peace. It is easy to write down the United Nations. In such things as cultural co-operation and administrative co-operation it achieves great things. Smallpox has been practically obliterated from this planet by the work of this organisation. That is a major human achievement. However, when we come to the Security Council, that is no longer a functional body for peace. I sat in on a Security Council meeting at which it was discussing the invasion of Kampuchea by Vietnam. The vote was 13 to two- 13 to condemn Vietnam, two against. The vote was lost. One would think almost that this arrangement was drawn up by the Country Party. The two countries that voted against the condemnation, of course, were Czechoslovakia and Russia, Russia had the veto, which meant the vote could not be carried. The Security Council cannot operate in this way. 
If one looks at the Notice Paper and at those matters we are going to take off the record this afternoon, the House willing, one will notice several items about peace-keeping forces. These cannot get off the ground while one of the five permanent members of the Security Council resists it. If we consider the situation in southern Africa, the Security Council members who are principally charged with the responsibility of producing and protecting and expanding world peace are the countries that are the biggest arms sellers. We have to change that. We have to take a look at the structure of the United Nations. As I have said, Africa, with perhaps 10 per cent of the world's population and 0.1 per cent of the world 's gross domestic product and producing a very small percentage of the funds to run the United Nations, has nearly 30 per cent of the votes. 
It is 30 years since the United Nations was established in 1945 with 45 member nations, lt cannot work any longer in this way. It simply needs to be changed, like all human institutions. It is going to be a long haul. It might take 1 0 or 1 5 years, but the longer the journey the sooner we ought to start. I am grateful for the opportunity of attending the United Nations. 
It is one of the more useful exercises in which one is able to indulge by having membership of this place. There are many things that members such as ourselves could do at the United Nations. I think we ought to adopt the same attitude we adopt to Inter-Parliamentary Union conferences. There should be some sort of continuum of membership from year to year, although nobody would want to be at the United Nations for two years and four months in succession. Some European countries as was pointed out in the report, send four or five people to the United Nations and change them around over the period. I do not know whether the Leader of the House, who is at the table, is trying to wind me up, but if that is the case I will keep going. We do not often have the opportunity to discuss these matters. I hope that I am talking about something that is of vital interest to humanity and mankind. I suggest that honourable members read the report carefully, and especially the section that has on it the signatures of the honourable member for Higgins and myself. 
-by leave-I hope that the report speaks for itself. I will mention some of the points that are in it so honourable members may delve into it for themselves. The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  who supports the report, worked hard on the delegation. I found that, despite his grievous political errors, he is actually a good person when it comes to working as far from home as possible. I suppose I am speaking on behalf of the three members in this matter. 
We should get firmly in our minds the point that Australia was, as far as one can use 'official' about our delegation, the only one of the 151 nations of the United Nations which had people there who speak to and for and from and with and directly to government and are part and effect of that. I think that is a plus for us although there are some people I think who say that we ought to be ashamed of that fact. On the other hand, I think that the rest of the world ought to be ashamed. 
I belong to a party which believes in the spirit of free inquiry- to go, to look and to find out for oneself where possible. Zimbabwe Rhodesia is under seige. This country of six million people, about half the size of New South Wales, is very much on its own. I think I speak for my two colleagues in making the point that we did not come home starry-eyed about the government or about the future. We are more optimistic than pessimistic about its future. I think that, in the run-up to the election, there was the opportunity for free campaigning, as far as one could determine. One cannot give an absolute clean bill of health on that because there is no way of checking on some of the things that may have been done by police forces and security forces in the last few months. The election, as my friend from Higgins said, was technically as clean as an election could be. The Government, I think, is going to be a parliamentary government in control of the situation, given the normal run of human affairs. I think it was much closer to being a democratic election than an election in Queensland. It is a list system in which people put their crosses against the party for which they wish to vote. The names of candidates are on the ballot paper. There are symbols on the ballot paper which make it easier for them to vote. 
A new environment has developed there and the world will now have to face African people across the table. So far as we could determine, the social situation has changed completely in the last two years. I refer to the military situation. There are people who believe that the Patriotic Front is the legitimate government in Zimbabwe Rhodesia, that it ought to take it over and that it will. My guess is that the military situation is on the side of the Government. It is not good guerrilla country. It is similar to the country to the west of Canberra or in western New South Wales. It is not an easy country for patrols to roam in without being winkled out. These patrols face a very efficient military force indeed. I hope that honourable members will take the opportunity to study Zimbabwe Rhodesia at first hand. In the near future, a parliamentary delegation will go to Africa to visit Zimbabwe Rhodesia. In view of the Zaire conference if it is indiscreet in the present situation for that delegation to go there in total, perhaps individual members could go. However, the parliamentary delegation ought to include Botswana in its tour as it is perhaps the other democratically elected country in Africa. 
So that members may be able to study the documents at first hand, I will put my copy of the Constitution, plus some documents including the party policies, into the Parliamentary Library. Kindly remember that they belong to the honourable member for Wills. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) Is it planned to transfer the Manpower and Programs Policy Division, Manpower and Industry Studies Division, Management Services Division and the Women's Bureau and Employment Discrimination Section of the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs to Canberra. 
What is the schedule for the transfer and how many officers are involved. 
Will the move from the industrial centre of Melbourne to the non-industrial area of Canberra be to the advantage of the efficiency of these departmental elements. If so, in what way. 
What studies have been carried out on the social impact of these moves on the families involved. 
What steps have been taken to ensure that there will be employment available for all the young people not employed in the public service transferring with their families. 
In respect of the persons referred to in part (5), (a) how many are involved, (b) in what age groups are they and (c) what employment is available for them in Canberra. 
-I am rather intimidated by the enthusiasm of honourable members opposite pouring into the House to hear what I have to say on these measures. They do not need the education which is going to pour from my lips at this moment. Actually, we are not dealing with matters of great weight or great length. The speeches made by the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  on the three Bills before the House took about 400 words. Of course, these Bills deal principally with changing the name 'Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly' to 'House of Assembly' in various ordinances and one Act concerned with the Australian Capital Territory. I might suggest that the Minister raise with the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  the question of whether it is not possible for a piece of legislation to be brought down which makes it automatic for names to be changed in other legislation consequent upon changes such as this. However, if that had happened honourable members would have been deprived of the advantage of listening to me at this moment. 
First of all, I query the desirability of changing the name of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly to the House of Assembly. As I understand it, the Minister said: 'Well, the people of Canberra have rejected selfgovernment and it is no longer a legislative body'. I do not think that that is a valid argument. In the first instance the idea behind creating that body, the Legislative Assembly, was that it would be able to initiate ordinances and consider ordinances submitted to it by the Department of the Capital Territory or the Minister. To that extent it was legislative. I hope that it continues to be so because I believe that we have made a fundamental error in the way we have handled the question of self-government and the development of self-government in the Australian Capital Territory. 
It was my view that we should have allowed self-government in this territory to evolve. There was great pressure from the members of the Legislative Assembly, as we christened it in, I think, 1974, to have their powers defined. They used to complain: 'We have no powers'. My own view, expressed quite often, was that they had the power to make whatever legislation they felt was proper for them. They had to face the fact that the legislation then had to run the gauntlet of this Parliament. I did not see any great difficulty in that. We, the honourable members of a legislative body, the House of Representatives, having considered matters of great moment and small moment, still have to see legislation run the gauntlet of another institution, the Senate. Therefore I regret that we changed the name insofar as it deprives these members not so much of the ability to do things, but probably helps deprive them of the will to do things. The idea was that as time went on the Legislative Assembly would develop a system of its own and would gradually evolve a relationship with the Minister, the Department and this Parliament which would produce an effective form of self-government. 
I think that most Australians would agree that a formal document setting out constitutional powers is very difficult to design in such a way that it does not become irrelevant with time. As one of those who was circumscribed in all sorts of ways between 1972 and 1975 by the constitutional processes that pertained between this House and the other place and between ourselves and the Governor-General, I think that it is folly to attempt to define the constitutional processes too narrowly in documented form. These processes have to evolve. I think that is more or less the way in which they have developed in Britain and other parts of the world. My own attitude- and I think it is totally different from that of the present Minister- was that unless there were very compelling reasons to not accept legislation coming forward from the Legislative Assembly it ought to pass. During my term of office as Minister I gave my concurrence to two pieces of legislation, one on poker machines, for which I had very little regard, and one for 24-hour drinking, about which I had grave reservations. But while I wished that the poker machine ordinance had been put to the people in the form of a referendum, that was not the view of my colleagues in Caucus. Therefore I gave my concurrence. In the case of the 24-hour drinking ordinance- I must point out that we did not make drinking for 24 hours compulsory or anything like that- this opened up a new area in Australia, I should think, as regards the supply and sale of alcohol. I again gave my concurrence. I think it is unfortunate that the Minister has not adopted the same attitude to the House of Assembly. That is the point I would like to make. I regret that we have changed the name. However, I do not know that it makes any significant difference to its functions. 
There is another point. What is the role of the member of the House of Assembly on the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority? I think this is something that many members of the House of Assembly, the former Legislative Assembly and the former Advisory Council have not realised as being of very great importance. There are three members on the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority. There is the  chairman  and two others. One is the representative elected by the House of Assembly and the other is a member representing the Department of the Capital Territory. They, of course, are the executive of a very important statutory body in this area. It was my wish and my hope that during the period of development other chairmen would gradually be replaced by chairmen from the Assembly. I had differences of opinion with some of my colleagues about this matter. It was felt that a person who became a member of such an authority would become imprisoned by its processes and the authority would lose some of its functions to a member of the Assembly. I do not agree with that. 
It is my privilege to represent this Parliament on the Council of the National Library of Australia. I regard it as a matter of continuing pleasure. It is a duty which I enjoy. I hope I serve a useful purpose. It is my belief that more and more members of this Parliament ought to be placed in authorities which we have created. It would be necessary, of course, for such people to be from both sides of the Parliament. I think that would be desirable. I believe that there is great talent in this Parliament and that it is being wasted by the underemployment of honourable members in executive and administrative responsibilites. We have placed upon some 27 members of the Parliament the responsibility of administering matters in departments of state, The fact that the present models are not all that bright at it does not deprive the Parliament of its responsibility in these matters. 
Why do we not appoint one of our members as a member of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, on the board of Qantas Airways Ltd, and to the bank boards, commissions of various sorts and so on. There are statutory authorities which exercise great influence upon the way in which the country progresses. I believe that there is an opportunity for elected members of parliament to take an important part in the governing of this city. I hope that the Minister for the Capital Territory will give thought to the proposition that it may well be useful to consider appointing as chairmen of these authorities members of the House of Assembly. I would like to see the matter debated and the Parliament give thought to that as a general principle. I recognise that there are points for and against. When in government we appointed several members of parliament as chairmen of authorities and there had been appointments preceding those appointments. 
One other point of interest about the Bill is the retiring age for members of the Electricity Authority. I admit that I was a bit remiss about this matter in the two years- the golden age- when I was administering the Authority. I notice that the retiring age for members of the Authority is 65 years. I notice that that also includes the elected member of the House of Assembly. I think that this is rather unusual. For instance, it does not apply to the Parliament's representative on the Council of the National Library, on the Council of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies and, certainly, at the Australian National University. It does not apply to members of this Parliament although various parties have rules about it in one form or another. 
It is my view that if someone has been elected to represent the people of the community it is not appropriate for anybody to apply any restrictions to his capacity to carry out his duties. If people choose to elect someone to the House of Assembly he should be equal with every other member of it even if he had chosen in a rather unwise fashion, as I did, to be born in 1914 and was therefore in a certain category. I make the point to the Parliament that in the present situation of representative government I do not think that it is appropriate for there to be any restrictions upon the age or anything else of people who are elected as representatives. We would certainly revolt against any suggestion that a person should not be elected because of that person's sex, race or religion. We live in a society in which governments are chosen to represent people and I think that the l.S million or 2 million people who were born before, say, 1914 or 1915 ought to be able to continue to be representatives on various bodies. The Victoria branch of my party - 
-If anybody who is better than I am turns up, I will stand aside. Nobody has yet produced anyone from the four thousand million people on our planet. This happens to be the rule in the party to which I belong and it is a matter of moment to the people who become involved in it, but I have noticed in recent times that it has caused very senior and important people to go compulsorily out of the Public Service and places such as that. I recognise all the difficulties with it. It has been part of a long tradition. But the time has arrived for us to be able to apply sanctions to individuals in accordance with their capacity to carry out their jobs. I again ask the Minister for the Capital Territory to give serious thought to raising the status of the House of Assembly in all the operations in Canberra so that the people involved may be enticed into taking a more effective role in the governing of this city. A little more faith should be placed in their judgment in certain administrative matters. I regret that over the last 1 2 months or so there seems to have been a diminution of their significance and importance in administrative and executive matters. 
I wish to address the House on an answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  which was published in yesterday's  Hansard.  It deals with the seizure and disposal of foreign fishing vessels. Some interesting questions arise from a study of this document. There are 82 vessels involved and the schedule which is incorporated gives the vessel's name, where it was apprehended and the name of the owner. It states how long it was held before disposal, the way in which it was disposed of, the name of the purchaser and the price. I suggest that somebody, perhaps the Public Accounts Committee, should take a good look at the way the Government disposes of public property. The schedule shows some interesting figures. Trawlers of various sorts were disposed of for sums as low as $5,000 or $6,000. 
I want to cite as an example one vessel about which I know something. In 1973 the Minister responsible asked me whether the Department of Aboriginal Affairs could use for the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people one of the four trawlers which were anchored in various harbours and which had been seized and forfeited to the Crown. I said that this could be done. I arranged with a former member of this House, Captain Sam Benson, to examine them. We chose one which was anchored in Darwin. Strangely enough, we ran into a great deal of resistance. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs at that time said that the vessels were not appropriate and that the people could not use them, as if the people who lived by the sea could not be trained in this way. The Department of Transport intervened. I am talking about a ship called the  Yung Yuan No. 21  which was apprehended in late 1 972. If my memory is correct this vessel was a little over 100 feet long. It had a cruising radius of some 1 1,000 miles. It had approximately 250 tonnes freezing capacity. It was a Taiwanese ship which had been made in 
Japan. As far as Australian general conditions were concerned it was inadequate because the between decks area was built for people smaller than the average Australian. 
I made arrangements for this ship to be transferred to the Torres Strait Islanders. It was to become a kind of mother ship, a fishing and training ship. It was eventually taken to Walker's shipyard in Maryborough. The shipyard was very anxious to get to work on it. We took all the necessary administrative steps. At about that time, and for reasons which I will not debate here tonight, I became the Minister for the Capital Territory. Having happily got rid of me, the Department, or somebody within the Department, decided that that ship ought to be diposed of. I find here a figure, which I knew, by the way, but now that it has been published I feel free to talk about it. The vessel was sold to the Big River Shrimp Company, South Grafton, for $35,000. At the time Walker's shipyard told me that the value of the vessel was at least $500,000. 1 know that that ship became a very solid money earner for its owners. It recently sank in the Gulf of Carpentaria. It was known as  The Northern Pearl.  I am suggesting that if what happened in that case happened to all the ships which have been disposed of to private citizens- and a number of them have been given to various people; the Torres Strait Islanders in Cairns received one as a gift- there is something wrong with the system. I must admit that I feel a great deal of indignation in that regard. The Torres Strait Islanders were the losers and the community lost an asset. If a vessel is to be disposed of in some way one might as well return it to its original owners. 
There are several interesting points that arise out of the answer to this question. In one case, under the heading: 'Owner' it says 'Unknown'. Under the heading ' Purchaser and Price ' it states Former Owners'. The vessel was returned to the former owners for an unknown amount. How can something be disposed of by the Commonwealth and be paid for, yet the price remain unknown? A good deal of detail has been put into this question but I still think it is inadequate. It is time that we had a good look at the disposal procedures for Commonwealth property. A number of people have been able to get very cheap vessels in these instances. That was certainly a very valuable ship which was taken from the Torres Strait Islanders, although they had great need of this vessel, and disposed of at a ridiculous price to someone in an advantageous position. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. During the course of Question Time the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  stated in answer to a question on wool that the former Labor Government reduced the reserve price of wool. I say as a member of that Government that that statement reflects upon the judgment of that Government and its members. The statement is not true. The facts are that we established the reserve price at 250c per kilo, 21 micron clean, and funded it to the extent of $340m. It gave the wool industry a proper base from which to operate for the first time in history. The present Government has done very little to improve on that - 
-Perhaps I should add a few words on behalf of those people who served in the same sort of forces as I did and, I think, my colleague the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  did. Lord Louis Mountbatten attended the last parade of the Australian forces in Balikpapan in, I think it was, early September 1945.I support the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  about the enormous charisma of the man and also the feeling that flowed from him that, no matter how high his estate, he was a man's man and a soldier's, sailor's and airman's man and regarded them all as equal members of the team. The horror of the whole world, of course, has been expressed most eloquently by the action of the Government of India in declaring seven days of mourning. I hope that out of this will come a mobilisation of all the forces of the world associated with government and otherwise to suppress the international terrorism which has made this crime possible. It seems almost impossible. Lord Louis attended the celebrations in Norkfolk Island during our term of office. I came to know him reasonably well, as one does in those sorts of situations. I recall that he took back to his estate in Britain two Norfolk pines. One can only hope that they prosper. On other occasions I was associated with him at some meetings that we attended. So, on behalf of the soldiers who stood on parade before that great serviceman in 1945,I say him a sad farewell and express my horror and shock. I know that all those of the 7th Division who were there would feel the same. 
I hope that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  will recognise the act of grace on our part in granting leave, as it flows so very slowly from that side of the House. I start by asking a simple question: What on earth does he mean by 'small government' and 'big government'? When he goes home tonight and turns up on the tap, does he not want water to come out of it? When he drives home tonight, does he not want to drive along a road with a surface that does not smash the springs of the car? When he talks about pensioners, does he not want them to get the pension about which he was talking? It is just another piece of intellectual nonsense. It is a total aberration in a sensible debate. He talks about taxes, as everybody else seems to do. What on earth has happened to everybody? Frankly, I do not mind paying taxes if I get for them the kind of society in which I want to live; if there is a good hospital to go to when I am ill, if the fire brigade turns up when my house catches fire, if my children and grandchildren have good schools and universities to attend when they grow up, if the country is properly defended and properly represented, and all the rest of it. It is the direction of expenditure which we would challenge. It is time we challenged this nonsense that we can run a modern, complicated society without people paying their fair share. I think that is a question for debate and discussion. 
At this moment we are discussing the financial arrangements for one of the world's most wealthy countries, man for man and woman for woman, a country in which the citizens have behind them, I would think, a greater economic potential than in any other, and that does not exclude America, Canada or anywhere else. I hope to expand that proposition during the course of the Estimates debates and other debates. That is what we are on about. It seems to me that the task is not to turn everything in the Budget into a set of percentages or to relate it to the situation in 1972 to 1975, or such things, but to disperse the miasma of mythology which seems to have grown up in the whole economic debate, in which theories are being advanced without analysis, which seems to prevent people from having sensible discussions about them, and in which we cannot even open a debate on some issues. I suggest that honourable members try to discuss interest rates and ask why the Government cannot bring interest rates down if the Government put them up and so on. I recognise all the technical difficulties. I have been around here long enough to see them all. 
As I see this debate and particularly the speeches from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  honourable members opposite and so many other people who take part, the whole thing is clouded by theories which do not hold water when they are given close analysis. In the short time that we have tonight we cannot do much analysis; we can only pose the problems and hope that the community will start to turn its mind to them. However, I suggest to the Treasurer, just before I really get under way, that the Budget be recast in its presentation. There is a total misconception about it. For instance, I think this Budget has a total Commonwealth running expense of $22,000m. The total Commonwealth revenue is, I think, $23,759m. That, of course, on a running account represents a surplus of $ 1,700m, or thereabouts. Of course there are grants to the States and there are capital works and all the rest of it- totalling $6,500m- with the result that we are talking about a deficit. I wish the etymologists, or whoever design words, could get to work and think out new words so that we could take the clouds away and start to analyse it, because that is not the way the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the Bank of New South Wales Ltd, the Utah Development Co. or the rest of the big companies bring down accounts. It is not even the way many of the State governments do it. They suddenly end up with a surplus situation out of money granted by the Commonwealth, while the Commonwealth spends its time trying to reduce the expenditure to get rid of some mythical subject called the deficit and bring it into balancewhatever use that will be. 
The honourable member for Macarthur asked a few questions about social security and matters of that nature. This is not a Budget for the unemployed, the homeless, the home seekers, the Aboriginal people, the young through education or anything else, the sick or the old. I think we believe that it is more appropriate to discuss those matters in detail in the Estimates debate. .This Budget is divisive; it does not tackle the question of unemployment. It is not a question of the unemployment benefits, we pay; it is a question of how we are going to tackle one of the most divisive and despairing factors of Australian society. I think unemployment is the most socially destructive force we face. We do not have to be very bright to see that. There has been a rising crime rate and there are tens of thousands of young people who see no future. 
I speak as one who left school in 1932 and did not get a job until the end of 1935. During that period there was always a chance that things would get better. We lived in a world of cyclical change. That was the way it had always been. We were pretty sure that it would get better. I agree with my friend the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  that we now live in a totally different society. There is no resemblance between 1979 and even 1969, and certainly not between 1979 and 1939. The increase in productivity per person and the total social change brought about by that bring a totally new concept of society which we have not faced up to. None of us know what the answers are. We have been brought up to believe that unless one works one is not a full and whole person. That is the way we all feel. We despair about young people who cannot get work and we despair if our own children are faced with great difficulties. We were brought up that way. We are not accustomed to having a leisured class. None of us at the present moment want to belong to a leisure class. For the foreseeable future, full employment has to be a major objective. If we have to recast our economy, change working hours, do something different with the monetary system and change the way government faces its budgeting, then we have to do it. I believe that that is more important than some of the mythology that has been cast around. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  who is always long on rhetoric and short on reason in these matters, made all sorts of statements. He said that it was no longer a simple Keynesian world. I do not think it ever was. The last person who said that it was simple was probably John Maynard Keynes himself. 
The Minister for Defence talked about Government profligacy leading to some sort of economic disaster. That is one of the cliches of the last six or seven years which do not mean anything. Then he talked about inflation. He said that it was the cause of unemployment. How long has he lived? He is a bit younger than I am. He is obviously a slow learner. I have in front of me the indices of cost of living rises, the retail prive index based on 1901. In 1930 the figure was 162. In 1931 it went down to 145. It went down gradually to 139. It sneaked back to 141 five or six years later. It was 1941 before it got back to what it had been in 1930. During all of that period nearly 30 per cent of the work force was unemployed. There is no security in no inflation. There are some other matters we have to manage. This applies to many other things. Is it not possible for us to start to look more hopefully at the future and to demand more creative and constructive thinking from the Government in these matters? 
What advantages does Australia have? Firstly, as I said, it has an enormous potential backing every citizen. My friend from Lalor quoted productivity figures. We are probably the world's most efficient producers of primary products. Australia produces more wool per head of population than any other country. In fact, I think Australia produces half of the world's fine wool. Australia is one of the few countries that has ever produced more than a tonne of wheat per head of population. This productivity is reflected in the production of sugar, meat and most fruits. We have only one or two competitors. For instance, in meat, there is New Zealand. Australia has a remarkably productive economy. In mining, our production of coal, bauxite and iron ore is greater than that of almost all other countries, making most other producers look as if they are doing the work of pygmies. 
Our manufacturing industry is under constant attack. You and I,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and my friend from Lalor and my friend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  represent major manufacturing areas of Australia. Most of the things that are said about our manufacturing industry being inefficient, featherbedded and unproductive are sheer nonsense. They are said by people who never go inside a factory. They are just not true. Of course in some ways we cannot compete with the people of South East Asia. If we pay wages at something like 10 times the level paid to people who work in the textile factories of South East Asia that can be used as an economic argument to show that we are not as efficient. But on the basis of man hours and woman hours our productivity is a match for anybody. At present between 50 and 70 per cent of our manufacturing capacity is employed. Yet our industry is able to supply the Australian community fully. 
There is no future in hoping for an increase in retail sales to take up Australian manufacturing capacity. How can it? Who is going to buy three or four motor cars just to make the community's machinery work better? Who is going to buy twice as much food or three times as many suits? Nobody is. As a personal observation, some five or six years ago while Labor was in government I could see that Australian manufacturing industry had started to outstrip Australia's capacity to consume or Australia's needs in many matters. It is true that great numbers of Australians do not have all they need. But we are not doing anything in this Budget to put them into the market place. The pensioners will not go into the supermarkets to buy more food as a result of this Budget. The old person who has retired and who would like to do up his house will not go into the hardware shop to order more paint or engage a carpenter to work as a result of this Budget. 
If we look at other factors in Australian society we see that our services on the whole are generally efficient. I have been overseas a few times on behalf of this country,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you have, well representing us, as you have always done. When one stays at a motel or hotel in another country one can be confident that the wages being paid to the staff there are much less then those being paid to employees in hotels and motels in Australia. But outside the major city areas of Australia accommodation is cheaper. We get better service from more highly paid workers. There is no better demonstration of this fact about Australian life than an examination of Qantas Airways Ltd. Some time in the last 12 months Qantas produced figures to show the relationship of its salaries and wages to the level of its total expenses and those of all its competitors. It pays the highest wages and it earns the biggest profits. On the whole I am convinced it also supplies the best service. The suit I am wearing is Australian made. I think that it cost $136. My view is that it is well made and that it will wear as well as anything else. Of course it has a very suitable figure upon which to display itself. That is as good as one will get anywhere. 
-Both of them-the figure and the suit. Would one do any better in Hong Kong, where the people are being paid half and onethird the wages? I have my doubts. That is the potential we have to work with in Australia and which this Government ignores. It is time we brought three different economic indicators into use to evaluate the economy. For too long we have been looking at the share market, retail trade, profits and capital inflow as the indicators of economic health. I suggest that we start to look at the economy according to these criteria: How close are we to full employment, what is the level of real wages- what one can get for one's wages- and how many people live below the poverty line? We are struck down with a whole host of myths. I hear the Prime Minister talking about inflation as if it were the only word in the English language. I hear honourable members opposite attacking wage levels as the cause of all our trouble. I hear them weeping about the low productivity of the Australian worker. I hear them talking about Government expenditure as if it were something vicious, evil and wicked, until the day they get their salaries paid into their bank accounts, I suppose. 
In the five minutes of my speech that remain I want to deal with several of these points. I shall deal firstly in wages and profits. The Australian worker, as I assume most honourable members would agree, given decent working conditions and encouragement, produces as well as anybody else- and in my view better than most. What is the score? In the last Budget Speech- I actually copied it down- near the beginning the Treasurer said that profits are rising and that is necessary to maintain or consolidate our progress. On the last page of his Speech he said that one of the most vital things is wage restraint. So the Government wants increased profits and wage restraint. What is the score? Just take two Australian companies which command great respect and I think are of reasonable competence. I think most honourable members would have heard of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. I have here a copy of  BHP News Review.  Under the heading Profit hike '-will somebody write to BHP to tell it to stop using that sort of Americanism and to use the reasonable Australian words that we use when dealing with these matters- 'good omen for economy' an article shows that profit was $785m before FAU- I understand that means fixed assets utilisation- interest and tax. Take off the interest- I will be generous to that extentand it leaves something over $700m. BHP has 60,000 employees. If that number is divided into something over $700m it works out at about $12,000. BHP makes $12,000 profit per employee per annum. That is more than average weekly earnings. Yet BHP tries to chisel the workers out of their tea money. It fights, rows and argues about every wage rise. 
All right. I will refer to another suffering company which has had a strike on its hands, the Bank of New South Wales. It made a profit of $188m before tax. If it pays wages it does not pay tax on it. It has 20,000 employees. That means it made $9,000 profit per employee per year. Its employees have been on strike because of their inadequate returns. Anyone can go through all the figures if he likes. I have done a good deal of work on this subject. Telecom Australia is another great master of profit taking. We have to start changing our system of values because the old one is no longer working. The Australian worker is not silly. When he sees those figures in the financial pages and when he hears the Treasurer talking about putting wages down and putting profits up he will not wear it. So we have to change our set of values. 
I do not believe that the rising level of wages is the cause of rising unemployment. Some of the lowest wage countries of Europe, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Greece- have the lowest wages and the highest unemployment. These things do not add up. The reason I am speaking like this tonight is in the hope that honourable members, those people listening and even the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  in the few months in which he will remain a member of this place- he is like me; we will go forth togethermight sit down and start analysing these figures to ascertain whether all those arguments produced from honourable members opposite have any proper values. What has happened to real wages? In 1975, average weekly earnings could purchase 1,427 litres of petrol. Now average earnings can purchase only 773 litres. In 1975, six weeks' pay could buy an air ticket to London and back. Now it costs nine or ten weeks' pay. I have set out many examples and I suggest that honourable members examine them. We have to look at real wages, at the poverty line and the total work picture in this community to make judgment on the economy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the House an important operation which is just getting underway. I refer to the assessment of the entries that have been lodged in the competition for the design for the new Parliament House. I think this is a very fundamental matter for this Parliament. I am not making any criticism of the assessment panel or of anything else but I think it is time we examined the situation to see whether there is any way in which the collective judgment of the members of this Parliament can be brought to bear as well. The original competition was announced and, as I understand it, some 300 entries have been lodged. Somewhere in this city a whole host of them is waiting to be assessed by the panel. This is a very important operation. There is very little parliamentary input to that panel. The assessors are  Sir John  Overall,  Mr Andrews-they  are both architects- Professor 
Stevens, who is an engineer, and two members of this Parliament, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  and  Senator Evans.  I am not questioning their capacities or anything of that nature but it seems to me to be a fairly narrow group for what is a most significant decision. I hope that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  will think of some way in which there can be a greater input by the panel, even if it is only to examine the proposals and to express opinions and advice to the people who represent us. I just point out that it is fairly narrow professionally. There are several architects, two lawyers and an engineer. I suggest that the decision which has to be made is an enormously important cultural and aesthetic one. 
The new Parliament House has been in gestation, I suppose for some 12 or 15 years or more. The first decision by the original Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House was that is ought to be placed on the lake. A motion was moved in this House that that be done. An amendment was moved that the new parliament house be placed on Capital Hill. That was eventually adopted after many, many motions and battles around the place. Now we have to proceed with what I think is one of the greatest architectural challenges and opportunities that has ever been offered to Australia. I am quite confident that no matter how estimable the people on those panels are, they do not cater for all of the tastes and all of the views, aesthetic and otherwise, that are available through this Parliament. After all, we are building a new parliament house, we are not building something for the architects or for engineers or for lawyers. We are building a significant institution for this Parliament. 
I would remind honourable members that the people who have been associated with the building of this capital have produced what I would regard as functional austerity as an architectural form rather than something with grace and space that I think should be part of the Australian architectural scene. It took Australia a long while to develop a painting theme of its own. I suppose that the last half of the last century was used up before there was development of the Australian art form. It is only in recent years that an Australian attitude has been developed about films which makes the Australian film distinctive. This is also the case with popular entertainment. But I do not think Australian architecture has yet produced a style of its own. It is not too much to say that I think that there is an Australian spirit about the countyside, the people in it and its social organisation. I am quite confident that none of that has so far been expressed in any architecture in this city, desirable as many of the buildings are. Therefore, I hope we will do something about creating an opportunity for members of this Parliament to look at and investigate the entries and express some opinions to the members who represent us on the panel. 
I would suggest that it is a fairly narrow representative system that has placed the two members on this panel. Both are relatively new to this Parliament, both are lawyers and both, fortunately, are from Melbourne. I think there are other forms of cultural inputs that can come from this Parliament. I hope that all members will examine this question thoroughly and that some time next week we will be able to take some steps to ensure that there is a closer look at it and obtain a greater input from the members of this Parliament than I can see is going to happen unless we are careful about it. 
I suggest that an amendment to the Public Works Committee Act should be considered. A good number of other Committees have permanent authority to sit while the House is sitting. I am sure that my friends on the Public Works Committee would be better able to carry out their duties if we did not have to wait for such a motion to come before the House. It has become almost standard practice with some other committees that they can meet at any time they like. 
-If I could just cheer the honourable gentleman on- 
Yes, that is right. As a matter of fact, whenever the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  follows my advice he ends up being on the right track. Firstly, I think we should get on with the business of this Parliament. Secondly, I think it is important that the Standing Orders Committee look at this matter. Thirdly, I think it is important that we adopt the principle that was initiated by the Right Honourable  Sir John  Gorton when he was Prime Minister- those matters which concern the Parliament are subject to free and open votes and discussions in this place. I take it that honourable members opposite may well have taken the point that was made from this side of the House that whilst it is gratifying that the parties on the other side of the House have had some influence upon the Executive, it is less than gratifying that we were not consulted. In fact, matters were decreed and proceeded with without consultation with the serfs over here. It is important that we all participate in these matters, because we are all concerned with the Parliament. The reign of terror by Government members opposite will be of short duration. They have to get used to the fact that they will not be able to run the show in the way they like for much longer. 
I do not see any great difficulties with the technical side of the proposal. I am not convinced that there is room for only two committees to meet. One of the oddities of this Parliament is that seven committee rooms are provided for the Senate and yet the House of Representatives has only three. I do not know whether that is a reflection that the House of Representatives is much more subservient to the Treasury. I think there is room for even four committees to meet at once. In my view there is no reason why the chamber ought not be used. If we let the Premiers and people like that in here it ought to be possible for us to use it on occasions such as this. 
-Not always. It is possible for us to meet, perhaps, on a Friday morning or a time such as that. I think we have to recognise that. Estimates committees ought to be as important as any of the Standing or Select committees of the Parliament. 
I am always astonished by my friends on both sides of the House who find it very difficult to be round here on Friday mornings because they have to get back to their electorates. 
Oh, yes, but if one lets it be known that there is an overseas tour of six or seven weeks' duration it is remarkable how many members can be away from their electorates for those six or seven Fridays. I am not convinced that the attendance by the honourable member for Perth in his electorate- or that outer western town he comes from- is all that essential. I am sure that the actual structure of the Committees is important. We all ought to be able to participate. I am not convinced that it is impossible for these committees, if necessary, to be broadcast. That could at least be tried as an experiment. A number of radio programs have an attraction for a lot of people when they consist of discussions of small groups around a table involving themselves in a subject. There are a number of weaknesses in the way in which we are proceeding. We would not feel so greatly in need of debate on the Estimates in this chamber if more policy statements were brought down by Ministers and if we had more general debate on them. 
I agree with my friend, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  when he says that the Standing Orders Committee has disabilities because the people on it are busy doing other things. I sympathise with the Leader of the House, the Minister for Primary Industry, who has to extract himself from dealing with the problems of his office as Minister and to apply himself continually to the management of this House.  His  position is difficult. So I think it is time that we restructured the whole operation. I take it that very shortly the members of the Standing Orders Committee will be able to sit down, to bring their collective monumental intellects to bear on this problem and sort out the situation. Let us hope that it is sorted out by the end of this evening and that we can be in business tomorrow. Under my guidance we might really make some progress. 
I have heard some specious nonsense from the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in my time, but that one beats everything. If legislation committees are not about this kind of legislation, what are they about? The whole objective of the legislation committee was to put the legislation on the table and have it examined, comma by comma, phrase by phrase and clause by clause, and the only way so far in which we have designed to do that is to have it around the table in the way suggested by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  It is true that the actual official count can only include 1 9 members. Is the honourable member for Lilley going to vote against a gag when the 15th or 20th member of this House stands up to speak? How often are that many people able to participate in a debate in this place? How many of the 120-odd members of this House will be able to participate in the Committee stage? 
To have deliberative discussions we need to sit down and discuss matters, just as we do in the case of legislation committees. This is the only way in which we should approach the matter. I thought that the motion moved by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  provided the right procedure to deal with this matter. There ought to be no need to tell this House of the kind of injustices that can be visited upon citizens as a result of the secret security service. As the honourable member for Lilley said today, the recommendations of the security service are not executive instruments, but many of its recommendations to departments and Ministers have the force of administrative power. Such recommendations have affected thousands of people. Hundreds of people have had their naturalisation suspended, held up or denied because of reports from faceless people in the security service. 
I believe we are discussing one of the fundamental issues of democratic society. In this situation I do not believe there is any other way of dealing with the legislation but through a legislation committee. Therefore we ought to support the motion. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  made the point that the House had decided on the matter. The House did not decide. When the House agreed to establish legislation committees it decided that one dissentient voice could prevent a Bill being referred to a legislation committee. That perhaps is fair enough in ordinary circumstances, but it is idiotic to describe one voice as the House. It is true that some of us here might consider ourselves the whole House. The matter can be decided by not even a majority of the House. It takes only a small proportion, perhaps one person, to stop this Bill being referred to a legislation committee. Tonight we are discussing a number of issues but the real one is: Do we want this issue considered in depth, in detail and carefully? 
-Of course it is the question. 
-The right honourable gentleman will have his say, as often as he likes perhaps. The right honourable gentleman can talk his head off because he does not use it for much else. The facts are that we have a very limited chance to participate in debate. In the way we conduct our committees there is very limited opportunity for one to put a point of view- put three or four sentences on an issue- and for somebody else to put the opposing view. If the procedure in committees were changed so that we could have give and take for five, six or seven hours I would be happy to agree to that, but that is not the way the matter will be handled. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The time for the debate has expired. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Scholes's)  be agreed to. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Those of that opinion say aye, of the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
No. 
If my dissent is recorded I will be satisfied. People will know the malevolence that there is in this place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  really wrings my heart. Let us imagine some of the situations in which these adverse reports may be developed about members of the Public Service; for example, people employed in the railways, who strike at a time when they should be carrying a load of military material somewhere. It is not unusual, it has happened. In 1944, when I was returning from defending the north, in Darwin, we could not take the train because there was a strike on. It was not against the defence effort or anything else but against the working conditions at the time. We had to come back from Darwin some other way. In the atmosphere of the times the honourable member for Dundas would have said that was subversion and interfering with the defence effort. Somebody such as he, working for the security service- at the time we did not have a security service of this type to protect us- writes out the details which go in a report somewhere. 
The person working in the system has perhaps never been naturalised. At some stage he puts in his application to be naturalised. When he puts in his application, it is denied for various reasons. So the honourable member for Dundas has a word with the Minister about it. The Minister, being a courteous gentleman in those timeslater on when I discussed a similar matter with him, he had something on- would have said: Well, as a matter of fact, perhaps I should not say this, but he is adversely known'. That is about all there is to it, adversely known. The particular person I am thinking about was not involved in the Darwin matter but in similar activities at another time.  His  naturalisation was held up for many years. As  Mr Justice  Hope said, this creates injustice that can flow on for a lifetime. This subject is one that can be resolved only around the table in discussions, which we were holding last night, about whether we ought to go to a different form of committee discussion on the legislation. 
I would not like to have to sit down and to write a definition of subversion any more than I could of liberty or democracy or any such abstract subjects. I studied this clause. The draftsman has been working hard at trying to cover everything and, in so doing, one might say he covers nothing. There are very few activities that honourable members could indulge in politically that could not be covered under clause 5 (a). Remember that in dealing with politics one deals with the nuances of politics, but there are people involved in defining these clauses who are committed perhaps one way or another and living a life of isolation. In many respects that legislation prevents the people who are involved in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation from being a general part of the community. It is unlikely that its members belong to the Australian Labor Party. It is unlikely that they attend, as a normal thing, the ordinary meetings at which trade unionists are involved, or even people involved in various other activities in the community. 
My impression is that the security service becomes an increasingly isolated life in which an evaluation is likely to be made out of that background. In all these matters, the atmosphere of the day could change dramatically so that we could have a totally different view of the meaning of subversion, and the people making the judgments would have totally different views. This does create great difficulties. So anything can be obstructing the defence forces. If there is a petrol strike or the people who are supposed to be handling the petrol at Fairbairn Air Force Base stop the RAAF taking off after a few days, they would be obstructing the Defence Force. People such as myself, who took part in the demonstrations and who gave the encouragement to people not to register during the Vietnam conflict, would be obstructing the development of the Defence Force because we discouraged people from joining up. 
I will try to simplify it-I withdraw that because I know the honourable gentleman is making an effort to see what it is all about, looked at from my point of view. I have lived through one of the most turbulent times in Australian political history. 
-A good deal of it, yes, and brought it to a satisfactory conclusion; we removed you lot from office in 1972. When I first became involved in politics, the Communist Party Dissolution Bill was one of the principal factors in public discussion. Nearly everybody, even people who just gave out tickets for the Labor Party at the referendum, were being dubbed as communists and so on. Communists, by definition, were people who were against the defence of the Commonwealth. People were being judged in an atmosphere which, to most of us here now, seems so foreign and alien that it is hard to believe. But it could occur again. 
I think we have embarked upon an almost impossible task to attempt to define subversion in this way. Most of the people involved in making these judgments are people isolated from the community in many respects. They are making judgments probably from fixations and obsessions and prejudices of their own- as we all must- and then they are recorded somewhere. It is true it is not an executive instrument, as I think I heard the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  say in the course of the debate, but insofar as it helps in the construction of administrative judgments it is a very powerful instrument for injustice. I think this clause sets out on an impossible task. I do not think one can define subversion. I think one can define particular acts and that is the best one can do. We have the Crimes Act, the Defence Act and probably other areas where these matters are defined. 
As mentioned in clause 5, activities directed to promoting violence or hatred between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth, can include a lot of people- all the Government members who have attacked me so vigorously in the past, and so on. Sometimes I may even have defined them in a similar way. I make the point that these are not facts in the strict sense of judgments about people's attitudes and behaviour which cannot be defined. 
In ASIO, which we are not just creating but strengthening in its own work rather than in the nation's work, we are likely to be marching down a path that will perpetuate injustices and probably compound them. I do not know that the Australian community needs that kind of definition. I think there must be better ways of doing it. 
I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that this provision needs reconsideration. I do not believe we can give it consideration in this sort of give and take. There must be some way in which we can all sit around and finally put on the statute books exactly what we mean, if the majority of people think we need to have it defined this way. I do not happen to agree that we need to do it. I know that Australian society has changed in the past 30 years. It is a substantially different society in its ethnic background from what it was, but it is one of the few countries in the world that, in the strict sense, has never had a traitor. We have never had to shoot anybody for betraying us. On many occasions people have been accused of having done that but we have never had to shoot them. We have never had to shoot any soldiers. Under the circumstances, we are dealing with a society that is different from most others. ASIO itself was created out of a particular problem at a particular time in the late 1940s. I am not too sure that the legislation and the actual apparatus that we are considering here has not become an anachronism. Perhaps we need to take a fresh look at the whole situation. 
I want to promulgate an idea which will be regarded as a major heresy. In fact, it may well be regarded as subversive under the terms of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill which we are discussing. 
Yes, that is right. The problem that I see is that when we start on the Estimates we look at history. We sit there and drag information out of people and make an input of some sort, but that is about all that we will do. The time is long past, I think, when the Parliament had some input into the construction of the Estimates. I do not regard that statement as heresy, as do some of my more progressive colleagues. For instance, there are thousands of people scattered throughout the Australian Public Service who for a number of months before the final construction of the Budget have had their input. They draw up the estimates for their little section and it is sent through the system. Their estimates are analysed at departmental and various other levels. Some of those people have been elected to this Parliament although 1 am not one of them, of course. When they are elected to this Parliament they are not allowed to take part in any sort of discussion like that. I do not think it would be difficult at an early stage in the consideration of the Estimates to have the apparatus of departments and Ministers placed at the disposal of the Parliament so that some ideas can be put into the Estimates from the electorates which we represent. This is a collective responsibility which we have. 
Of course the final decision about the actual priorities could well be left to the departments and the Ministers. I can see no real difficulties in that sort of system at all. I hope that each of us has a more intimate knowledge of problems of the communities which we represent than even the most gifted person in the Public Service or even the most gifted, wise, omniscient and omnipotent Ministers such as those who are sitting at the table. I therefore hope that we will eventually get around to that sort of approach. Perhaps the Ministers at the table had better agree to that now so that when they are on this side of the House again- they would both be in serious danger at an election- they will be able to take part in Estimates committees instead of being on the outer. 1 thank honourable members opposite who took the matter up and who have managed to persuade the fairly difficult and incorrigible people on the other side of the House with whom we have to deal at times, for making this possible. They have succeeded.  Mr Speaker,  while I think that sometimes you might be a bit rough on us when it comes to our expressing a point of view, you rapidly called the Standing Orders Committee together. The firm hand you applied to the meeting yesterday has made something happen in 24 hours which has taken about 24 years in gestation. Of course this makes elephants look pretty spritely. 
-The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  confirmed our worst fears. The moment we come to some form of definition of what we mean here he turns to the Australian Labor Party's policy and actions of the trade union movement. I suppose that in a sense some of the matters we quoted invite that. But this shows exactly how the Government will go step by step until it has removed all sorts of protections from people. 
It was not. As the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  put it, we should. at least be paid respect. We have been around for a long while and we have been through much of this activity. Do not let us fool ourselves. I have lived close enough to it. I have had brought to my notice in my time things which I regarded as very dangerous to the rights of individuals and their future. These things can flow only from the system that we have developed. 
Two aspects are involved. One is the law. The other is the collection of information. I expect that in general none of us is against the collection of information. We do not need to send out spooks to see what is happening in a trade union movement. We can telephone somebody after a meeting to ask who said what about which. On a number of occasions I have met people outside meetings and have said that they could either enter the meeting or be supplied with a list of those attending. We were not ashamed. But that is easy. If somebody driving a train goes on strike the facts are easy to determine. We are concerned about reports on individuals and information that ends up on dossiers and files which may be considered when people apply for jobs in the Commonwealth Public Service or are considered for promotion somewhere in the system. A person's report may indicate that he once behaved in a subversive fashion. I do not think it is possible to define the sort of things we are talking about in the way proposed. The Opposition is totally dissatisfied about the protection of the rights of individuals under this Bill. 
The legislation provides for the collection of information and I am not sure that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is the best body to do that. There have been instances of people undergoing military training in forests somewhere. Apparently that has gone on for some time before being detected. We have only to look at what is happening in the rest of the world to see the difficulty of the problem. The point I am making is that it is easy to go beyond the limits of tolerance in these matters and to take action in respect of the activities of people with whom we disagree substantially on some political basis. A person may be involved in a major confrontation in the community. Ten years later after the confrontation has subsided his involvement is still noted on his dossier. That is the element of danger. There is no way that this situation can be corrected under this legislation. There must be a better way of meeting the situation. 
I hope that as a result of these Estimates committees we will get a bit closer to the government of the country than is ordinarily the case with honourable members of this Parliament. This Parliament is the executive instrument of the Australian people. The Ministers are simply the agents of the Parliament in carrying out its will and the departments are the arm of the Ministers' and therefore of the Parliament itself. It is extraordinarily difficult for honourable members of this Parliament to get close enough to the machinery and complexity of government to find out how it is operating. That is difficult enough. But to exercise some influence upon the way it is operating is almost impossible inside the present system. That has been the burden of complaints of honourable members here this evening. 
I hope that the Government in which I was a Minister took some steps to allow the Parliament and parliamentarians to take part in the government of the country. I was instrumental at that time in the establishment of the Aboriginal Affairs Standing Committee. On several aspects of that Committee I appointed honourable members of the Parliament to positions of executive authority. For instance  Senator Bonner  is still, I think, on the section of that Committee relating to Aboriginal hostels. I think that is an area of action available to honourable members which is totally ignored. I am a member of the Council of the National Library of Australia. Other members of the Parliament are members of the Council of the National University and of the Institute of Aboriginal Studies. In respect of the long debate about the statutory authorities, it is my belief that the country would be advantaged if members were appointed to the boards of all of them so that there was some executive action. 
As I have found over many years in this place, when it gets down to administrative action there are not that many differences between us. We might be right wing or left wing, reactionary or progressive, but when it comes to making a decision about carrying out an administrative act in this way or that way, honourable members will find that there is ordinary agreement. I believe that we have sold out and abdicated our responsibilities to the country by ignoring the talent that  lies within this Parliament. This Parliament is a sort of committee of wasted talent. There are 27 members who are Ministers. There are a number of executive officers of the Parliament in one way or another. In many respects many of us may as well stay at home. That is the first point. 
This evening many honourable members have said that the Public Service is running Australia. Indeed, that is a complaint or a statement that applies in many parts of the world. Why is that so? It is obvious enough. The complexity and scope of government are such that it is impossible for a handful of people whom we charge with the task to run the country. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  who was sitting here a moment ago is a man of great capacity. In fact, at times, I think he is capable of almost anything. He cannot possibly control and conduct all the affairs of the Department of Defence on his own. I refer honourable members to the system that applies in Britain where there is a team of Ministers applying themselves to some of these tasks. I spoke only a week back to the former Minister for Social Security in Britain, the Right Honourable Stan Orme. There had been, I think, a team of five involved. He said that, of course, they are still tentative about the way it works. Sometimes the senior Ministers, the Secretaries of State, ignore the rest of the Ministers, but in some instances they work as a team. I think we, in this Parliament, have to start to do something about it. 
One can only make a few notes and a few comments tonight. The House of Representatives is probably the most vulnerable legislativeinstrument in the free world. It may be dissolved at the whim of the Governor-General. It may be dissolved at the whim of the Prime Minister. It may be strangled or whatever at the fancy of the Senate. It is impossible to govern a country in this way. It is absolute nonsense for us to allow it to continue. So apart from the referendum requirements of changing the relationship between the two Houses we have to do something about the supremacy of Parliament. There ought to be a Supremacy of Parliament Act. It ought to include, in the first instance, three provisions. The Parliament ought not to be dissolved except by its own motion or the effluxion of time. If a motion is put through Parliament that the Parliament should be dissolved, that should be it. Otherwise the Parliament should run its time before there is an election. 
I think it is absolutely ludicrous that one person can go to the Governor-General and ask that Parliament be dissolved- honourable members of this Parliament have been placed here by the vote of some six million people- and it is idiotic, a danger and a threat to the whole institution. On the other hand we have the appointment of Ministers. On 11 November 1975 I was removed from office by  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral at the time,  Sir John  Kerr. He apparently chose to think that he no longer required my advice. In fact, he did not ask for it. I was removed from office, as I understand it, at 1 p.m. I did not know that that had happened. I think that at 2.24 p.m. the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the present Prime Minister, stood up and said that he was now the Prime Minister. I was dumbfounded. The Parliament then carried a motion of no confidence in him and he took no notice. 
-That is right; why should he? The honourable member would not expect the Prime Minister to understand the precedents of Parliament and what it is all about. 
-Because I was a voting member in this Parliament and I had a lot more votes than had the honourable member for Diamond Valley. The honourable member is a very insecure member of this Parliament, and while he is here he might as well make the most of it. The facts are that this Parliament passed a motion of no confidence in those caretaker Ministers. None of them, if they had been men of faith in the parliamentary system, would have accepted office. But that is not the point I want to make. The Supremacy of Parliament Act ought to require that Ministers shall have the confidence of the House of Representatives. Another matter follows from that. On the day on which that occurred, almost immediately the Public Service transferred its allegiance from the former Ministers to the newly-appointed caretaker Ministers. We are all brought up in the tradition of doing what we ought to do in these circumstances. It ought to be required that the Public Service will not take notice of instructions from Ministers who do not carry the authority of this Parliament. 
The matters I raise are the answerability of public servants, the appointment of Ministers and the actual protection of this Parliament against the whims of dissolution. I put those points forward to honourable members and suggest that they should examine them for the protection of the institution of parliament, not for any of us for the time being. As has been pointed out to me by recent events, our passage through this Parliament is terminal. We all have a terminal appointment and we are not going to be here forever. Therefore, during our passage through this Parliament we ought to secure the institution itself, insofar as it is possible to do so, against the whims of fate and the temporary aberrations of people who might be in charge. The great challenge of these times for a democratic society such as ours is the challenge to democratic institutions. We are assailed by the media which is normally in most countries, not just here but elsewhere, in the hands of people who find the existence of free institutions inimical to their interests. There are great institutions in the country which try to change it, subvert it, persuade it or hinder it. There are great forces, both commercial and private, attempting to do that. These institutions stand as the protection of the people and their freedom and they have the responsibility to carry the people's aspirations into political action. We have to find better ways of doing it. 
We have very little access to the decisionmaking apparatus. The Minister has his staff and his department and we are way out on the edge. Way down in the departments quite junior members of the Service will have a certain amount of influence upon the Estimates. I suggest to honourable members that we give thought in considering the Estimates situation to looking at them not just as a piece of history, and getting a stack of people in here and asking them: 'Why did you do that?' or 'What is that for?'. Instead of that, Ministers, such as my friend, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who always pays a great deal of attention to us, at the beginning of the next budgetary year should bring their estimates before the Estimates committees and say: 'This is what we propose to do.' If they did that, those of us who had matters we wanted to raise could have some chance of making an input. I can see no difficulties in that whatsoever. There are a great number of administrative questions that can be resolved by mutual agreement between us. For example, I refer to questions of migration, education and so on. They are not party political matters. The issues can be put before the Ministers and floated into the system in that way. There is an enormous amount of work to be done to make this Parliament- the product of nearly 1,000 years of parliamentary government- even more effective in the way that it is going to govern the country. Today is United Nations Day. I congratulate the Minister. I understand that he has the flag of the United Nations flying on Capital Hill. I hope that before this debate closes one has a chance to say a few words on foreign affairs and about the United Nations. 
I note that this House is not meeting at the normal meeting time on that Tuesday. I take it that this is because of a certain horse race that is conducted in the premier city of Australia. This illustrates a strange set of priorities. This House of some 120-odd people, some of them very odd, proposes to wait for three-quarters of an hour or thereabouts while people watch a team of horses flogged around a race track in Melbourne. People can go out into the party rooms and watch it on television. We can arrange for an historical record on video tape. We can even have the race shown on the wall of this chamber instead of watching the corrupt charade of Question Time. Question Time is corrupted sometimes because of the behaviour of some of the honourable members opposite. 
I suppose that there is something symbolic about this Parliament waiting for a horse race to finish. I do not know how many horses will be in the race. Perhaps there will be 27 horses; which is something like the number in the Ministry. They will be galloping round a circular race track, going like the devil, being flogged and cheered down the last straight, madly competitive, running around in circles and getting nowhere. I can think of no more symbolic comparison to make with this Government. Perhaps I ought not to raise too much objection. We sit here day after day being gagged by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  in the course of his duty as a party hack for the Government. We complain bitterly that we cannot get any time to debate matters, yet we have time to delay the proceedings of the Parliament while people go outside the chamber to look at a horse race. I reckon that it is time we started to get our priorities straight. I think that the horse is a noble animal. I do not mind them galloping around race tracks. I think that they make a splendid spectacle on the screen. I believe that the technical achievement of televising the race is - 
I have done that in the past, of course. I do not even know why we bother to delay the meeting time because honourable members are not in the House very often. As I said, I believe that there is something symbolic about this motion. The horses will not be getting anywhere; the race is competitive, it is speculative, it is non-productive and there could be no better comparison made than between it and this Government. 
-I would like to make a few points because this is a fairly critical debate. As the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has pointed out, for the first time the Government has taken a Remuneration Tribunal report and changed some of its substance by legislation. One of the depressing features of the deliberations of the Tribunal is the creation of a continual discrimination, one might say, between members of this Parliament. We are elected as a Parliament of equals. Insofar as we represent people, the honourable member for Wills represents people in the same sense as does the right honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and he ought to have at his disposal the same resources as the right honourable member for Wannon to carry matters into substantive action. I exclude from that the positions people hold in an executive capacity as Ministers conducting the affairs of this country. 
Looking at what is happening with the Tribunal, we find that there is increasing disparity in the resources available to members simply as members. I might define this as a son of new feudalism. It starts at the top with the Prime Minister, who we might say is the king of the kingdom, and goes down through the various parts of the hierarchy, until it comes to the serfs at the bottom, which includes some of the people I see around me- my colleague from Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  my colleague from Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  and so on, who have no extra resources whatsoever. We are on the base rate, and I want to say something about that. At the moment there are people in this place who get special resources because they are Ministers. There are people who get special resources because of their positions in the Opposition. There are the  Speaker,  the  deputy  speakers, the chairmen and  deputy  chairmen of committees, and so on. There are the Whips, and then there are the people who get special resources because of the area of their electorate. If it is of a certain size they get money for charter flights and so on. A senator gets money for charter flights to enable him to move around the country. The  chairman  of one of the standing committees has some special facilities and resources available to him. If a member is on the front bench of the Labor Party some special resources are made available to him. These include such matters as staff, travel rights, allowances and, in the case of Whips and Ministers, for example, postage. 
We all do the same job. I sit or stand, whatever one does, on *he Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and I work pretty hard at the job. Wherever I am needed I go. If I go as a member of the sub-committee I get my travelling allowance. If I have to go independently to do something for the Committee, I go. 
-That is right. I am in the ludicrous position now where, when I go with one of my colleagues from this side of the House to the Kangaroo III exercise, for example, because my colleague is on the front bench he will get travelling allowance; I will not. I have been in that position in various instances. That is the point I wish to make. There is also a question of staff. I happen to represent one of the larger electorates in terms of population. 
-We do it very well, of course. Some seven or eight electorates have populations of over 120,000, of which Wills is one. Others are Melbourne, Hotham, Werriwa, Sydney, Prospect, Dundas and so on. 
-And Lalor. If the people in those areas were not people but sandhills somewhere in the bush, the member would get an extra allowance for travelling and perhaps an electoral allowance. In my own case, there is no way in which I can maintain one of my staff members here in Canberra and so neglect the needs of the people of Wills. Time after time the Tribunal has said that there ought to be staff in Canberra. It has become a bit lukewarm on that issue lately, but I think it is a must. There is no way in which we can keep in front of the administrative requirements. With some of my colleagues I have had a look at West Block, I think it was, and the Kurrajong, and there is tons of space. I suggest that the Minister now take the opportunity not only not to leave this Tribunal but also to get a group of members together to see exactly what we need in these areas. As to salaries and so on, I leave that to the people who determine them. I do believe that the resources available to members have to be upgraded if we are to compete successfully in a society which is becoming increasingly complex, otherwise this Parliament will become increasingly irrelevant. 
-I would like to support my colleague the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  Nobody in public positions such as ours could feel anything but regret that governments are changed by assassination, violence and all that flows from it. One of the tragedies for  the people of Korea, of course, is that assassination such as this may not end there. I deeply regret this kind of event happening anywhere in the world. I do think it is time that we applied ourselves more vigorously to encouraging the removal of those matters which have created the situation in which such events occur. I would like to express my concern that while we pay these respects this afternoon to President Park one of the greatest leaders of independent Africa, as one might call it, who died some time back- Jomo Kenyatta- was not acknowledged in this way. I hope that the Government, in paying its respects in these matters, will start to get its priorities straight. 
-The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  ignores the fact that no white community in Australia is living under the same housing conditions as the people of Yarrabah, who are living on one of the more delightful parts of the Australian coast. All sorts of factors are involved. For instance, the Marine Board dredging destroyed the community's beach. Nothing is being done to continue the road, which was taken by the Mulgrave Shire, to the gate of the community through the township itself. I appeal to the House and to the people involved to start to apply to the Aboriginal communities in Australia the same standards and attitudes as they apply to every other part of Australia. Until we do that we cannot stand in this House and pat ourselves on the back. We have a duty to the Aboriginal people, something which we have managed to ignore almost completely for the last 12 years or so since we passed the referendum. There will be no security for the Aboriginal people of Yarrabah until we have taken steps to secure their land for them - 
-Against the wishes of such people as the honourable member for Bendigo, who restrains this House - 
That the business of the day be called on. 
-The honourable member for Bendigo is a fine example, is he not? 
I ask a question of the Deputy Prime Minister. It refers to the refugees from Kampuchea in Thailand. Is it a fact that over 100,000 people have found refuge in Thailand from the war in Kampuchea, placing an intolerable burden upon Thailand? Will he see what steps can be taken to take some of the pressure off Thailand and to relieve the hardship of the people of Kampuchea? Will he even consider offering some kind of temporary refuge in Australia for those unhappy people? I would remind him that during the term of office of the Labor Government we were able to evacuate 30,000 people from Darwin in four or five days across the same distance- about 2,000 miles. The fact of the situation is that the neighbours of these people have to carry all the burden while the rest of the world sits by. We ought to be able to make some concrete and positive gesture to help the Government of Thailand and, in particular, the people of Kampuchea. 
It would not be a bad idea if we started with some equal rights in this House. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  spoke for  23lA  minutes and we are reduced in our speaking time. Of course, now we are being pressured to reduce the time for this debate after we took off threequarters of an hour yesterday to watch a horse race. I belong to the school of thought that it does not matter how big the others are and how small we are; our duties are quite clear. Human rights everywhere are important; it is the duty and obligation of free people everywhere to uphold them. That is where I stand. I recognise the limitations upon the Sub-Committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Its members were not able to travel, but we may be able to overcome that. However, there are many things we have to do without carrying out examinations at first hand. 
I regard myself as a friend of the Soviet £ Union. It has been on Australia 's side in great wars twice in my lifetime. I am depressed that suspicion of the Soviet Union has increased over the last few years, and likewise Soviet Union suspicion of the rest of the world, particularly the West, has also increased. But, one would have to be blind to not recognise that inside the Soviet Union there are great deprivations of human rights. I think that it is our duty to say so to our friends and to others. I guess that the Soviets are strong enough to be able to stand that. There has been a great debate on this. There was great uneasiness within the Committee as to whether it should proceed. My own belief is that we should seek the truth wherever it is- like Ulysses, to strive, to seek, to find and not to yield. That is the principle I bring to my politics and I wish that that were the principle that this Parliament brought to its politics. 
Some questions have been raised in this House by my friends about other matters that have not been examined. We ought to turn our attention to them. The report includes a great deal of valuable information. Much of it is not readily available; a great deal of it is simply facts which are useful to all people concerned with the study of international affairs. I come to the point of what is Australia's duty in these matters. First of all, why pick the Soviet Union? It just happened to be one of the great issues of the time, a topical issue in international affairs. One has to say that the Soviet Union is powerful, influential and stable. It is a secure society. Having been there, I can say quite emphatically that one feels safe and secure wherever one travels in the Soviet Union. If a person were to walk out of a railway carriage leaving his cameras and possessions in the carriage, he could be fairly confident that they would still be there when he came back. The Soviet Union now has some of the problems of the rest of the world in regard to these matters but, it does have freedoms. So far as one can tell, the people of the Soviet Union are free of the real poverty that inflicts a great number of other societies. 
However, it is obvious to honourable members on both sides of the Parliament, having come from the kind of society in which we live, that there are other freedoms which often transcend that, including the freedom to be free. That is obviously not the case in the Soviet Union. There is no doubt that the situation has improved over the last few years. What about the other countries of the world? I take up the issue of where do we go from here. I support the suggestion in paragraph 65 of the report that there should be a continuing committee of inquiry. Why? Because in this world of 4,000 million people and 151 member nations of the United Nations, with another 20 or 30 nations which are not members, not more than 20 of them can claim to be free societies. There are strict limitations even in a good number of those 20 countries. No matter what we think about our own country, it is one of the more free countries. But, there are still serious deficiencies here. I am not one of those who would say, if the United Nations or any other body decided to take a look at Australia, that it would not be welcome. Sometimes the motes in our own eyes stop us seeing things properly. For instance, I believe the situation of the Aboriginal people in Queensland would not be harmed by it being as widely known or as closely examined by objective non-Australian viewers as possible. 
Is Australia vulnerable? I think that we do have points of deprivation in Australia but they are mostly known if we care to look deeply enough. I take up the question of noninterference in the affairs of other countries. That notion should have gone out in an earlier generation along with button-up boots. As I said earlier, in my view the rights of humanity transcend the rights of sovereignty. Of course, the rest of the world accepts that. There is a lot of tongue .in cheek talk about this. Last year I attended the four months of meeting of the United Nations General Assembly. There were consistent attacks upon countries, one by the other. Nobody bothered much about the rights of, say, the people of Israel to be free of that sort of criticism. They were under constant attack but there was an official inquiry by the United Nations into human rights in Chile. The report is a thick document. We accepted the right and duty of the United Nations to do that. The Chilean Government, which I think would be much worse than that of the Soviet Union, permitted the inquiry to go ahead. 
The attention of the whole world is turning to South Africa and to the question of racism. Racism is one of the more dreadful deprivations of human rights. But, it is only one. If we are prepared to examine that thoroughly then we ought to be prepared to examine the deprivation of human rights wherever it occurs. Many people have strong views about the situation inside Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, most of them without having been near the place. I think that is correct, too. There cannot be one rule for one lot of countries and another rule for the rest. Therefore, I think that it was right and proper for the committee of inquiry to proceed. I could suggest a couple more inquiries on which we could start immediately. Right on our doorstep we have the question of Indonesia. What is the situation there? I think that human rights are very low on the scale of priorities of the Government of Indonesia. One could list all the countries in this regard. We would be doing a great duty for humanity if we used the power, persuasion and influence of this country to try to examine these matters and broadcast them abroad. In one way, this is being done by independent organisations such as Amnesty International. There are also organisations such as Freedom House in the United States- I am not sure about its objectivity but it produces a lot of information about publicising these matters- the International Commission of Jurists, and so on. We have a duty to the rest of the world and we have to accept it. 
I wish to remind the House of these facts. I am sorry if I am depriving other honourable members of speaking time but I have been speaking for seven minutes after sitting around for hours waiting to take my chance. Let me give honourable members a good example; Britain is a small country. At the beginning of the last century it had a population of 12 million or 13 million people. It abolished slavery. Not only did Britain abolish slavery; it also paid a very handsome compensation- something over f 100m at the time. Subsequently, it put its fleets onto the seas of the world to try to stop the slave trade no matter what the rest of the world did. It was one of the great gestures of history. I am not suggesting that we become as dramatic as that but it would not hurt us to get into' the international arena and point out wherever human rights are being trampled on, and try to use whatever influence we have with the people with whom we deal to have those rights restored to suffering humanity. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
-Here we go again. The Government has had unlimited opportunities for the Parliament to meet. It stopped proceedings so that it could carry on with its gambling proclivities. It conducts the House like a third-rate progress association and now it is going to break the rules that we established some five or six years ago. 
-That is right. The trouble is they always come back. I want to voice my protest. Over the years we have established the principle that we stop at 11 o'clock. We organised the place so that we could adjourn at 10.30 p.m., so that people could go home at a reasonable hour and so that the place could be conducted with some semblance of order. Now we are getting back to old habits again. There is absolutely no excuse on the Government's behalf. We have met for 136 days since the election was held a couple of years ago. Out of 730-odd days we have met for only 136 days. I know that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  is interested in these matters because he never takes any part in any of the debates. 
On the other hand, in many respects this has been what one might call a red letter day, or some sort of day, as the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  has actually made a speech instead of just standing up and gagging everybody else. I will overlook the fact that the speech was irrelevant to all the subjects under debate, and that it was simply a diatribe against the Opposition and that he made statements that were quite wrong because I think it is good to know that he actually can stand up and make a speech. However, I hope that we on this side of the House, instead of surrendering to this proposition in the future, will start to make a proper display of our anger and indignation at the way the Government runs this place. One of the things that members of this Parliament ought not to do is to allow the place to be used as the private property of the people opposite. 
