Has the PostmasterGeneral seen the many letters in the daily Press from correspondents who, having heard modern hi-fidelity radio reception overseas free of noise and static, are now calling for the provision of frequency modulation broadcasting in Australia, strongly supported by the top executives of the Australian radio and electronics industries? For how much longer can listeners be denied the sound quality that is now heard only by the operators in the station control rooms before it is distorted in the course of reception? Will the Postmaster-General revive the plans of 1954 to establish frequency modulation transmitters at each national television station and so enable Australians to enjoy the latest overseas standards, including the advantages of stereo sound? 
I would not speak merely for the purpose of stonewalling but I have been provoked into saying a few words by the various comments that have been made about the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. Since November I have had the privilege of being  Chairman  of that Committee which has done a lot of work that has not been appreciated very much by the people who watch us. They say that all we are doing is going about having a look at things and not getting any results, but I should like to assure the House that in the previous 12 months when the former member for St George,  Mr Bosman,  was  Chairman  of the Committee, the Committee visited every major airport in Australia, with the exception of Darwin, and examined the problems there. The Committee visited Darwin in February. The former Committee made suggestions which have resulted in the adoption of procedures by the airline companies which have mitigated the great annoyance that many people have had inflicted on them by the new method of transport - jet aircraft. One must have a lot of sympathy for the people residing near the Kingsford-Smith Airport who have to listen to the noise of these aircraft. People in the municipality of Rockdale have to put up with the noise that is inflicted on them by this modern progression in transport which brings them great benefits but which they do not really appreciate because it impinges on their way of life. 
As a result of the deliberations of the Committee and the thought that has been given to this problem for many years by the Department of Civil Aviation and the airline companies themselves who are very conscious of it, in April of last year many new procedures were adopted in Sydney. These have had the effect of lessening the impact of the noise on people living under the flight path of the 07 runway of the Sydney Airport. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  expressed concern about the noise of aircraft using the north south runway which is pointed in the direction of the electorate of Bradfield. There is a control point, shall we call it, at Pymble where aircraft take their bearing to come in on the flight path of the north south runway for landing purposes, but more than 70% of the take-offs from that runway are in the opposite direction. I am distressed to find how poorly informed the honourable member for Bradfield is on this subject. I take some of the blame for this myself. As a Committee we should have, given more thought to informing people-^ members of this House and the public as well - of what we have been able to achieve in respect of the noises that are inevitable if we are going to have the progressive form of transport that has been made possible by the invention of the jet aeroplane. The previous Committee has done a very good job to improve the position of people in the affected areas. 
In moving this amendment the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has really only engaged in an exercise which is designed to cause some trouble to the Government. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is in charge of this discussion, has explained quite clearly to the House that this Committee was created to try to do something about the noise problem around airports. We are very conscious of the need to do this. Australia has taken a major role in the world and has given a lead in discussing the problem of noise around airports. I like that way of expressing it rather than saying merely 'aircraft noise'. The procedures already taken have been to the advantage of many people. 
All I want to say is that, having been given the very definite task of finding out how much nuisance there is, we have done much to effect some diminution of the noise problem of people who live around aerodomes. I speak particularly of the Kingsford-Smith Aerodrome. I know that it was in the mind of the Opposition when this amendment was moved. However, to accept the amendment would be a very great embarrassment to the Committee in the performance of the task it has been given. It would extend the work of the Committee, in my judgment, for at least 2 years. I have had the benefit also of having been a member of the Public Works Committee. When the development of the Melbourne and Sydney international aerodromes was being discussed, we went thoroughly into the possibility of using other sites. Even if other members of the Aircraft Noise Committee do not know, I know that the Department of Civil Aviation has done a very large amount of work on this aspect. I have seen the maps and the diagrams. I am sure that if the House knew the amount of work that has been done, an amendment such as this would not be accepted. 
Motion (by  Mr Kirwan)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for McMillan be not further heard. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the words proposedto be added  (Mr Charles Jones's amendment)  be so added. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister ask the Australian Dairy Produce Board to disclose the actual selling prices and thu costs of manufacture, selling and shipping of all dairy products - I refer specifically to butter-oil, ghee, milk powders, casein co-precipitate and butter - in Asian markets including reconstitution plants, so that producers can work out whether the Board is misleading them about conditions in the export trade and come to an appreciation of the need to reduce production in those items being sold at what the Minister has called give away prices? 
I refer the PostmasterGeneral to my question of 5th March in which 1 asked how much longer listeners to Australian radio are to be denied the quality of sound that they could have by the introduction of frequency modulation broadcasting. Has the Minister seen the open letter addressed to him in the Australian' which gave certain facts indicating that frequency modulation would enable the Postmaster-General's Department to overcome some of the problems that it is not able to overcome with amplitude modulation? Is he aware that frequency modulation stations in America get higher ratings than stations operating on amplitude modulation and that serious proposals are being made for the abolition of amplitude modulation radio? Will the Postmaster-General now revise his answer and instruct the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to make a re-assessment of the possible advantages to the listening public of the introduction of frequency modulation in Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry whom I commend on the extremely useful answer which he gave to a question asked earlier on the position of the dairy industry. Will he use the utmost of his powers to bring together the two organisations which are squabbling over what sort of plan should be put into operation to reduce the production of butter fat? If necessary, will he knock their heads together and get them around a table so that .they may come up with a plan which can be adopted by the Government? 
 I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
Thai the Dentists Registration Ordinance 1970, being ordinance No. I of 1970 made under the Seat of Government Administration Act 1910-1965 be disallowed; and 
That regulation 2 of the amendments of the Public Health, Medical and Dental Inspection of School Children Regulations as contained in the Australian Capital Territory Regulations 1970, No. 2, made under the Public Health Act 1928-1966 be disallowed. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, we have had this afternoon a clear example of the intention of the Opposition to waste the time of the House by raising for discussion a matter of public importance and then not talking about that matter. I will bring the discussion back to the subject. The words the Opposition has used are these: 
The grave financial needs of Australian public hospital services and the failure of the Federal Government to respond to this need in spite of the recommendations of the Nimmo report 12 months ago. 
This shows two things. First of all it shows that Opposition members have no idea really how the hospitals of this country are organised. Secondly, they have no idea of the method of the financing of the hospitals. The Nimmo report had nothing to say to us on this aspect except to ask the Commonwealth and the States to co-operate in working out improvements, which are always possible, in the hospital system that we have. I will come back to that a little later. 
Two honourable members from Queensland spoke in this debate. One of them made great play of the fact that Queensland considers it has been badly treated because it does not receive the $2 a day that is paid by the Commonwealth for insured patients. The Nimmo Committee recommended that this amount should be paid. The honourable member said that it could be clone straight away. Of course it could be done straight away; but would it be right to do it straight away? Would it be right to give Queensland some compensations for all along having thrown a spanner in the works of the health scheme of this country by not joining the Commonwealth in an endeavour to provide this country with a really workable hospital and medical scheme - a total health scheme - which will give the people of Australia the service that we believe they deserve? I have repeatedly claimed in this House that this is the best system in the world, and it remains the best system in the world. I do not mean by this that it is perfect. The medical side was improved by the Bill that was introduced by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  only yesterday. The problems on the medical side are much more urgent than are the undoubted hospital problems. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who raised this matter, made a point of saying that the States are in an impossible situation, that they have reached the stage where they are about to snap, and that hospitals are one of the key points. He then went on to refer to other matters. He mentioned New South Wales. In relation  to Queensland  he said that the nonpaying public wards had serious shortcomings. We have just heard the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  say that Queensland has no problems because of a system that was introduced by a 
Labor Government some years ago and is still in operation. I will now quote from a newspaper, although certainly it is a couple of years old. One of the experts writing about public hospitals said: 
The Queensland hospital system is unique.  There  is no clamour for reform, no lini-.ni.ial muddle to be unravelled every year or so and then hastily forgotten . . . 
The reason for this sublime state of affairs is simple: hospital treatment in Queensland is free, and has been since 1946 when the Labor  Government  in power introduced the present system. 
Vet the honourable member who raised this matter said that the Queensland system has serious shortcomings and he asked for something to be done about it on an overall scale. Another honourable member from Queensland wants another $2m a year to bolster up a scheme that  is not  giving the people of Queensland anything like the service that is given to people in other States. 
I refute completely the implication in this matter of public importance that any Cust could possibly be made to criticise what the Commonwealth Government is doing. The responsibility for handling the hospital side of the health scheme is inherently and inevitably in the province of the States. The States provide approximately 50% of the actual running costs of the hospital system. In Victoria and New South Wales the figure could be slightly less; in some of the other States it is slightly more, The Commonwealth has the responsibility of seeing that the people have the opportunity to get the best service from hospitals that we can provide. This point was made very strongly by the Minister for Health, who is extremely conscious of the whole situation. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  said that the system in Sweden is better than ours. Possibly some hospitals are better but. taken overall, I prefer the Australian system, which is bared on a contributory scheme.- It can still be improved and it will be improved when the Minister introduces legislation to give effect to the other half of the recommendations in the Nimmo report. What the Minister has in mind is his responsibility to carry out the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  first of all when he  wah  elected to that office and later in various speeches, including policy speeches, that the Government intends .to . see. to it that the best possible health service is provided for the people who are in need. This is being done. We are providing the opportunity for people to set aside something out of their earnings towards hospital costs. Everybody is subject to illness and may have to seek hospital or medical treatment. Surely it is up to us to supply some of the costs out of our own pockets. The Labor Party would put it on a taxation basis and everybody would think it was free. But anything that is free becomes worthless, and that is what would happen under Labor's administration of a scheme which nobody regarded as having any responsible backing. But if people are paying their way and are being helped considerably by enormous amounts contributed by the Commonwealth Government, the scheme has far more chance of success. I remind the House that in the great majority of health benefit tables a refund is made of the total amount of the hospital bill. Some ancillary charges may have to be paid that- are perhaps not part of the hospital bill. A lot of people are in the habit of over insuring themselves to cover these extra charges. The opportunity to do so is there if they want it. 
It is only now that measures- are being provided to enable people on the lower income scale to have their hospitalisation and medical treatment handled by the health benefits . organisations, which is the best way of handling it. And it will cost them nothing. The proposal before the House implies that, the Federal Government has failed to respond to the needs of these people. The Federal Government has gone out of its way to carry out the promise given by the Prime Minister. This side of the House thoroughly supports the Minister for Health in trying to shape a very much better scheme for the people than they now have. I maintain, and will continue to maintain, that the system that we have at present is so good that anybody who would look to the Socialist health schemes of England and Canada as a means of improving it just does not understand the interpretation of the individualistic spirit of the Australian people. 
The discussion is now concluded. 
The exchanges that have just gone on between the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  really show that the thinking of the Government on this subject of the cost-price squeeze has all along been very- 
Yes. I thank the honourable member. It has been very forward thinking. For many years now many of us have been advocating that it is no good going on with production that cannot be sold. The dairying industry committee of inquiry in 1961 brought this out. There is a lot of evidence of this. Today the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  has brought forward a motion and ample time should have been given for it to be debated by this House, but because of the peculiar circumstances in which we are placed today there just is not time to do justice to any section of it or even to make a broad statement of the fact that the Government is very conscious of what is going on and what is being done. 
I want to try to condense into about 3 minutes a few thoughts on the change that has come over the industry itself, not over the Government. The Government has been very conscious of the plight of the rural industries for a very long time. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  is doing a very courageous job at the moment in bringing home to the various industries that it is up to them now to make some of the changes that they were told a long time ago would have to be made. They are now taking notice of this and there is a very b:g improvement in the unity between organisations. I hope that in the next couple of months we will see the amalgamation of the various organisations that are concerned with so many primary industries. I am particularly interested to see that the Australian Farmers Federation at long last has come to realise that the rank and file - that is, the farmers who are out on the job - who are feeling the cost-price squeeze, are all in favour of the type of action that the Government is proposing at the present time. 
Under the peculiar circumstances that we have here today, I am not able to go on and elaborate on this point. There is only one other comment I would like to make in relation to the effect that these proposals have had, and that is that we have this week had confirmation from the wool industry that it is at very long last beginning to realise that it has to do something positive. As a result of this, there was a significant rise in the price trends at the wool auctions yesterday. I am quite certain that this cost-price squeeze has two ends. The honourable member for Macarthur mentioned these in his remarks. It is true that costs are rising. I would like to have time to bring into true perspective the influences of tariffs. If we look at the total tariff collections we see that they do not run into the amount that the honourable member for Macarthur mentioned. So tariffs do not all operate against rural industries. If the debate is widened to include supports of all kinds, we will get into another field of discussion altogether. 
It is not only costs that we have to worry about; we also have to worry about prices. If the workers of Australia continue to demand more and more money, not only prices to farmers will be increased but prices generally will increase. I understand that the price of cigarettes will be increased this week. If the price of beer is increased people are prepared to pay the higher price. However, when the price of butter is increased nobody is prepared to pay it. In deference to the timetable, I will conclude. However, an honourable member has now asked by way of interjection whether I recommend an increase in prices. Of course there should be an increase in prices. I could speak for quite a long time yet, but I know the Minister wants to take part in the debate, so I will curtail my time. 
The last remarks made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who has just sat down, show quite clearly how little the Opposition has understood the intention of the Government in bringing in this Bill. The main thought behind this was: What is going to be the benefit to the patient? It is obvious from what has been said by the two speakers from the Opposit on to date that they are jealous of the fact that the Government has introduced a Bill that is so much more advantageous to the patient than the Labor socialised scheme, of which we heard so much of during the last election, could possibly be; they know that this is what the public will want. No doubt the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  made a very erudite speech but I am afraid I was not able to follow his thoughts all the time because he quoted so many opinions of so many people that his speech became a disjointed mass. 
Yes. It was a disjointed statement which did not cover the basis of this Bill. The honourable member said a little about what the Australian Labor Party's scheme is going to be. He said it will be cheaper. He also said it would be 'li% based on income'. I need hardly remind the people of Australia that this  li%  is a figure that has never really been authentically checked for accuracy. There have been some estimates made of what it may be but there have been no checks as to its accuracy.  
The estimate of % was made in 1966 by a couple of researchers at a university who were filling in spare time and hoping to make a few bob on the side by preparing some sort of submission which presumably the Labor Party took up. If the estimate in 1966 was 1£% it will certainly be a lot more now. There is a very important point here. The  li%  of income tax that is talked about means an 8% increase in what is paid in income tax. This is pretty important. This is something that escaped the people opposite, but is obvious to anyone who has really tried to follow the development of our scheme through. In my view, the only thing that matters in the long run is what will be best for the patient. 
I can remember what happened when the national health scheme was introduced. Honourable members will recall that the Labor Party was most anxious to nationalise the doctors, to regiment them and subject them to some form of compulsion such as there is in the British scheme. This is exactly what Labor wanted to do. The Labor Party wanted to nationalise the doctors in the early stages of the scheme. However, it never learns - it is still trying to do the same thing. 
The British scheme is not only a failure; it is a costly failure. It is a failure because people have to wait months and months before they can receive medical attention. They have to line up in a doctor's surgery; they have to sit on a long bench and move up in the same way as people have to do in veterinary surgeries. The British scheme is also a failure because it has not been able to develop 1 new hospital over the last 10 years or more. People are being deluded by the fact that the Labor Party says that it is a free service. There is no such thing as a free service. The people of Britain are paying for it all right: they are paying for it through the nose. 
When the Government first introduced this national health scheme the main thought was to see that the doctor's bill was paid. It was a scheme that was drawn up to enable people to pay the doctor's bill. The idea was to put the scheme on an insurance basis and 90% was to be recoverable. I would much prefer to see the scheme conducted on a 90% basis than perhaps the  $5  that is spoken of now. But over the years the doctors became caught up a little with the fact that they were getting such a wonderful  bonanza out of the scheme when the bills were paid that they proceeded to lift their charges to the stage where, roughly speaking - and I do not want to drag out the statistics to put it into actual terms, and the position varies in the several States - the patient had to pay one-third instead of 10%, the fund paid one-third and the government made up another one-third. That breakdown of the figures is near enough for the purposes of the argument. But in spite of this unexpected and perhaps I could almost say unwarranted prosperity that the medical profession had enjoyed doctors failed to co-operate with the Government over all these years in the way that I believe they should. 
We have a wonderful example of this in the lack of co-operation given by doctors to the pensioner medical service. Last year the Government brought in the tapered means test. This covered a lot of people in a deserving area. The Government saw a need to help people who were right on the border line and on the fringe - retired people on fixed pensions and so on. By the introduction of this tapered means test a lot more people were brought within the ambit of the service. But the doctors would not take them. I believe that the doctors are being well paid for their work in the service. If one worked out how many doctors there are and how much the service has cost over the year in total one would find that, taking the average amount that a doctor receives, it is a very, very nice basis on which a doctor can start his practice. Some doctors get a very great deal more than the average. 
There is the position with which we were faced last year. Over the period since the scheme was introduced there had been some changes in the economy. It was not practical for the Government just to follow the doctors' rise in fees by increasing its payments. It was not possible for the funds to do so, and the public was paying too much. The Government decided that it would appoint the Nimmo Committee to examine the whole position although, quite frankly, I do not really think that the Nimmo Committee was necessary. Its report is very interesting. I think all the information contained in it was available to us. I believe that many honourable members are better acquainted with this problem of health benefits than the Nimmo Committee has shown itself to be. We are quite aware of the difficulties that exist and are capable of bringing forward amendments which would have brought the scheme up to date. But the practice these days is to seek the advice of outside experts and so we got the Nimmo Committee, which made a number of recommendations. 
Its first recommendation was that a commission should be appointed. Earlier today we heard the honourable member for Oxley, who led for the Opposition, move an amendment to the motion for the second reading in which he sought the appointment of a national health insurance commission to run medical and hospital services. It is clear that if the Nimmo Committee had not been restricted by its terms of reference it may have gone overboard and advocated the Socialist scheme which the Labor Party has adopted, because the Nimmo Committee did advocate the appointment of a commission. From discussions I have had I understand that a commission is to be appointed to run this scheme, although there has as yet been no official announcement of this. I am not in favour of a commission, but this is not the place to go into my reasons except to say that I think this is a Socialist move. The Government proposes that the commission shall have certain functions. The Labor Party has made i: clear that it would operate the scheme under a commission, which would decide the nature of the scheme, the percentage of income that would be taken from people to run the scheme and which doctors patients would get. If we have a commission running the scheme it would be so easy for a future Labor government, if Australia ever has the misfortune to get one, to change the system overnight into this Socialist dream that would completely ruin the historic relationship between patient and doctor. 
Faced with the necessity to amend the structure of the medical side of the national health scheme the Government decided to go ahead firstly with the medical scheme. I would like to go on record now as saying that at this moment there is too much confusion about the differential payments to allow us to go ahead and pass this Bill before we are sure of the best way to handle the matter. The medical profession has been consulted and it has told us what it wants. In the main it has been the Australian Medical* Association to which the Government has turned. This was natural because this is the body with which the Government has dealt over the years. The other groups have in the past remained in the background, content to let the AMA do the talking for them. This does not mean that the AMA is representative of the entire profession. Now we find that the general practitioners have many fears. Personally I think they are baseless, but nevertheless they are held by the general practitioners. Then there is a group calling itself the Section of General Practice in the New South Wales branch of the AMA. Surely if this is part of the AMA its representations should have been made through the AMA. But the Government consulted with the AMA and came up with these differential payments. 
Unfortunately the Nimmo Committee said that the fees charged by specialists in the practise of their speciality should be ascertained separately from the fees charged by general practitioners. I suppose you can read that to mean that there should be a differential payment, but that is not the way I interpret it. Last year when we had quite a lot of discussion about this matter I was under the impression that we were arriving at a common fee basis. Everybody accepted this and I believe that in putting its scheme forward the Labor Party would have adopted the common fee basis. The Labor Parity has not told us whether it would have consulted the AMA or whether the 5 doctors in its ranks would have been the authorities to decide. We do not know what would have happened. But the idea of a common fee was, I believe, accepted by all of us. However, in the last few weeks we have been confronted with this disparity between what a general practitioner should get for a certain procedure and what a specialist should get. 
There is within the medical profession throughout the world such an obvious move towards specialisation that it is not surprising to find that the number of general practitioners is not growing. In one of the notifications that we have had from one of these bodies - so many come along that we tend to forget who sends them - we were told that there are 6.000 general' practitioners in Australia and that the number has remained static for the last 5 or 6 years. This is a section of the profession whose numbers are not increasing. The young fellows enter the profession with the idea of being specialists. They are rather horrified at the prospect of general practice, where they have to accept responsibility. This is what is wrong with the young men of today and their university training: They are not prepared to accept responsibility. They are not prepared to face up to the fact that they have to make decisions concerning the health of people. They feel that it is much more attractive and more remunerative to specialise. I am not altogether sold on the idea that specialist practice should be better paid than general practice. Some specialists are not as good as other specialists. Do we have a common fee for specialists? Who is to stop the top specialists in Australia from getting higher fees than their colleagues receive? What will happen to the concept of the $5 maximum to be paid by the patient if he goes to the top man for surgery? Will the patient still pay only $5 out of his own pocket? This aspect is very confusing at the moment. 
The AMA had many consultations with the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  and the Minister addressed many AMA meetings. After having stuck to the differential basis for weeks or months we now And that the AMA, in a letter dated 1st May which I received only today and which 1 have not had time thoroughly to study, has split its differential list into a number of sections. Section A contains 25 services which are rarely referred by a genera) practitioner to a specialist - services such as reducing a dislocated thumb. Section B contains 102 services, which are relatively commonly referred to a specialist - for example, confinement and appendectomy. After all there are a lot of general practitioners who perform tonsillectomies, appendectomies and so on. Surely 70% or 80% of confinements are handled by general practitioners. In section C there are 181 services in which referral to a specialist is the general rule. They have reduced their double barrelled list already from 340 to 181. 
The Royal Australian College of General Practitioners has gone to a lot of trouble to list the 340 numbers set out in the back of the book. It has stated that some of these things should be paid for on the basis of the common fee of the general practitioner and that the others should be paid for on the basis of the common fee of the specialist. Believe me, 1 spent a lot of time going into this matter. I was trying hard to get the picture of what the medical profession wanted. I found that the general practitioners want to add one procedure to the 340 joint procedures and I will come back to this matter later on if I have the time. They want to amend 14 of them. They want to include things which only specialists do. They want to delete 239 of the lower priced benefits and to delete only 86 of the higher priced benefits based on the specialist figure. 
In the case of the numbers which they want amended, they have not exactly asked that either one or other of the figures should be adopted. What they mean in effect is that there should be a number referring to tonsils and then, if the case is a complicated one and the general practitioner has to refer it to a specialist, an A number should be used and the case then should attract a specialist fee. This applies to tonsillectomies, removal or adenoids, appendectomies and hernias, for example, when the cases are complicated. I do not see much difficulty in working thu suggestion into the scheme by means of adding a few numbers. 
Not being a doctor I found the list to be confusing and I was not able to follow exactly what the general practitioners meant. In the case of confinements it seemed to me to be obvious that they wanted to make sure that they got their fee but that if trouble arose and the case had to be referred to a specialist the specialist fee also would be covered so far as the patient was concerned. This is not terribly clear. For that reason I would like to have a little more time at my disposal before this Bill becomes law in order to decide on the right course to be followed. 
Under the heading 'Anaesthetics' 20 or 30 procedures are set out alongside the numbers in the Schedule. The general practitioners have suggested that anybody who administers anaesthetic must be a specialist, because he has to be qualified in this respect. They argue that the fact that he happens to be a general practitioner is no reason why he should be paid less than a specialist who is called in to administer an anaesthetic. 1 can see that the Government would have trouble in accept :ng this 'idea. Every anaesthetic administered by a general practitioner would have to be paid for at the higher price. Therefore the present rather high cost would be increased, and I would like to know by how much it would be increased. How often is a general practitioner called upon to administer an anaesthetic? This could happen very often ;n a country town because a specialist would not be available. If a doctor has to perform an operation then naturally he will ask one of his colleagues to administer the anaesthetic. 
They have to become proficient iri the procedure. What is the difference between being proficient and being classed as a specialist in anaesthetics? Let us consider what happens in Melbourne when one goes into a hospital. The anaesthetist has a consultation and for that he receives a fee. Then he receives a fee for what is done in the theatre. It is all very fine business. I have gone through these figures carefully and have compared them in order to see what they are. It is obvious what has been done. Let us take the case of a simple procedure involving a hand. They wanted the specialist fee to be brought down to the general practitioner fee. But if a complication arose in connection with that same procedure they felt that the general practitioner, if he did the work, should be paid at the same rate as the specialist. The question is: What do you pay for - the skill of the man who does the job or the job that is done? 
I find this legislation very difficult to assess. Again I say that I would like more time to find out more about what has happened. I received this submission from the general practitioners only on 30th April. At that time Parliament was in recess. The submission from the Australian Medical Association I received only today. It seems to imply that there is some problem facing the medical profession as to what should be done. 
I have said already that my opinion was that there would be a common fee. Now I would like to throw in a third consideration. The general practitioners have gone through ail the numbers in the Bill and have said which services should be paid for at the general practitioner rate and which should be paid for at the specialist rate. But have they done this on the basis of which is the most common fee charged? Originally we were told that computers were used to decide which was the most common fee. Has this been done now for the full range of general practitioners and specialists and have they come out with a common fee? If this has been done, it might alter the submission of the general practitioners. Presumably an adjustment on these lines would fit in with the principle behind what they are trying to do. It also would fit in with the principle of what the AMA is trying to do. I believe it would satisfy a lot of doubts in the minds of people who are wondering just how far we should go in making this service a benefit for the doctor rather than a benefit for the patient. This is my problem when I consider the Bill. 
There is one other aspect I would like to mention before my time expires. I refer the House to clause 8 of the Bill which deals with definitions. The Government is proposing a concession to the dental profession. For many years the dental profession has complained that no matter how good an oral surgeon might be in practising dentistry such patients were debarred from receiving a benefit whereas if a doctor performed some procedure within the field of dentistry the patient would receive the benefit. The Government has now decided upon the definitions set out in clause 8 which states:  professional service' means - 
a prescribed medical service that is rendered in an operating theatre of an approved hospital by a legally qualified dentist or dental practitioner approved by the DirectorGeneral for the purposes of this definition: 
I do not have time to go into it now but I give notice that I will move an amendment in Committee that the words 'rendered in an operating theatre of an approved hospital' be deleted so that where it is more convenient for an oral surgeon to do a procedure in his surgery he could do so. I can see a lot of difficulties in it. When I say 1 give notice of an amendment, it is subject to my obtaining further information. This aspect was brought to my attention only over the weekend. My time has elapsed and I will defer my further remarks to the Committee stages. 1 wind up by saying that I have always maintained in this House that the national health scheme, as we understand the basis on which it works, gives the people of Australia a better health service than any I have been able to examine, whether in Canada or the United Kingdom, and certainly a lot better than the United States of America. We should stick to the principles upon which our present national health scheme is based. I would like time to digest some of the information that has been brought forward by the doctors in the last few days. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
The Opposition can hardly be blamed for putting up such a sham case in relation to this matter. I have looked pretty carefully at most of the Opposition amendments and they are quite frivolous. The Opposition knows perfectly well that there is no hope of having them adopted. They are not in the tradition even of the Labor Party's health service. At least 2 of the early amendments cannot be acceptable to the Chair because they involve an increase in the appropriation. I suggest that Opposition members stop making a noise and let us get on with the business of the Parliament. 
If the report of the Nimmo Committee is to be cited to use as an authority for simple things like this we will find it very hard to come to any conclusions about what should be done with a health scheme. The Nimmo Committee did not get any more of an answer to this problem than the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  has. He professed not to know why this clause was in the Bill. I thought he would have known, having had some experience in this Parliament on previous occasions, that the purpose is to try to prevent optometrists from putting pressure on the Government to get benefits for their patients. They put up an extremely good case many years ago - I think it was 1964  -  and it was thought at the time that it might be a good idea to give a benefit to the people who went to optometrists and obtained spectacles. But the Prime Minister of that day circum vented this proposal by inserting a clause which prevented people who went to an ophthalmologist from getting a benefit in order to deprive the patients of optometrists of a benefit. This is an injustice which has been perpetrated ever since. 
The Minister has said he will have a look at it because he has now heard from the ophthalmologists. I know he has heard from them before; we all know that. There is no reason why this provision should not have been included on this occasion and there is no reason at all why it cannot be put in as an amendment in the Senate. A little while ago when we were debating whether the guillotine would be adopted I said that most of the 30 amendments which would be proposed by the Opposition were frivolous, and this is one of them. Opposition members know perfectly well that it is not in their province to ask for this amendment to be accepted by this Committee now. I would have thought they had enough gumption to put forward the proposal that the Minister should consider this, which is what I now suggest. The honourable member for Barton raised another point but I did not quite follow his figures because there is a little difference in the common fee between the States. Item 9 of the table contained in the Schedule provides that patients who receive professional attendance from a specialist in the practice of his speciality where referred are entitled to a benefit. The Commonwealth benefit is $4.25 and it is matched by the fund benefit of $4.25. The excess required to be met by the patient in New South Wales is $2.50; in Victoria it is $1.50, because of the difference in the common fee. 
Let us consider the position of a family that unfortunately has a child with a squint. They go along to a specialist, referred by their local general practitioner who said: You had better see a specialist about this'. The specialist examines the child, and it is as thorough an examination as that made by any other specialist in any part of the medical profession. At the end of it he says: 'The only thing we can do is prescribe some lenses to try to correct the condition*. That family is not entitled to a rebate. This is wrong. If there are 4 in the family it is 4 times as wrong. I have heard over the last fortnight very much said about the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  that no procedure would cost the patient more than $5. Here we have a provision in the Bill for a consultation with a specialist under which the cost to the patient would be $2.50 in New South Wales and $1.50 in Victoria. Yet if as a result of this consultation the ophthalmologist finds he has to prescribe spectacle lenses the patient gets no rebate whatsoever. The patient will have to pay $11 in New South Wales and $10 in Victoria. The common practice in this unfortunate ailment, commonly known as a squint - I am afraid 1 do not know the medical term - is for the child to be required to come back in 3 months time when the specialist will again examine him. The doctor mav need to prescribe a different strength of lens. Again there will be no rebate. 
I agree entirely with the intention of Opposition members but 1 would have thought the best approach to this problem, in which I join them and in which I ask them to join me, would be to ask the Minister to look at it very quickly and to eliminate what is a complete anomaly, lt does not need any extensive inquiry by his Department which is fully aware of what is happening. If, as I have been told often in the last fortnight, we intend to honour the promise that no procedure will cost more than $5, this anomaly must bc removed in the Senate. 
Government quite forcefully that we will not accept this. I ask honourable members opposite to be fair about it 
I rise to  a  point of order. I object violently to the fact that the Opposition thinks that it can get all the credit for putting forward suggestions which I myself have been putting forward for a long time. 
Yes, but I still want to talk to them. 
The proceedings of the last 40 minutes have been quite farcical if we are to give the impression that this Parliament is trying to consider a health Bill. I sympathise entirely with what has been said by the Opposition about the fact that some arrangement has been made about the allotment of time for the discussion during the Committee stage. A couple of speakers from the other side - nobody from this side - have spoken on the clauses we are considering at the moment. I would like to remind everybody that I gave notice during the debate on the second reading that 1 was prepared to move an amendment relating to oral surgery. I believe that in fairness to everybody there should be some opportunity for discussing this. Speakers from the opposite side have twice received the call when I have stood up to speak. I want to register a most emphatic protest. There does not seem to be much use in going on with the things I wanted to say about oral surgery. lt is quite incomprehensible to me why the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  the Government, the Department of Health or whoever else is responsible would put into a Bill such a provision relating to prescribed medical services rendered by a legally qualified dental practitioner or approved dentist,  i  presume that immediately this Bill is passed the patients of oral surgeons will be eligible to receive a benefit. Yet here we have a whole schedule of practices which oral surgeries use every day, and there is no way that the patients of oral surgeons can receive a benefit for these procedures even if they are done in a hospital, because there is no prescribed medical service. I think it is a disgrace that a government would come out so completely unprepared about something which it has put into a Bill. I realised only a very short time ago that it was so restricted. 
It is absolutely reasonable to say that the whole range of procedures which oral surgeons will be putting into practice in their daily rounds will attract benefit. There are about 25 or 30 oral surgeons in Australia, and I do not think it will be very difficult for the Department, if necessary, or somebody else to say whose patients are to be eligible and to bring out a specialists list. There are about 25 or 30 oral surgeons, but about 6 or 7 of them also have medical qualifications. The patients of those with the medical qualifications will receive the benefits but not the patients of the other men, who may have things referred to them by the first group because some people are regarded as being better at it than others. The patients of those men without medical qualifications will be denied benefit. 
It is completely ridiculous that government should come out with something that has not been thought out even in its first principles. The Bill provides that the patients of an oral surgeon will become eligible for benefit, but they will be denied by the fact that none of the procedures has yet been laid down. The Minister talks of a working committee doing this. Surely common sense would indicate that it is inevitable that the list of all the procedures which are conducted in everyday life by oral surgeons should be known. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 19. 
After section 29 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: - "29a.  -  (1.) There shall be, in respect of - 
each State; 
the Australian Capital Territory; and 
the Northern Territory, a Specialist Recognition Advisory Committee. "(2.) Each Committee shall consist of four medical practitioners appointed by the Minister from among six medical practitioners nominated by the Australian Medical Association. "(3.) A member of a Committee holds office during the Minister's pleasure. "(4.) A member of the Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee is not eligible to be nominated or appointed under this section to a Committee. "(3.) At a meeting of a Committee three members form a quorum. "(6.) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the procedure of the Committee. "29b.  -  (1.) There shall be a Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee, which shall consist of four medical practitioners appointed by the Minister from among six medical practitioners nominated by the Australian Medical Association. "(2.) A member of the Committee holds office during the Minister's pleasure. (3.) A member of a Specialist Recognition Advisory Committee is not eligible to be nominated or appointed under this section to the Committee. "(4.) At a meeting of the Committee thi, members form a quorum. "'(5.) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the procedure of the Committee. "(2.) Before considering a question referred to it under the last preceding sub-section, a Committee may co-opt another medical practitioner who has qualifications, experience and standing in the medical profession in the specialty to which the question before the Committee relates to be a member of the Committee for the purpose of considering, and making a recommendation on, that question. "29d. - (1.) Where the Director-General notifies  a  medical practitioner that the Director-General has determined that the medical practitioner is not to be recognised, lor the purposes of this Act, as a consultant physician, or as a specialist, in a specialty, the medical practitioner may, within one month after the receipt of that notification, lodge an appeal with the Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee. "(2.) Before considering an appeal, the Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee may co-opt another medical practitioner who has qualifications, experience and standing in the medical profession in relation to the specialty to which the appeal relates to bc a member of the Committee for the purpose of considering and determining the appeal. 
My question is also directed to the Minister for Health and is on the same subject of common fees. What action is his Department able to take to overcome the problem that the people of Tasmania and Western Australia will have as a result of the announced intention of the specialists in those States to increase their fees to bring them up to the extraordinary levels of specialists in Victoria and New South Wales? What action can his Department take to ensure that the common fee charged now by specialists will not be increased so that customers who can afford to pay more than $5 will not have to pay something extra? 

 - Mr Chairman, I understand that we arc speaking to section 101 in the principal Act in which it has been proposed by- 
Yes. But the new clause to be inserted reads:  46a. Section 101 of the  Pricipal  Act is amended by inserting after sub-section (2b.) the following sub-section: (2c.) Parliament shall be advised of the names and qualifications of those persons appointed under the foregoing provisions. 
We have had a demonstration this afternoon of the complete wasting of the time of the Committee by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  By interjection across the Committee I tried to ask whether they- 
Let him go. There is plenty of time. There is still 4 minutes. The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  has seen fit to move this amendment knowing perfectly well that, under the ethics of the game, these people are not anxious to have publicity. He and the other medical mcn on the Opposition side know perfectly well that the rules under which doctors work state that they do not want publicity. Doctors do not want to be publicised. 
We on this side of the Committee are perfectly satisfied, even if the Opposition is not, with the procedure by which the AMA, which was spoken of in such disrespectful terms by the honourable member for Sturt, nominates 10 medical practitioners of whom 6 become members of the committee and by which the Pharmacy Guild of Australia gives the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  a list of 3 persons from whom he chooses 1 to be the member who should work on this committee which gives the Minister advice. Surely it is not necessary to blazon these names publicly so that these persons can be plagued by every Tom, Dick and Harry who thinks that some vague drug should be put onto the list. These committee members would have people chasing them up and down the streets wanting some drug to be put on the list as a special benefit. It would not be right for this amendment to be carried. 
I cannot really understand why a group of doctors, who have suddenly found themselves in this place, have been put up deliberately right through the Committee stage to move amendments. Presumably it is to get them some publicity and to show that they were active in harassing the Government and in putting up suggestions as to what the Government should do. Some of these amendments have been quite futile. In the early stages of the debate, I said that the amendments put up by the Opposition were frivolous. I say that again. This afternoon the honourable member for Oxley moved 6 amendments together which he knew could not be accepted. He knows the rules of this House even if some of the newcomers, like the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  do not. We have the Standing Orders under which the Parliament works. When he has .been here a little longer the honourable member for Sturt might find out about them. But I doubt that because I do not think he has the capacity to find out. 
Anyway, the honourable member will not be here that long. But,  Sir- 
There is nothing unparliamentary about the word 'frivolous'. I mean, the whole place has been in uproar quite often because of the frivolity that we get from the other side. This is one of the things that we are putting up with lately. As for the honourable member for Hughes saying that I did not know what I was talking about, I point out that it has just been demonstrated quite clearly that he had not the vaguest idea what- 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clauses 47 to 55 agreed to. 
The Schedule. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. What disadvantage of international significance would occur if sovereign rights to the off-shore minerals and other aspects of controls required to regulate fishing, navigation, pollution and all the other 'rights' - I place the word in inverted commas - were invested in the States and the Commonwealth as full and equal partners, as against the proposal to pass legislation which will put Commonwealth and State relations on a masterservant basis? 
I ask for leave to make a short statement. I wish to withdraw some remarks that I made in a debate last week. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development and relates to the meeting in Adelaide yesterday of the Australian Minerals Council. In answer to a previous question, the Minister quoted some words which were used by the Prime Minister the day before. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to some of the other remarks of the Prime Minister in the same speech. The Prime Minister referred to: '. . . debate of a friendly and constructive kind, not debate designed as an . advocacy of previously determined positions ... to discover whether the proposal fits properly into the co-operative federalism which we seek to retain' I ask: Is that the atmosphere in which the Council meeting was held yesterday? 
I would not have intruded into this debate except for the fact that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  is pushing for the establishments of select committees on all sort of things. This Parliament would bc completely disrupted and its business would be entirely put out of perspective if we gave way to these sudden demands of the 25 or 26 new members in the Labor Party who want to re-organise the whole business of running a country. They just do not understand the way in which a Parliament is operated. I give full marks to the honourable member for Maribyrnong. He has a genuine interest in the subject under discussion, but he is deluded into believing that special committees of this Parliament can be appointed to look at specific subjects. That just is not on. I just wanted to remind the Parliament that this place has been operating for a very long time and all these new boys who come here with a lot of new ideas cannot reorganise it in 5 minutes. 
1 present an interim report together with minutes of proceedings from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in relation to that report. 
The first thing I want to do is register my dissatisfaction at the fact that these 3 departments, each very important in its  own right, aregrouped  together  and honourable  members are asked to deal with them in 15 minutes. I understand this is to be cut down to 10 minutes in future years. I for one would very much like to spend 15 minutes on each department. There are many things in Customs which have changed since we last had an opportunity to speak on the Estimates. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has made several moves which have very much improved the handling of by-law procedures. We have also seen the reclassification of the Brussels nomenclature. All these warrant the spending of some time and unfortunately I cannot do it. The estimates for the Department of Trade and Industry obviously should be dealt with entirely on their own. I could spend 15 minutes without any trouble at all telling the Committee and the people of Australia that we should have a separate department for secondary industry or manufacturing industry, instead of it being only a division within the Department of Trade and Industry. There are many reasons for this suggestion. Primary industry has proved how valuable it is to have a Minister who is able to speak for it and is able to bring the difficulties that it endures before the Government. The same thing would apply to manufacturing industry. I would like to voice my opinion that we should have a separate ministry for this purpose. 
Tonight I would like to speak about primary industry, specifically dairying, because that happens to be the sector that is most prominent in my thinking at the present time. It is necessary for all of us interested in the re-development of our country areas to explore every opportunity and every avenue in order to return to a healthy state this important contributor to the health of the nation and the prosperity of the countryside. I think everybody agrees that at present dairying is not enjoying a very good time. Dairying has been through this before; it is not the first time we have been down to very low prices and been worried by the fact that the return is inadequate for the amount of work put in by the farmers. This has happened repeatedly; it will happen again. We will come out of it. I am not at all worried about the future of dairying. It is very strong because it is an essential industry, one that is required by the people. Nobody would doubt the fact that milk, for example, is one of the most healthy foods given to children and we continue to enjoy it for the rest of our lives. I would like to say on behalf of the farmers in my electorate that we are most grateful for the consideration that has been given by this Government to the difficulties that have beset the industry in the last few years. 
This year, because of over-production and a very bountiful situation last year when we had excellent grass growth, a lot of farmers have had forced on them an expansion of their business mainly because of the failure of leaders in the industry to realise that while we are getting into this situation where easy expansion of production is possible, at the same time we are facing heavy and intense competition on the world market from other nations which are perhaps in a similar position. The world market consequently has become depressed and I do not need to tell honourable members just how bad this has been. This situation has arisen because there has been such a big over-production of butter fat. For some reason we have not been able to persuade the people responsible for the policies within the industry - the industry leaders - that we are producing a product which the world does not want. I am very hopeful that within a year - maybe it will take a little longer - we will see a change in the method by which farmers are paid for their products. I want to see an emphasis on payments for solids not fat so that the value of proteins and minerals, which are the most valuable part of milk is recognised. The farmer would then be given a price for a product which is wanted and he would not be put in a position of producing an article which the world does not want. 
I have been advocating for some years a system which would discourage the production of surplus butter fat. This is responsible for so much of our problems in the disposal of the product. The wholesale price for butter on the domestic market is $53 per cwt. On the London market it is $25.70. In other areas where we are able to make sales, such as Asia and South America, the price is $25.05. Manufacturing costs are the same no matter where it goes and the bounty is the same. The return to the farmer is roughly $53 a cwt on the local market and $25 a cwt for everything that is exported. Under equalisation these amounts are brought together and the farmer is paid a composite price. Surely the only way to handle over production is to tell the fanner that he will receive a certain income from the domestic market at a good price, and if he is silly enough to produce a whole lot more and accept the overseas price for it, that is his affair. A very small proportion, maybe 10 per cent, is sold at a very much lower price for the production of butter oil. It returns to the farmer about 11c or 12c a lb of butter fat. 
I know that quite a lot of farmers would be able to produce and sell butter at the lower return of $25 a cwt. They could do this because of favourable conditions on their farms or because of the favourable condition of their labour. Others are not in a position to do it. We find that this year the Minister has told the industry exactly where it is. He has given the farmers the full lead on what they should be doing, but they will not take any notice. They say to him: 'No. This industry must go on. It is an essential one and we want to maintain the population in the country.' I agree with this, but their idea of doing it was to say: *We will try to limit our production voluntarily.' They acceded to the Minister's request only because the Government said to them: 'Unless something is done we will not be able to continue to underwrite butter at 34c a lb.' Faced with this, the farmers went away and did some more thinking. After having been very obstinate for months they went away and came back with the proposal that there should be a voluntary restraint on the amount each farmer would be able to send into his factory. The only way to control this is to tell the factories that they can take only a certain amount of butter fat over the whole season. 
The Australian Dairy Industry Council came back with the proposal - I think it is an extremely poor one - that it would ration the whole production of Australia to 220,000 tons of butter and 70,000 tons of cheese. Theoretically this would give the same return to the farmer as he would get if the Government retained the underwriting of 34c a lb. If the industry produces more than its 220,000 tons of butter and 70,000 tons of cheese its return will be less, because the Government has indicated clearly that it does not intend to give  any  more to the dairy industry than it has so generously given this year by increasing the subsidy from $27m to $46,250,000. That has been one of the highlights of the Budget as far as I am concerned. 
What worries me is that Victoria's total is to be 136,000 tons out of the 220,000 tons. In order to meet that the Victorian producers have been asked to reduce their production by 3i per cent. This sounds very little. One might say: Put off a few cows and you will get your 3i per cent reduction without any trouble. In actual practice it is silly to expect that each farmer will put off 2 cows voluntarily. He will look over the fence and say: T do not see Jack putting off 2 cows. Why should I?' In some areas - I have one in mind in south Gippsland - redevelopment has taken areas out of dairying and has subdivided them for residential purposes. The factory management concerned says: 'We have that much less production coming in, so our farmers will not have to reduce at all.' That is not fair to the farmers in other areas who will be required to make the reduction. The position is worse up in Queensland where they are given a quota of 26,000 tons. To fill that quota farmers will have to increase their production. We all know that production in Queensland over the years has been far from economical. The farmers cannot compete with the Victorian dairy farmers, and yet the Victorians are asked to make a reduction in a year of difficulty and the Queensland farmers are told that they can produce more because they have had drought. It is pretty obvious that a lot of those farmers will not be able to produce. My main point is that the whole thing has to be properly shared. There is not a proper sharing of the burden. 
Added to that, in July, which is the first month of the season, there was an increase in our production of about 18 per cent over the previous year. So our reduction is now not  3i  per cent for the season but about  4i  per cent. The thing that I want to know and that the farmers of Gippsland want to know is after the very difficult situation this year what are we going to do about next year? I make a plea to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  to make a statement about what the farmers are going to do next year. At this time of the vear the farmers are thinking of the matings that have to be made to keep their production going for next year. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Government's decision to increase the total dairy subsidy this year to $46,250,000 mean that the previous arrangement by which the Government accepted responsibility for underwriting the return to producers at 34c per lb no longer applies? If so, what will be the return to producers on any production that exceeds the 220,000 tons of butter and 70,000 tons of cheese that has been arranged, and how will that be channelled to the producers? Is the voluntary restraint proposal of the Australian Dairy Industry Council likely to achieve its target? Even if it does - which seems most unlikely - will the Minister make a statement very shortly covering the extent of the Government's support for next season so that dairy farmers may plan their breeding programmes to optimise their returns for the next season? 
My question also is directed to the Prime Minister. Perhaps we are trying him out today to make sure he is in good form for tomorrow's luncheon. Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the fact that because of the number of select committees which have been appointed and are likely to be appointed in the future there is at present a great shortage of space to accommodate committee meetings and working areas for committee staff? I understand that plans have been formulated and approved for the National Capital Development Commission to provide some essential extensions to the rear of Parliament House. Will the Prime Minister, please, give the final go-ahead signal for those proposals in order to alleviate as soon as possible a situation which has now become acute? 
I have often tried to follow the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in his gross distortions of the facts in relation to what he claims are the deficiencies in the National Health Scheme as administered by this Government and his attempts to bolster a scheme which the Labor Party has tried to foist on to the public for many years. The Labor Party keeps telling us it can finance its scheme on H per cent of income. This is supposed to be some magical formula. But it forgets entirely that having taken this H per cent it will have to take an enormous sum out of revenue to build up the deficiency in the national welfare account if that is all it is to be credited with. The estimates debate is not the time to discuss the merits and so on of the various schemes. There are certain things that happen and small deficiencies discovered which, while we may find that the scheme is working admirably and that people are getting very good service in many areas, should be brought to light at a time like this. 
One matter with which I am particularly concerned .is the dispensing fee that is allowed to chemists under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I had the misfortune to be absent when the Government Members Health Committee had a couple of meetings, but ' I understand it has accepted as reasonable the latest payment that has been offered by the Government. Two cents has been added to the remuneration to the chemists for their dispensing. This is the miserable amount that has been allowed after many years of negotiation and investigation of the facts of dispensing. I want to remind honourable members that until now there has been no increase in the fee paid to chemists for dispensing since 1961. At that time there was a 10 per cent increase and the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Harold  Holt, was responsible later for continuing an arrangement by which there would be automatic adjustments from time to time. When there was a need for an adjustment because other fees were increasing - wages were increasing, costs were increasing and the chemists felt they had an entitlement to ask for an increase - we were told that the formula we were supposed to work on gave a freakish result. We could not get anything more freakish, if we like to accept the use of that word as a reasonable way of getting out of a tight corner, than the survey done over the last 6 or 7 years, jointly paid for by the Government and the Pharmaceutical Guild, in an attempt to find out what the actual cost was. Without going into a great deal of detail, it is quite apparent looking at it from the outside that if we are trying to find out what should be a correct dispensing fee, if is not reasonable to take into account the chemist's whole business, including his retail trade in all sorts of cosmetics and maybe cameras, films, confectionery and all the odds and ends which make many chemist shops, particularly in favoured positions, almost like variety stores. What happens in the front of the shop has nothing to do with what goes on in the dispensary. I would have thought that any survey would have concentrated on this. But no, the survey was to find the total profitability of the chemist's trade. Eventually the survey arrived at 3 degrees of profitability. There were a few very favoured pharmacies that had pretty big profits and there was quite a range in the middle that were quite comfortable. I do not think chemists are complaining that they are poor. This is not the point. But a lot of chemists who go out into newly developed areas and open a shop in the hope that it will expand and development will be worth while are struggling just as much as the 40,000 wool growers who, I am told, have an income of only $2,000 a year. 
This is inevitable in any type of business. On examining the list of figures we find that the Government and the Guild agreed on quite a lot of bases. They agreed on the cost of goods sold for trading profit, reduced by expenses. These things were shown in the survey. The chemist feels that if his whole business is taken as a basis then he ought to be given something for goodwill. After all, the goodwill in a chemist shop is a big item. If one is going to do a costing one should admit some goodwill. Some other figures were agreed on, such as the value of the business in most assessments. Something should be allowed for interest. So there is a great discrepancy between the 2 figures - what the Guild claimed was a fair thing and what the Government said it felt was right. But at that time the Government said that the chemists should get nothing. 
The chemists, in adjusting their figures, suggested an increase of about 40c for each prescription. This is a freakish figure; there is no question about it. One could fully justify it if it affected one's own pocket. After cutting out all the possible frills and everything else one gets to a figure of about 10c. On the figures that I have seen, that result is inescapable. After a lot of negotiation, waiting, the Minister saying: 'We are looking into this. We are doing our best. We will come up with an answer some time,' and the chemists becoming very restive over the whole thing, they were offered 2c. All the chemists in my area agree that this was miserable. 
-No, I am not. My interest in this has been developed over many years of having examined a lot of the health problems in my association with our health committee. I am not a medical man. I have had a fair bit of experience, unfortunately, as a patient. My association with pharmacies has been only on the buying end. I have no financial interest in them. This is why I feel that in discussing estimates of this nature we should bring out some of these points of dissatisfaction where we have a scheme which operates very well indeed. I am very happy about most aspects of the national health scheme. 1 do not like the two-tier price for the doctors' fees. I think that is ridiculous. 
I had an enormous amendment ready when the national health scheme was introduced in the last session but no amendments were allowed. We were short circuited on that. A working committee is now trying to bring some sense into the scheme, and I think eventually we will get down to a single scheme. 1 do not see why the doctors have to worry about it. They have been very well treated compared with the way in which the chemists have been treated. Over this period since 1961 that 1 have been talking about the doctors' fee for pensioner service has gone up from $1.10 to $1.20,  $1.60  and  $1.70.  trie tee is being increased regularly for doing a job, but the chemist is fobbed off and told: You are getting more money because there are more prescriptions.' The Government is taking items out of the private area in which the chemist has been dispensing for years, and putting them on the free list and then saying: 'You have got more money.' They are reducing his rate of profit on the items. 
One other item came to my attention in the last few days. I wish I had known about it before, particularly when we were discussing medical benefits last year. My attention has been drawn to a case in which a patient goes into hospital for an operation by a specialist, the operation is performed and eventually the patient is faced with an account. It includes a hospital bill for so many days' accommodation, X-rays, pathology and also a fee in about the fifth or sixth column for the assistance at the operation by the medical resident who assisted the specialist surgeon. The specialist surgeon puts in his account separately, as does the anaesthetist and everyone else. I am referring only to this 1 item in the hospital account. The specialist's account cannot cost the patient more than $5 if he is fully covered by a contribution to an insurance scheme as this patient was. Practically the whole of the bed charge is recoverable. Most of the X-ray fee is recoverable. Most of the pathology fee is recoverable. Almost all of the surgeon's fee is recoverable. But in this other column there was an item of $94 for the assistance at the operation of the medical resident. I always understood that in normal circumstances the resident doctor was paid by the hospital and that he could not render an account. In order to try to build up their funds the hospitals have latched on to a loophole in the scheme and have added $94 on to the bill for that patient. The $94 in this case happens to be the common fee. Why was that particular amount arrived at in connection with the assistance given by a man who is on a fixed salary? 
This is a weakness in the whole scheme. If the assistance at the operation were given by a medical man the fee charged should be recoverable through the fund in exactly the same way. As a matter of fact, ii would not cost anything, because under the generous treatment of this new scheme, for 2 things going on at the same time the patient pays no more than $5 for the whole lot. So here we have a picture of a patient who has undergone a rather serious operation and a pretty expensive one. The patient had to pay $5 for (he specialist but he has to pay without resort, $94 for the assistant doctor who .was only assisting the surgeon. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. I am sure that the Minister is well aware of the great nutritional value of the milk biscuit recently developed by  Dr Alex  Buchanan of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation from the newly discovered high protein milk powder co-precipitate. Will the Minister initiate talks wilh the Minister for the Army in an effort to introduce this aid to greater alertness and efficiency by its inclusion in the rations of our fighting troops? Will he also arrange for supplies to be made available in the parliamentary dining room where it would promote mental activity in many members who need it by providing an ideal luncheon with a chunk of good Australian cheese? 
When I look at the estimates for the Department of Social Services and the Repatriation Department the first thing that strikes me is the very marked efforts that are being made by the Government to ensure that it is channelling a very large section of the available money into these worthy areas. I want to speak only about repatriation and to draw the attention of the Committee to one or two things. For instance, in repatriation alone there are 105,000 people at present receiving compensation for war service and there are also more than 55,000 Service pensioners. I will come back to this aspect later on and deal with a combination of those two groups. But in passing I would mention that these benefits are costing the people of Australia, through the Government which is making available the expenditure, $234m out of a total expenditure for the whole of the Department of $337m, which is a very significant amount when one comes to examine it. 
There have been increases over the whole range of pensions and the pension for the totally and permanently incapacitated ex-serviceman has risen to $38, and the total cost is about $45m a year. There are 23,000 TPI pensioners. The intermediate rate, which was only fairly recently introduced, does not cover such a wide range. It covers those fellows who are able to work intermittently only. In other words, they are still able to earn considerable income but because of the injury sustained due to war service they are on occasions intermittently affected by the injury and so they are given a sort of halfway pension. Then we come to the standard rates and the various percentages which are paid according to the disability. Let me once again emphasise the word disability'. Because I have not sufficient time in this debate I will not go into other activities of this Department such as assistance to war widows and orphans, special compensation, travel allowances and those sorts of things to which the Government has always lent a very sympathetic ear. 
I want to raise a matter that I have raised before. I presume I will have to do so again next year, although I hope not. I hope that by then what I have to say may be found to be worthy of acceptance. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett),  who preceded me in this debate, touched briefly on this matter. When war pensions were introduced the purpose was to provide some compensation for a disability that was suffered by a serviceman in the course of carrying out his duty in the defence of Australia and which could, and probably would, affect his earning capacity for the rest of his life. A war pension is not given as a reward for service - for having enlisted and served the nation. It is not given in payment for services rendered and it cannot, in any respect, be regarded as earnings. No-one has ever earned a war pension. It is not even income, because it is specifically designed to replace lost earning power, lt is not regarded as income when a person who receives such a pension fills out his taxation return, but for the purposes of the means test it is regarded as income. This, I submit, is completely wrong. The pension is given freely to replace lost earning power. 
In the Repatriation Act a war pension is described as a pension payable under the Act but not including a service pension. I must include some technical detail in my speech to round off the picture. A Service pension may be granted in the case of a man of 60 years or a woman of 55 years provided he or she has served in a theatre of war at a rate not exceeding the maximum payable if he or she were qualified to receive the age pension. In passing I should comment that it would be very much simpler if this had not come under the Repatriation Act at all. The Service pension is given to returned men and women who are aged 60 or 55 years respectively. A person can receive the full age pension subject to a means test which relates to any money which is regarded as income. If a person goes down the street and does some work what he receives is regarded as income. If a person, by his endeavours, is able to invest money, the income he derives from that investment is subjected to the means test. But a war pension is not given to any man as an income; it is designed to cover a disability. The recipient of a war pension is probably prevented from going down the street and doing some work and so competing on even terms with a civilian age pensioner. 
My submission is that most decidedly a war pension should be removed from the means test, and I ask that this be done. I asked for this to be done last year and I hope that I do not have to ask again next year, but if I have to do so, I will. I am not alone in making this plea. The Federal President of the Totally and Permanently Incapacitated Soldiers' Association in one of his letters referred to the disability pension and said that the war pension should have no connection whatever with the age pension. This is a widely held view. According to figures that have been made available by the Repatriation Department for the 1970-71 Budget, about 30 per cent of all TPI pensioners qualify for a part social services pension. The TPI man can have a big income and still get the TPI pension. I know of some men who are very comfortably placed but because of their war disabilities they get this pension. 
1 agree. They deserve this pension and it is quite right that they should get it. At the other end of the scale, however, there are men who, because of their disabilities, have not been able to make a place for themselves in civilian life - and this applies to the TPI pensioner and the 100 per cent rate pensioners as well - and build up an income that will maintain them adequately. The war pension is given because of a disability. This is the only source of money that some of these TPI pensioners have. There is no reason why such a pension should be taken into account in the application of the means test. In assessing eligibility for the age pension the war pension should not count. If this were the position their incomes would be increased considerably, but they would not be receiving too much for what they have suffered. As my time has almost expired, I ask the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  whether he will give serious consideration once again to this matter. I have had some interesting discussions with him about it. I have discussed it with the previous Commissioner and I hope that the new one will also take up the subject. 
It must be. 
Will the Minister for National Development indicate whether the evaluation of tenders for the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay has been completed? If so, when will the matter be considered by the Government? 
I present the report together with the minutes of proceedings of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
My  question is directed to the Minister for Health. Yesterday the Minister indicated that one reason for the 20 per cent increase in the average cost of medical benefit claims was that some doctors were previously charging less than the common fee as at 1st July last year. Can he inform the House what proportion of the increase of 20 per cent is accounted for by this circumstance? Can he also give the House a breakdown of the 30 per cent increase in total costs in the December quarter compared with the previous quarter? How much of this is due to an increase in medical procedures charged for on. hospital accounts? What has been the extent of the increased number of patients seeking specialist treatment, as was forecast, by. some members of this House? How much of the increase is due to the increase in population and the fact that some 600 or 700 doctors are launched into practice each, year? 
The legislation now before the House flows directly from the talk by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to the nation on the subject of the economy and the likely effect of the 6 per cent increase in the national wage granted by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Cabinet is said to have examined the danger spots in the economy, such as where demand is growing most strongly. The Prime Minister told us that one area of strong demand is the public sector - expenditure by governments. We have been told that this expenditure will be reduced by $75m to offset slightly the hundreds of millions of dollars of expenditure entered into since the Budget. The Prime Minister also told us that the net increase in expenditure by government departments if they were able to obtain approval for all projects which they want to implement would amount to $242m. The final result will be interesting. 
An appeal has been made to everybody to refrain from rocking the boat by demanding higher wages. This appeal has been disregarded completely by some Communist union officials. 
Has the honourable member not heard of Carmichael's demand for a $25 a week wage rise? The Prime Minister's call has been patriotically heeded by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which has not increased its prices, although it would have been fully justified in doing so, just as medical practitioners and members of this Parliament are justified in seeking higher salaries. Among others to heed the Prime Minister's call is Australian Paper and Pulp Manufacturing Co. 
Apart from the reduction in government spending the only action that has been taken has been to suspend the taxation investment allowance provided under section 62aa of the Income Tax Assessment Act on manufacturing plant and equipment. The investment allowance provides a special income tax deduction of 20 per cent of capital expenditure on new plant and equipment used in manufacturing. This allowance will be suspended as from 3rd February last. In announcing the proposal to provide the allowance the GovernorGeneral, when opening Parliament in February 1962, said: 
This will help manufacturers to meet import competition at home and to enter export markets  . . lt will give . . . particular  assistance  in the pursuit of higher efficiency  and  lower costs. 
I am not sure that the suspension of this allowance in the form that has been adopted by the Government is wise. The allowance is an incentive to productivity growth. In a time of great pressure on the supply of labour, continuing wage demands are an important cause of cost-push inflation. I would have thought that any action by manufacturing industry towards greater mechanisation and towards keeping abreast of the latest technology would be in the interests of Australia and should be encouraged, not discouraged. There must be serious doubts about the wisdom of selecting manufacturing industry as an area for restraint. The Treasurer has said that private investment in non-farm plant and equipment is rising at an annual rate in excess of 20 per cent. I take it that he was making a comparison of the quarter ended 30th September 1970 with the quarter ended 30th September 1969, which would show a seasonally adjusted increase of 20.3 per cent for all industries other than rural. But if we look beyond that figure we find that the increase in manufacturing was 12.8 per cent, in mining 51.7 per cent and in other industries 16.3 per cent. So we have the strange situation that of all these industries the one with the lowest investment growth rate has been selected for curbing action. Manufacturing happens also to be the one that must maintain and increase the supply of goods if we are to avoid moving into a situation of demand inflation. 
The Prime Minister in his statement and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his second reading speech referred to suspension of the allowance. The Bill makes a similar reference. I hope that I interpret the word suspension' correctly as meaning that the allowance will be restored as soon as the situation warrants. I ask the Treasurer to give an assurance on that point when he replies in this debate. Industry today is disturbed because the Treasurer's remarks about transitional arrangements are not clear. I ask the Treasurer to provide additional information on that point. The Bill extends the allowance to investment in plant and equipment made after 3rd February 1971 provided the expenditure was covered by a contract entered into on or before that date. This provision places at a great disadvantage those companies engaged on a project of which only part has been installed or contracted for before that date. The project would have been undertaken in the expectation that the investment allowance would apply. 
But many projects would be of a nature that require that they be carried through to completion because completion of part only would be useless and would mean a waste of investment. I do not say this will happen but this could be the position if we compare the present situation with that which existed previously. Where these are the circumstances the company is committed to the completion of the project as at 3rd February 1971 every bit as much in respect of that part not yet covered by a contract as it is in respect of the portion contracted for and even installed. In fact, if a company was able to let a contract completely on a turn-key installation basis the entire allowance would be available but if  it  is to be a par* only installation the allowance is not a&gt; ''e. In his second reading speech theeasurer said:   . . the Government is now receiving submissions from industry that the transitional provisions to continue the allowance for plant  acquisitions straddling  the suspension date should apply in a wider range of situations than those in which contracts have actually been  entered  into by 3rd February 1971. 
I trust that the Government will also consider other submissions that may be made to it. The Treasurer should make a firm statement now that the existing provisions will apply not only to the actual contract consisting of a signed document but to the complete costs applicable to the investment. The Treasurer implied in his second reading speech that this could be done by means of amending legislation. Did he mean that a special amendment would have to be introduced in each case? Perhaps it would be better to cover the situation now with a statement of the Government's intentions. Even a provision giving the Commissioner of Taxation a discretionary power would be something, but I suggest that the proper course to adopt is to clarify the position now by stating that expenditure incurred in pursuance of a contract made includes the complete installation costs. I remind the House that the Prime Minister in his statement on 3rd February said that the legislation would include provisions for this transitional period, but in fact it does not. 
Every industry is caught in this same dilemma and is troubled by the confusion that surrounds the interpretation of the Bill. Throughout the textile trade people are installing new machines in order to increase production and cut costs. One does not do this in a year or in one operation. It is not possible to install plant for a new knitting process or for a new spinning process under one contract so that you can comply with the provisions of the Bill. Feasibility studies indicate that the installation of some part, perhaps to be followed by a secondary stage in the next 6 to 12 months, may be necessary, lt is quite unfair to remove at this stage this carrot which has been there to encourage modernisation.. 
In my own electorate Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd presently is installing a No. 3 paper mill at Maryvale. This is a very large extension which will provide a lot more employment opportunities in the Latrobe Valley. It is a very important project to everybody concerned with the welfare of that area. It has taken the company the best part of 3 years to organise this installation and now, like everyone else, it is faced with unnecessary confusion as to what its commitment really is. The company has budgeted for a certain amount, but what really will it have to pay? It has gone ahead in good faith and let a contract for the machine. But that is the least part of the outlay. The machine, for which a contract has been let. is not the major part of the outlay. The big cost is involved in the installation for which no contract can be let because the work is to be done by the company and its own employees. 
John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd is installing a $93m cold rolling strip mill, and it is half finished. The company just cannot have half a cold strip mill. The proposal must go on. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said that the suspension of this investment allowance will not stop the progress which Australia will make, and that it will not stop people from continuing with new projects. But it is not fair to stop in the middle of an expansion programme and change the rules by which one has been working. The whole of the investment at Lysaght's is committed. After some years of feasibility studies a contract has been entered into in good faith, based on what the conditions were at the time when the project was commenced. 
It has taken over 3 years to reach the present stage of development. Evidently the Treasury has not under stood that one does not necessarily have contracts for the work to be performed for the taxpayer. He may do his own work or even provide his own materials. For example, I understand that Lysaght's, in erecting the building to house the mill, will make the sheeting for the building, and you cannot very well let a contract to yourself - or one that would satisfy the Treasury, anyhow. If everything was as simple as the Treasury implies, Lysaght's would have let a contract on a turnkey basis and the full allowance would apply even though the cost would have been much greater. Lysaght's will do a tremendous job in providing a new development in Australia which will give employment to hundreds of thousands of people in other industries, and that will be so valuable that 1 do not think we can afford to put anything in the way of this development. The suspension of this investment allowance will put a damper on what Lysaght's is doing, although I do not think for one moment that it will stop it. 
I should like to make one or two other observations. I come back to the point which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports made about calling this allowance a subsidy. The subsidy, if one likes to call it such, costs the Government very little, but it is of immense benefit to our whole economic system. New plant which reduces manufacturing costs allows an escalating reduction in retail prices, and this is the important consideration of the 20 per cent investment allowance, lt does not itself have much effect on costs per unit. If one tries to balance out the saving that flows from the investment allowance scheme against the increase in throughput, one sees that it is very little. But on a machine which doubles production the cost saving depends on throughput. If it was sufficient the actual effect on costs would be so small that it would be almost negligible. 
The lax concession is a factor which helps the manufacturer to finance the installation of more efficient machinery, and by doing that he makes the savings that we want to see occur. Another point that strikes me is that the measure will not have any budgetary impact this financial year. I think the point has been overlooked that the manufacturer pay tax this year on the basis of his income tax assessment for last year. So the introduction of this measure at this time will not have any impact on the present budgetary situation. It will have an effect on half of next year's income and it will become a full year's budgetary gain for the Government in the year after next. But it always seems to give the Treasury a pain to allow anyone a concession, and it looks as though the Treasury grabbed the opportunity to revoke this allowance in the climate of the present panic about inflationary pressures. 1 should like to comment on another point which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports made, and that is the fact that a similar concession was given on primary industry plant in 1963. In this instance, against the rules of the game, primary industry has followed the manufacturing industry. Primary industry received this concession in 1963, and it is to continue. This has prompted the Taxpayers Association to point out that it is curious that what is said to be inflationary in one area is argued not to be inflationary in another area. I am very much in agreement with the survey by the ANZ banking group which suggests that the problem of inflation facing Australia at present has been greatly overstated in recent weeks. I think that sums up the reasons why I think it was unnecessary to introduce this piece of legislation at this time or for that matter, at any time. 1 am indebted to  Sir Laurence  Hartnett and I am sure he will not mind my quoting him as having criticised the suspension of this investment allowance. He said that we are discouraging manufacturers from purchasing the latest plant and machinery to achieve greater productivity - and I thought we were looking for greater productivity - and to reduce costs. He said that the process of reducing costs and achieving greater productivity is the chief weapon in reducing prices.  Sir Laurence  said that instead of doing this we are bringing in, by mass immigration, more pick and shovel workers, for pick and shovel methods. I do not think that we can afford pick and shovel methods in Australia today. We will be in real trouble unless every honourable member - not only on this side of the House but also on the other side; - is prepared to go ahead and do everything he possibly can to reduce costs and to prevent price increases from getting to the stage where people panic and we get demand inflation. 
I am sorry to say that I do not really approve of the mea.sure. I am afraid that it has got to be carried out because it has been announced as one of the measures that we are taking. But I do ask that the Treasurer in his summing up will make a point of telling us that it is only a suspension 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. I ask: What is the function  at  the Australian Minerals Council? Apart from negative results on the off-shore mining issue has it had discussions on other mining subjects? Will the Minister call for urgent talks on the setting up of a uniform mining code for Australia to replace the present incoherent and quite inadequate State mining raws? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Is the reason behind the withdrawal of a proposal to restrict investment in non-dwelling building construction that the Government's estimate was exaggerated? As it has been shown that the rate of growth manufacturing investment was over-estimated will he now also have the legislation suspending the investment allowance on plant and equipment used in manufacturing withdrawn? 
11804/71-  R- 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. In his discussions with Cabinet about withholding of by-law entry in the motor vehicle industry, as he has just indicated, on the grounds that suitable and equivalent goods are available in Australia, will the Minister also include a requirement that the substitute Australian component will actually work on the motor vehicle otherwise by-law entry will still be allowed? 
As a great admirer of the Tasmanian honey industry, and with a preference for leatherwood honey, I highly commend the remarks made by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies).  I hope that the responsible Minister will give consideration to the honourable member's remarks. In this debate I want to speak about a Tariff Board report on cherries. I want to draw the attention of honourable members to a grave error the Tariff Board has fallen into in its attempt to determine the structure of the cherry industry over the last few years, as is evidenced by the tenor of the reports of the Tariff Board, particularly the annual reports. A grave injustice has been done to a long-standing primary industry by a lack of capacity of the Tariff Board to undertake a review of tariffs on cherries. A review of the tariff has been discussed at great length in this House and it has the support of all honourable members. Before a review is undertaken there should be a review of the capacity of the Tariff Board to undertake this sort of inquiry. 
I have not sufficient time in this debate to present a full case for the cherry industry. It is a very complicated one. Cherries are sold as fresh cherries, brine cherries and preserved cherries. In July 1969 the cherry industry as a whole requested some assistance because of the competition it was receiving from imported preserved cherries. The Special Advisory Authority gave the cherry industry a temporary protection of a 6c per lb tariff in addition to the protection it already had. The matter then had to go to the Board. Last February the Board took evidence and eventually came up with a report dated 13th November 1970 which was tabled in this House only a couple of weeks ago. The Tariff Board made an incredible decision in that it wiped off all the tariff associated with this industry. The fresh cherry fruit is the valuable commodity to the orchardist. Goodness knows, every orchardist has more than enough troubles without marketing a perishable and difficult crop. The best quality cherry goes on to the fresh fruit market and a proportion goes into cans. It is a tremendous help to the orchardist to have a certain proportion of his crop processed by the briners who can take in about 50 tons a day in the glut time which is about 2i weeks in the middle of the season. These cherries are placed in brine and are sold as a useful product to the processers who turn them into preserved cherries or what is commonly known as glazed cherries. 
The Tariff Board heard evidence that the cost of raw materials to the French producers was much lower than it is for the Australian producers of glazed cherries. This is a very debatable point. I do not have sufficient time to go into an examination of the actual cost structure of this, but it is obvious that the Tariff Board has been misled on this particular point. The Board was also told by a gentleman who represented the Shepparton Preserving Co. that in the event of the temporary tariff of 6c per lb being wiped off the industry would not have any difficulty in disposing of its products because his company - the Monbulk company also said this - would take up any surplus. Everybody seemed to think that the normal tariff protection would remain. We all know that SPC got into a rather difficult financial position but the fact remains that the Tariff Board took the company's evidence as gospel, without any proof. SPC had not played ball before. This was only something that it had promised to do. Neither SPC nor Monbulk had taken up any cherries from the 1969-70 crop. 
The Tariff Board report also stated that the industry required too great a degree of protection. Tariff Board reports have been stating that the Board intends to classify industries into certain categories such as for 50 per cent or more protection and 25 per cent to 50 per cent protection. The Board is trying to divert finance into what it calls the low protection areas. That is a dream that is impossible of fulfilment. The Board's report in relation to the Australian preserved cherries industry states that the disability factor is 65 per cent. If one takes the Board's extraordinary system of applying an equivalent rate of protection, one sees that the Board says the rate should be over 300 per cent. I have done some very quick calculations; they will not be accurate to the half cent. The price received by the grower for raw cherries is about 15 cents per lb. After they are put into the brining process the price rises to about 25 cents per lb. This includes the 6 cents per lb rate of duty on brine cherries, converted into its correct terms. The cherries then go to the processors. There are virtually only 3 processors in Australia. I have had to make a fairly wild guess at their costs, but I arrived at a total cost of 45c per lb. That includes the 47* per cent duty, which I estimate at about 12c or 13c per lb, plus last year the 6c per lb that was given by the Special Advisory Authority. 
My total of 45c is a little high because the processors have made statements that their selling price was 54c per lb. I do not imagine that they would be able to make much profit at that price. The protection is 25c per lb. I defy anybody to find 300 per cent equivalent rate of protection in the figures that I have given. I could find no other ingredients that had to be added, except sugar. The Australian processor has to pay $200 a ton for sugar. The French processor has to pay about $100 or $120 a ton; I believe $100 is closer to the mark. That makes a tremendous difference to the final cost. That is why tariffs are imposed. If an Australian manufacturer has certain disabilities such as these, which we impose ourselves, surely we have to protect him. It would not matter if the processor went out of business. There are only 3 in Australia and preserved cherries are a very small portion of their business. But this flows right back to the grower. The Tariff Board having completely misunderstood the position in relation to cherries and not being competent to undertake a full and thorough investigation of the facts, has thrown the industry into confusion. I wish I had another 10 minutes in which to develop further this point. The report of the Board has been tabled. Immediately a report is tabled it is irrevocable. I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  at this late stage to reject the Tariff Board report so that the original tariff rates can be applied. 
No, it is nothing like 300 per cent. I would like to see a return to the tariff rates that applied before the matter went to the Special Advisory Authority. At least that would give the industry the opportunity to get out of trouble. At Silvan $70,000 was spent on new plant. The industry has been thrown into absolute confusion. 
I .'direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. As one of the thousands of people who were inconvenienced. , by a strike last week by some members.. of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association at the State Electricity Commission's plant at Morwell I ask: Will the Minister give the House the facts of this strike? Was the public once again made the victim in a needless, costly strike which should not have occurred and which was one of a series of incidents in which the unions have proved powerless to discipline their own members? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. What is the function of the Industry Economics Branch within the Tariff Board? Which industries has this Branch investigated, and which are currently under scrutiny? Is the information obtained in answers to the questionnaires, which I presume are sent out, made available to all parties concerned in a Tariff Board inquiry? Are the research papers produced by this Branch available to honourable members to be used as a guide to enable them to assess the meaning of Tariff Board reports? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. On what basis does the Government ignore the emphatic and repeated recommendations of its expert advisory body, the National Health and Medical Research Council, solidly supported by advice from the Anti-cancer Council, that Australia should place a total ban on cigarette advertising on television and radio, as has been done in the United States of America, Canada, England, New Zealand, France, Italy, Scandinavia and Russia, in a genuine attempt to reduce one of this century's major health hazards? 
Tonight we are discussing the philosophy of tariffs. If we were to take the philosophy to its logical conclusion we would say that those people who are trying to reduce the incidence of tariffs would create a situation where anybody could buy a Japanese motor car for about $1,000 less than they are paying for it now if we did not have a motor industry in Australia. General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd employs perhaps 100,000 men; I do not know exactly how many people work for that company. There is a suburb of the city of Dandenong called Doveton, the growth of which was made possible by the fact that General Motors-Holden has established an industry in that area and is paying out hundreds of thousands of dollars to people who are now able to buy motor cars, boats and caravans, go away for holidays and really enjoy the very high standard of living we have in Australia. A lot of people at the present time are trying to destroy that picture. 1 do not believe in high tariffs. I make that quite clear. My position in this regard has been criticised a few times and it has been said that I am on the side of every manufacturer who wants an increase in tariffs. I am not. But I am completely opposed to the present method adopted by the Tariff Board in trying to arrive at what it has called the equivalent rates of duty. It has gone right away from the concept for which we have worked over the last SO years in order to introduce something entirely new. I will continue to oppose this as long as I can. I will probably be beaten in the finish but I will continue to oppose it. It is absolutely impossible for Australia to become the great industrial nation which it has the destiny to become unless we can develop the manufacturing industries that can turn our raw materials into something we can sell to the world as secondary products. Some of these will be partly finished, some will be totally finished. Australia has increased its exports of manufactured products from a miserable $50m a year to about $800m last year and this will continue. We have a Tariff Board which has been established for the last 50 years - it was started about the 1920s - and in the last couple of years we have seen it trying to do some absolutely dreadful things to Australian industry. I say this very deliberately because I believe that what it is trying to do will do a lot of damage to Australia if it is allowed to continue this way. 
Today was a watershed in the whole tariff controversy. The Minister for Trade and Industry clearly stated what the Government intends to do in its tariff policy in future. This intention does not tally with what the Tariff Board has been trying to do. I spoke to the Minister for Trade and Industry today about this and suggested that he was providing guidelines on which the Tariff Board would conduct its future inquiries. He said that this was not so, that he was not providing any guidelines which would bind the Board to any action. For many years now we have had only 2 matters which had to be taken into consideration by the Board - whether an industry was efficient and whether it was economic. In the short time I have available to debate a question like this I can only come down to the very hard fundamental facts. The Tariff Board has been providing the Government with information on which it has to make decisions as to whether it agrees with the assessments the Board has made of the protection that is required by an industry. 
When it comes to umbrellas or guitars or the nonsensical things into which the Tariff Board inquires, I would agree that these things are immaterial. It does not matter whether we make umbrellas here or import them from Hong Kong. But it does matter that we have chemicals. It does matter to Australia that it has the industries it is required to have if it is to be of any importance in the world and if it is to have metal manufacturers, car manufacturers and the capacity to supply itself with tanks and heavy commercial vehicles and the needs of war. If we are to be able to produce the things that are necessary to make this country important, we have to have those industries. Up to date the Tariff Board has taken no notice of this. In the last 4 reports it has brought out it has set up a standard and has said: 'The Board will judge whether an industry is of some benefit to Australia purely and simply by the fact that it might need 50 per cent duty, 25 per cent duty or under 25 per cent duty*. 
From my long experience of Australian manufacture - I have been concerned in it - I am quite sure that certain industries which are enjoying a duty of 20 per cent or 25 per cent are just as over-protected as those with a duty of 50 per cent. I can remember back in 1930 or 1931 when industries such as Simpson's - now it is Simpson-Pope - started off on a backyard basis. At that time Vickers was only a small organisation. Then we had a war. In those days a lot of these industries and the Government found that it was absolutely essential for us to rely on our own powers of production. Why should we be dependent on a lot of overseas countries to supply us with goods? Some people would like to obtain all their weedicides and insecticides at what they think would be a lower price from overseas countries which would leave us for dead if the need arose to manufacture these things ourselves. 
If the Government is going to work along those lines and judge an industry purely and simply on whether it is mathematically a high rate industry or a low rate industry, it will be in a lot of trouble. We have to take into consideration the fact that the Tariff Board consists of a group of men - usually it is only 2 men - who examine an industry and who are required to come up with some sort of a recommendation. I do not want to bring the cherries argument into the debate tonight because that argument has been well and truly settled, but it is obvious that the Board's endeavours in this case have been misdirected. The members have not done their homework properly. The research people have not investigated the industry. The Board has not understood the problem confronting it and it has brought out a report which is completely contrary to the best interests of those engaged in that industry. 
As long as this situation remains I shall criticise the Tariff Board for its inability to understand what the problems are. It does not take into consideration the things that have been recognised by the leaders of this country. The members of the Tariff Board are mediocre fellows, as  Sir John  McEwen said. I want to remind honourable members of what  Sir Robert  Menzies said in his John Story memorial lecture. He said that the Tariff Board is purely a statutory body subject to the control of this Parliament. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said today that the Parliament is the supreme body and is the one that is going to make the decisions. But the Parliament did not make the decisions in this case. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  came in here, put the Tariff Board's report down on the table and said that this will apply from 4 p.m. today. Tomorrow everybody will pay the new rate. 
Honourable members have no say about the merits of the case that has been presented to the Parliament. When we get the report we are not told the facts that are behind it. The principal function of the Tariff Board is to consider, by reference from the Government, applications for protection. In doing this in the past the Board has been guided by two points of reference: that the industry be economic and efficient. Unfortunately I do not have time to develop my whole argument, as I would like to do. A couple of weeks ago I put to the Government members trade committee the purpose of protection. I am not concerned with the miserable little products of any individual, whether he is an harmonica manufacturer or whatever he is. The purpose of protection is to attain sustained industrial growth in this country. Australia is destined to become one of the very great countries in the world. Unless we have a history of sustained industrial growth we will not become a great industrial country. We want to achieve this at the fastest possible rate compatible with economic stability. 
These are vague generalities but I. think all honourable members know what I mean when I refer to the fastest possible rate compatible with economic stability. We have to take into consideration the economic objectives of the Opposition if it becomes the Government. I am saying that they would be the same. We would want the people of Australia to have rising standards of living. That is the whole reason why everybody is trying to get increased wages now. Everybody wants more refrigerators, motor cars, boats and caravans. We have to have rising standards of living and we cannot have them unless we have full employment. We cannot have full employment unless we have industries that are capable of employing people, and we cannot have them if we sit back and say: Well, 20 per cent should be enough. That will enable the people of Taiwan to manufacture their products and to bring them into this country. They can have two-thirds of the market and we will have the other third.' I want it to be the other way around - for us to have the market and for them to come in and perhaps provide some of the luxuries. 
We want our people to be fully and usefully employed. Beyond that, if our grandchildren are going to be of any importance in this world, as we would like them to be, they will have to supply other people. Australia is in a unique position, right on the fringe of Asia. We have a market of hundreds of millions of people whom we can supply with the products that they want. For various reasons we are not able to compete in these world markets now in primary production. We will have to compete with them with our secondary industries. It is a strange thing that we find it extremely difficult to sell condensed milk or something like that to these countries but we can sell them fishing rods, golf clubs, louvred windows and other manufactured products. 
There are people, unfortunately, on both sides of this House - I wish they were on only one side - who would handicap our manufacturing industries and make them susceptible to competition from the cheap labour countries. We want in Australia a stability of costs and prices that will enable us to welcome into Australia people who wish to manufacture here carpets, motor cars or anything else. People have been clamouring to come to Australia and to develop industries here, and yet we handicap them immediately by saying that they have to be able to compete with any cheap labour country that likes to make its products available at prices which the Tariff Boad cannot investigate. I defy the Tariff Board to find out the cost of production of a pair of shoes in the People's Republic of China, because it just is not on. Everybody in this House knows that our leather goods industry, one of our traditional great industries, is being decimated because it has to face competition from countries which have entirely different standards of living to ours. 
I suggest that in his speech this afternoon the Minister for Trade and Industry made one small mistake. I welcomed his speech. I think it was marvellous. It was a terrific improvement on anything we have heard for years and years in this place. But he said that the Tariff Board would examine some industries and make some recommendation on the basis of an industry being economic and efficient. He said some guidelines would have to be set and that this would be a matter for the Government. Those guidelines should have been laid down for the Tariff Board so that the Board could take them into account when examining an industry and deciding what protection that industry should have. Unfortunately I do not have time to mention all the things that I think the Tariff Board should consider. A couple of weeks ago I put about 20 points to our Government Members Trade Committee. I suggested that the Tariff Board should take into account such things as employment in an area and the necessity for encouraging industry in an area. The Minister did acknowledge these considerations. Other considerations include an industry's potential, its effect on other industries and how the inputs and outputs of that industry would affect associated industries. In summing up very briefly I would like to say that I think it is essential that our Tariff Board should get away from its mathematical approach. 
 Mr Chairman,  this series of Tariff Board reports covers a multitude of items. One happens to be agricultural machinery. People who support lack of any protection for Australian industries have said that this affects the primary industries. I make the point at this stage that not only the primary industries need protecting. The whole range of our manufacture and of our gross national product needs looking after. If we are to be concerned only with primary industry and come down to the fact that we should be able to obtain all the machinery that we want from overseas without any industry in Australia we have to face up to one or two factors. One of them is that some of our larger agricultural machinery manufacturers do provide a lot of employment. I am told that employment has nothing to do with tariff rates, but this is nonsense. After all, if we have no employment in this country we will have no country. If we are going to put immigration in reverse and send people to live somewhere else because we cannot get them jobs here in factories, which are the only places in which they can get jobs, we are going to be in a pretty sorry state. But in this report on agricultural machinery the Tariff Board has really made a fool of itself. It has given the lie to its own findings. 
In its annual report the Board said that manufacturing industry in this country is subsidised to the extent of $2,700m a year. It puts this figure forward as having some validity. The Board is implying that the people of Australia are paying $2,700m more than they should. Of course, no subsidy is actually paid. We all understand that the Treasury does not pay a subsidy as it does in the case of primary industry which is given money in order to encourage production. So the inference is that the people of Australia are being forced to pay $2,700m more than they should. This comes out in the annual report of the Tariff Board and then there is an inquiry into agricultural machinery, which is fundamental in the whole Australian scene, and we find that the Board cannot support its own argument. If I had time I would like to go on for quite a while and show how in many other things it cannot support its own arguments. In fact, nobody can understand its arguments. 
The tariff in fact is really not an important factor in determining the price for this type of machinery. The Board found in its report that internal competition between local manufacturers reduces prices to below what they would be if demand was met entirely by imports. In other words, the Board is saying that because we have an Australian industry prices are kept to a minimum. The Australian industry was originally started by H. V. MacKay in Sunshine with his stump jump plough and that sort of thing. The industry has been built up over the years to the stage where it has exported agricultural machinery for many years. This is something that we in this country understand better than most people in the world because we are a farming community. We have developed here a farm machinery industry which can defy competition from any other country. 
The Tariff Board itself has said that because we have a competitive farm machinery industry prices are kept at a level which is below what they would be if we had to rely exclusively on imports. The competition between local manufacturers sets prices that do not exploit fully the duties available. In this regard I claim that the Tariff Board has refuted its own arguments, and it is no longer valid for the Board to say that the people of Australia are exploited by the duties imposed on manufactured goods. The report also suggests that the competition between imports was not such as to prevent very large mark-ups to end users. That simply means that those who bring overseas machinery into this country can profit from the belief of some people that because an item is manufactured in a foreign country it must be a little better than something manufactured here. There is not enough competition between those people to prevent very large mark-ups. In other words, the markup on imported machinery is so much higher than the mark-up on locally produced machinery that the farmers of Australia are being exploited by the people who import machinery for which they claim all sorts of fantastic things when our own machinery can do the job a lot better. 
The Tariff Board has said that in some cases the mark-up on the imported goods is up to three times greater than that for locally produced goods. An argument which I have advanced for a long time is that there is more money in the business of importing goods and selling them to the Australian public at inflated prices than there is for the local manufacturers whom we should be looking after. I want to make it clear that I am not just making a plea for a local manufacturer simply because he is a local manufacturer. If the article which he produces is not good enough people will not buy it. However, it has been amply demonstrated that we in this country can make farm machinery which is far and away ahead of the typical machinery produced in other countries. Basically we are a primary producing country. We have the ability to do this, and it is complete nonsense for anyone to suggest that we should sacrifice these local manufacturing industries in order to obtain machinery at a slightly cheaper price because, as the Tariff Board found after a recent inquiry, if we rely on overseas manufactures we will pay a lot more for them than we would by supporting our own local producers. 
Thursday, 29 April 1971 
All honourable members are aware of and are indebted to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  for the interest he has taken in the subject of airports and, more particularly, harbours. He has contributed greatly to their thinking on many aspects of these subjects, but I disagree with him on the need for setting up a select committee to inquire into the development of airports and harbours. From what the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  said, one would imagine that the proposal is to establish a sort of watch dog over the development and construction of existing airports, but I believe the purpose behind the motion is the development of sites for new airports. This has been the subject of discussion in this House on many occasions in respect of the terms of reference of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, but the House wisely decided not to extend the inquiry of that Committee which was inquiring into noise by enabling it to investigate the siting of airports. 
Wherever airports are sited there is noise. It is desirable that airports should be in places where there are no houses. This situation has been achieved at Tullamarine where the airport has been established close to Melbourne in an area where there is limited housing development which would be affected by the fly-over of aircraft. The Victorian State Government rightly and wisely accepted the recommendation not only of the Aircraft Noise Committee but also of other committees which were formed with similar objectives and will limit the number of houses that may be built in that area. The siting of Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport is an entirely different situation. The decision by the Chifley Govern ment in 1946 to site the airport at Mascot was taken because it was thought to be the only suitable area. No one knew at that time that this industry would develop to the enormous size that it has developed. At that time it was the only site available having regard to safety aspects and reasonable access to and from the airport which are so necessary for the development of airport traffic in any big city. Because of the growth of this industry there have been continual demands from the people who were unfortunate enough or unthinking enough to live within ear range of the airport for a diminution of aircraft noise. 
I believe that the recommendation of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise on this aspect has had a very beneficial effect in that the Department of Civil Aviation has been persuaded to go to great pains to ensure that there is the least possible amount of aircraft noise at Mascot airport. Violation of the curfew hours on flying, which has been complained about often, is something which is not a terribly great nuisance to the people in surrounding districts. Surely there are some occasions when it is necessary to run late flights. I was amazed to hear the honourable member for St George condoning the 24-hour use of airports. I am very glad that he has come around to this because in the past he has been most vehement that it should not happen. There is no reason why this should not happen at Mascot because the air traffic can come in over Botany Bay. I think that the people in the St George area would find that to be beneficial. However, that is another subject and I do not want to be diverted. 
I want to speak about the necessity for appointing a select committee to inquire into and report upon the development of major airports. I think that the appointment of such a committee would be wrong. Members of the Opposition have made the point that members of this Parliament - I accept this - know a lot about the areas which would be investigated. Honourable members would be able to get all sorts of information about the suitability of airport sites but we do not have the expertise or technical know how to make a judgment on where a major airport should be located. I know that we could call for all sorts of technical advice but that is not the same thing. The expression that has been used is putting the cart before the horse. I think this is most decidedly a case of putting the cart before the horse. The Department of Civil Aviation has built up in this country a most efficient organisation. The Department has staff which is completely devoted to the expansion of this industry in the best interests of the people of Australia. The Department does not take the best interests to mean the business community or the people who will benefit by travelling, but to mean the people of Australia as a whole. The Department of Civil Aviation is just as concerned about the nuisance value of an airport as it is about the benefits which will flow to an area in which an airport is located. 
The Department is conscious of the fact that an alternative site is necessary. By 1980 it will be essential for Sydney to have 2 major airports. It 19 not just a case of resiting one airport. The proposal of the honourable member for St George is to build a lot of high rise flats. That would be a worse infliction upon the community. The Opposition would abandon the Mascot airport. Abandonment of the Mascot airport would not solve any of our problems. It is unfortunate that the topography around Sydney is unsuitable for the siting of a second airport. In looking ahead I think that the only answer, from a select committee point of view, would be to put the airport at Dubbo or Tuggerah. Honourable members opposite have talked about fast transport. In other countries a lot of airports have been built 50 miles away from the capital but this has not been done in any country which has been able to avoid it. 
No country does it if it can avoid doing so. Each country has to find a locality that it suitable. In England - the honourable member for St. George referred to this - a departmental committee chose a certain site and then a noise abatement committee had a look at that site and chose another site. The matter then went to the Government which made a decision -of course, that is the right thing - which will cost £stg 15Om more. 
The Government made a choice which cost an additional £Stg150m because it took into consideration the facts which were laid before it. 
The case which the honourable member for St George quoted confirms my argument that we should not appoint a select committee to look into the general development of airports. This is a job for the experts. We have available the technical people to do this job. They have had a look at many sites in the Sydney area and all these are under consideration. I might mention that there is a similar study taking place in Melbourne and there are a lot of angry people not very far from where I live who say that their little village should not be obliterated. In the overall picture of what will be best for the nation, bearing in mind the way that this overgrown industry will develop, the experts have to go into all of these things and put the details on paper. When that stage is reached and a definite site is in mind, I would have second thoughts about the appointment of a select committee for this purpose because such a committee, having technical advice and expert recommendations, would be able to look at the different sites and consider the various view points. That committee would be able to examine in closer detail what it would really mean. In the case of the airport at Avalon the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works took it upon itself to say that Avalon should be developed quickly because it was necessary and a matter of urgency. That Committee said that a training airport should be located away from any housing area. The experience of overseas countries has been that wherever an airport has been sited there has developed the need for people to work at it and service it, and other industries develop around it. There is pressure all the time to build up another monster. The noise factor in the development of an airport is vital. Australia has greater need for flying facilities than has perhaps any other country. These facilities are vital to Australia's economy. That is why we have developed such a lot of expertise on this subject. 
Anyone who has travelled around Australia - most honourable members have done so - appreciates the fact that we are continually developing our airports. The Department of Civil Aviation has to keep up with what is going on in the civil aviation field. Personally, I think that airline companies move far too quickly in purchasing new planes. They are developing far more quickly than they should be. They do not have to bear the costs of providing the facilities to take new aircraft; the Government has to provide the facilities. We have set up expert bodies to handle these matters, and I believe that this is the only way in which it can be done. 
I should like to have had time to deal with the question of noise exposure forecasts which has been mentioned. I believe that these forecasts have done a lot of good. The Department of Civil Aviation collaborated completely with the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. We received the utmost cooperation from the Department. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  also has given an assurance in a very long letter to me as the  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, which letter the Committee was very glad to receive, that the Department is doing everything in its power to see that recommendations are made. If we reach the stage where a specific proposal is made for the appointment of a select committee to consider the siting of a particular airport, then I might look at the desirability of adopting that course. But from my experience with select committees I have found that practically all select committees which have been appointed by this House have gone on for too long. I do not think it would be a very good idea to set up a select committee to consider the wide subject which the honourable member for Newcastle has raised. 
I believe that the House and the public must be getting awfully tired of these matters of public importance on subjects that are not thought through and which are expressed in terms that hold the person who submits them for discussion up to ridicule. It is obvious from what the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  has just said that he has an ideal which everyone would love to go along with. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam)  said something about the nationalisation of hospitals, but he then seemed to talk about the old scheme that he favoured, which did not envisage the complete nationalisation of hospitals. He came back to that mystical li per cent of income that his scheme would cost. 1 have said repeatedly in this House that the scheme involving that li per cent is completely impossible of achievement. If the honourable member for Maribyrnong had his way, it would be Hi per cent or some such figure. I would just like to remind him that in our own State of Victoria, as he will be quite aware, we are building a hospital at Moe on the same lines as that which he has just elaborated. So these things are being done to the best of the ability of the States. 
I said that the public must be getting a bit tired of these debates because it seems to me that the Opposition tries to jump on every band wagon in an attempt to pick up a little bit of sympathy. It is no criticism for the Leader of the Opposition to say in his opening remarks that the hospitals are as sick as the people in them. These are the clever, slick words we have heard so often. We all know that hospital finances have been under very great strain for a long time. They always have been and I rather suspect that they always will be in spite of the idealism I have heard this morning from a couple of members on the other side. The first fact I want to establish is that the hospitalisation of people is essentially, basically and definitely a State responsibility. The Commonwealth has entered the field by providing aid from time to time because of its desire to assist the States, not because it has the responsibility. It recognises that State finances are strained considerably. The demand for hospital services has increased enormously. The expanding range of drugs, medical procedures and techniques also have helped to increase hospital costs but, in another respect, they have reduced them by making a patient's stay in hospital shorter than it used to be. 
The second fact that I want to stress is that overall the national scheme provided by the Commonwealth Government to the people of Australia is still the best in the world. I have said that very often in this House. If we examine the services available to Australians and if we consider what they are able to obtain we see that, in respect of hospital needs, there is no delay in obtaining a bed when it is essential. I know that honourable members could quote occasions when somebody has been run from hospital to hospittal trying to find a bed but, taken overall, our hospital services in respect of bed availability are far ahead of what conditions are in other countries of the world. 
Of course they get a choice. The honourable member will not nail me down to an individual case in which somebody is told: 'You go in there) or else'. I would love to have enough time to deal with the case of my own wife who was sent into a hospital in Melourne with the words: 'You go there or else'. That was the worst thing that ever happened to her. 
The statement has been made that pensioners are imposing a burden on the States and that this burden should be assumed by the Commonwealth.  Sir Henry  Bolte has been very outspoken on this point. But he chooses to forget the States have always given pensioners free treatment; this is part of their contribution to social services and existed long before the Commonwealth came to the rescue with $5 a day with respect to hospitalisation of pensioners. This has been the traditional state of affairs. 
Most decidedly. This is the responsibility of the States. If I presume that the Opposition is genuine in saying that it would take over the cost of this service entirely, this means that the Commonwealth would need to provide only another $250m and this would make no difference to the overall cost of hospitalisation and so on! So, where does the li per cent mentioned by the Opposition get us in relation to costs imposed on the Commonwealth? 
This matter of public importance proposed for discussion is so badly worded as to say that the 'Commonwealth has made no increase'. The Opposition points out to the difficulty experienced in the treatment of low income patients. It seems to have overlooked completely the subsidised health insurance scheme under which the Commonwealth pays Commonwealth and fund benefits - both benefits - in respect of low income earners, persons on the unemployment benefit, persons receiving the sickness benefit, and migrants. The expenditure last year on this item was $3. 6m only. I would have thought that the amount would be greater than that but I am quite sure that as this scheme becomes better and better known and as people take advantage of it, the amount required will increase greatly. 
The important point is this: This debate has been inspired by the increase in hospital fees in Victoria from $10 to $15 in respect of public wards and corresponding increases for other wards. The hospitals will be reimbursed to the full $15 a day in the same way as they are being reimbursed today at the rate of $10 a day. The rate of contribution by the Commonwealth is increasing all the time. 
Special accounts have been mentioned. I do not need to go into any detail on this subject beyond saying that the contribution by the Commonwealth through special accounts last year in this respect was $16m. Honourable members opposite cannot say that the Commonwealth is not helping or that there has not been an increase in the Commonwealth contribution. Because of the fact that hospital rates have been increased in Victoria by 50 per cent, next year this amount of $16m plus approximately $4m in respect of the subsidised health insurance scheme will rise by 50 per cent. So, approximately $30m will be coming from the Commonwealth Government. This is considerable assistance. 
I would like to go into a great amount of detail as to what will happen with regard to the hospital benefit funds. Increases in the contributions to be paid will occur. But is not everything increasing? Did I not read today of an extraordinary claim in which one union is seeking to increase the wages of its members by up to $39.40 a week? Of courses increases are occurring. Unfortunately this is one of the facts of life. The Opposition could help the community in this respect much better by dampening down such moves rather than making continual extravagant statements supporting them. 
Contributions to medical and hospital benefit funds will need to be increased. I mention both 'medical' and 'hospital' funds although today we are deaing with hospitals only. The increases that have been announced in Victoria are tailored to fit in with the formula under which hospital benefits contributions and payments are made. It is obvious that as from 1st July, if these rates apply from that date, it will be necessary for the funds to have made arrangements for the rate of contributions to be changed so that hospitals will receive full reimbursement as they do now. 
Finally 1 mention something which has not been referred to already. This is that, in the nursing home field, the Commonwealth last year spent $47m. This may not be direct expenditure on hospitals, but the very fact that thousands of beds are available in the health field to this section of the community means that the Commonwealth is making a great contribution. I conclude by pointing out that, with co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth - apparently the Opposition does not appear to believe in this - slowly and surely our health scheme is being improved all the time. It is still better than any health scheme anywhere else in the world. In the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Canada or anywhere else a patient will not get the same beneficial treatment that is available to the Australian people today. 
Why are you prolonging it then? 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  referred quite often to the report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices when he quoted the numbers of agreements that have been registered. I point out that the vertical ones are not registrable. So, most of what he said is completely irrelevant to the whole subject. But let me express my views on this matter. I would like to point out that this is a popular measure or at least one that is being brought on because it was thought to have popular appeal. But there is another side to it as well. Over the last few weeks I have been talking to some country shopkeepers and their reaction is not a very happy one. They do not regard it as a popular measure. Last night I rang a friend of mine who I knew would have a pretty fair idea of what was going on iri this field because he is concerned in it and I asked his opinion. He gave it concisely. He said it was an idiot thing to disrupt our present system, but after I had talked to him for a while he told me not to do anything about it because, since it Ls a popular move, I should be cautious about opposing it. He said: 'You can't win. Everybody loves a bargain.' That is what the whole thing is based on. I suppose all the people who brought things from H. G. Palmer thought they were getting bargains,, but I doubt whether it can be fairly argued that the disruption of trade caused by H. G. Palmer was in the public interest. It inflicted losses on the whole of the community by over-trading, throwing away discounts and trading in anything at all. Manufacturers were left with their accounts unpaid. Is this in the public interest? This is the result of cutting prices, as everybody seems to want to do. Any fool can sell goods by cutting prices but one has to have a reasonable margin over costs if one is to stay in business. In his second reading speech the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  used the phrase 'passing on the results of his efficiency to the consumer by a reduction in price'. He also said that pressure might be brought on a manufacturer to keep his prices up. This is sadly away from the real facts of the business world. It is right off the beam. 
The objective of the manufacturer is to produce good products as well as he can and then get them into the hands of the public as cheaply as he can. No manufacturer wants his distributors to get more profit than is necessary. He is the one who wants the profit. He is the man with the ideas who is coming out, developing something and putting it on the market. He has to have a distribution chain, of course, but he is not bolstering up his retail price just to put more money than is necessary into the hands of the retailer. This is a completely wrong concept. The lower the price at which he can get it on to the market in the retail shop the more potential customers he has, provided that he can create a demand. Demand for so many products is created through national advertising. Is this to be eliminated? Are we going to lose all the information that comes to people to let them know what sort of goods they can get? This is the logical conclusion we come to if we take this process as far as it can go. I do not say it will be lost completely because these are not black and white areas, as has been pointed out. They are extremely grey areas. I am not much concerned about the cheap goods from the cheap stores such as Coles and Woolworths which, incidentally, have done more damage to manufacturing than anything we have bad inflicted on this community for many years. I am talking about the quality products that are sold under a reputable brand name. I believe they should be given some protection. lt is very easy to see that this Bill is a lawyer's Bill. The legal mind does not seem able to cope with the practical difficulties that are met in the market place. I believe this Bill will inflict great damage on the thousands of small shopkeepers who are already being hit by the superior buying power of the supermarkets, the group buyers, the discount houses, the group bulk stores and so on. The Minister has said that the Government has taken into account the experience of other countries with free enterprise economies. It has come to the conclusion, he says, that in general the practice of price maintenance, that is the suppliers stipulating the minimum price that must be charged on the resale of their products, is against the public interest. He quoted the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, South Africa, France, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Spain, Norway, Finland and the United States of America. But what sort of comparison is this? If we leave out the United States, Canada and South Africa, any one of these other 9 would fit inside Victoria alone. They have a density of population that makes our conditions quite different from theirs. . 
The United States is quoted as an example. The United States has its Sherman anti-trust laws dating back to 1890, but by 1930 a lot of the States had found that these were not such a good idea and they have introduced fair trade laws permitting resale price maintenance because of the damage that was being done to the small shops. I know that a lot have come and gone since. Appeals have been made and again the lawyers have had a good time. In some States it was found that resale price maintenance was unconstitutional so it had to be dropped, but in a lot of States it is still operating. In some of the other States they have exempted resale price maintenance agreements on branded products' which are in free and open competition with other goods of the same general class. Why should a manufacturer not be able to put his name proudly on a product and see it through to its logical place in the home of the sort of people to whom he wants it to go without these discount houses completely ruining the whole objective that he has been trying to attain? 
We want a system that works in Australia. I am not concerned with what is done in all these other countries. We will not get a system that works in Australia by upsetting the existing structure and our wholesale-retail chain of distribution. Shopkeepers in Warragul, Moe, Korumburra, Wonthaggi, Pakenham, Morwell and other towns and villages throughout the electorate of McMillan must suffer if this craze for increased competition is allowed to develop to the absurd point where everyone will go to Dandenong or Melbourne to get their supplies because they can get them there cheaper. One day a person will go to get something from his local store only to find that the shopkeeper has not got it because all the time he has been going away chasing cheap prices he has been ruining the marketing conditions in that country town. Australian manufacturers have enough trouble now. They have a very hard time battling with the competition among themselves plus the restraining influence of a tariff structure which is designed specifically to allow reasonable competition from British manufacturers, and they are battling internally to prevent the flood of cheap tools, knitwear, cotton goods and electrical goods and all the thousands of items that are coming into Australia today from the cheap labour countries. 
Australia is a huge land with wide open spaces. It costs $1 0,000 or $12,000 a year to put a salesman out on the road to show products to the people in the country. We get the comparison with the United Kingdom, but in the United Kingdom one provincial salesman can go out and can cover a market of  5  million or  6  million people in a week. How many men would it take to do this in Australia? The cost of maintaining such a system would have to be found somewhere. We will not find it by selling everything as cheaply as we can in supermarkets in the cities... If we kill the distribution pattern that has. been worked out on . the basis of the experience that people in our country towns have had it means that what goes out into the country will be only the .dregs. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  mentioned this a little in his speech. He did not think that people, in country areas would be very happy. I arn emphasising it because I know they will be most unhappy. 
Once the distribution chain goes and the profit margin is cut down beyond the point where it pays to operate-, the country store has no chance of budgeting and orderly marketing as we know it now must suffer. The country storekeeper will not get the variety to choose from and he will not be able to get the service from the people who supply the goods. He will not be able to give the service to the people who want it. in the country towns. It is all very well to consider the bulk lines. The farmer likes to. get his binder twine dirt cheap. But when he wants to buy some of the spares and odds and ends that he does not buy at bulk rates, he wants the store in the town to be there so that he can go down the street and get them. 
With price maintenance gone and the profit margins cut the small trader will not know where, to turn for stock on which to make a profit and a lot of these people will be looking for other jobs. I think we have seen enough of the chaos of cut price marketing in the petrol business. The public loves it because everybody loves to save a few cents or dollars. As I said, I cannot win this argument that I am advancing because everyone loves a bargain - no-one more than I. But the position becomes intolerable when there is no longer any margin for service, when it does not pay to carry a stock of spares or a wide range of sizes, styles and colours. It is the final purchaser - the public- who loses out when the country store can no longer carry a choice of goods and sell them to advantage because there is not enough profit and business is given to city emporiums and the cut price discounters. 
I turn now to the specific points of objection which I have to the Bill as it stands. I believe it needs an amendment to give some protection to the supplier. But has this been explained to me? The honourable member for Isaacs said in his speech that nobody will be forced to supply anybody with goods; that the only restriction is to be on asking somebody to sell- at a set price. This is not mentioned specifically in the Bill - I think it ought to be- because every phrase in it is directed to the' reseller. The Minister said in his speech -that it will not be an offence to withhold supplies unless the reason is solely that the seller will not agree at a stipulated' price:- The Bill makes it illegal for a supplier to ask for an agreement to sell at a stipulated price. Therefore how can you refuse! to supply because the fellow will not sell, at your price when you are not allowed to set. a price under the terms of the Bill?  ' 
This means that any shopkeeper can demand the delivery of goods from any supplier in his particular line of business. Where does this leave the supplier who has built up a distribution system involving the giving of a franchise? Even if there is not an agreement legally taken ,out for sole distribution, such as happens for example with motor cars or cosmetics, and sometimes some electrical goods, there are cases where the supplier prefers his product; to be sold in a certain way, through a certain type of shop. I believe that that supplier has just as much right to select the outlet for his products as the reseller has to. select which products he will sell in his shops. I specifically ask the Minister to make a much clearer declaration of this effect than his present nebulous statement that it will not be an offence if, for example, the reason for withholding supplies is a doubt : as to the creditworthiness of the reseller - that is fair enough - or some other substantially commercial reason. I think that other, substantial commercial reason needs a little more elaboration to indicate exactly what is meant. 
Another point to which I would like to draw the attention of honourable members is the definition of loss leader. It is defined in the Bill as selling a product at less than cost. This is a very common practice, particularly in the superman and that type of shop which is trying to attract people. Obviously this wipes out any sense there might be in referring to it at all because products are not usually sold at less than cost. Shopkeepers sell products at less than cost perhaps if they are getting to the end of the line, if there is a broken line or if something new has come in and made a product obsolete. Loss leaders are sold at a lower price and a much better definition would be: Goods sold not for the purpose of making a profit but for attracting customers likely to purchase other goods or for simply advertising the business. Under the definition in the Bill, before anyone can refuse to supply goods on the grounds that a person has been using that line as a loss leader, the supplier has to show that the retailer has been selling the line for less than it costs. This, in fact, is going much too far because as long as the retailer sells it at cost the supplier cannot object to it. 
There is in business today a growing tendency towards a decline in retail price maintenance. This is clear. This is the way in which business is developing. Competition is extremely fierce and a lot of manufacturers are very happy to have retailers cutting the prices of their goods in the hope that they will sell more of them. But this does not do the community any good really. They may sell a few more items. I referred a little while ago to Coles and Woolworths, the companies which are selling so much of the cheap stuff: A manufacturer might supply them with a product at  a  certain price. The companies put it into their stores and find that it goes pretty well, but they sell it so cheaply that the other small shops no longer want to handle that product because they cannot make a profit out of it. Then Coles will say that they want to make the product cheaper still. What happens then? They cut out the quality. That is my objection to the whole concept of the Bill of asking people to sell something at  a  price that is not economical. 
Competition is sufficiently fierce amongst manufacturers in branded lines. Where there is a branded line competing with another branded line, the manufacturers will see to it that competition keeps the prices down and that the line does get into the public's hands at the cheapest price. This is called dynamic marketing, aggressive firms wanting to cut prices. What the retailers should be doing if they want to supply a particular good is asking the manufacturer, who has a reputation to protect, for permission to retail that line under their own brand and cut the price in that way. . 
-I thank the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  for giving me about 2 minutes to speak in this debate. All I want to say is that I think he must be awfully lonely on the Opposition benches, if what he has just said represents his views on the income tax situation in Australia. I have been amazed to find that so many members of the Opposition seem to feel that any sort of investment in Australia or any attempt to develop this country is bad for the country. I am delighted to hear that there is at least one honourable member on the Opposition side who realises that the investment that is being made in Australia today by overseas people gives us the things which the rest of the world has - the know-how, as the honourable member said, and the machinery with which to develop industries and thereby give employment to our people. I have risen to make this one little point. I believe that it is marvellous to have somebody on the other side recognising that Australia will be a very great country provided we continue the way we are going now and do not socialise it out of existence. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Following recent statements by 
Queensland Mines Lid substantially downgrading its first estimates of uranium oxide in the Nabarlek deposit, can the Minister indicate the overall position now regarding the uranium deposits in the Northern Territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. The Minister will be aware of criticism directed at the amount of finance offered by the Commonwealth for State housing in the Budget Will he indicate to the House how these offers compare with the amounts made available in previous budgets? 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  has used his full entitlement of a quarter of an hour and taken up the time of the House when he knows that a lot of other honourable members want to speak. I would suggest that this matter is one on which many people are waffling and saying what they would do and what they would not do, trying to make good fellows of themselves by telling us how hard they work in their electorates. If they got up, spoke up and shut up we would not need to sit anywhere near as long as we do and we would not need to sit an extra day of the week. But this place being what it is we have to take people as they come. 
That includes me. This prepared amendment shows the complete immaturity of the honourable members who have moved it. They are only new to the place so they do not really understand what is going on. They have not caught up yet and are not likely to do so for a long time. I am all in favour of sitting on the Tuesday morning. I think it is a complete waste of valuable time to shut this House on Tuesday morning. 
1 know that Cabinet Ministers say that they must have time to sit but they can sit during the rest of the week. They do now. The honourable members who sit on committees and are paid for doing so say that they must have the time to sit. They can sit on Mondays. It . is a paid job and they should be prepared to do it and not sit and take a sitting fee on the day that the House is sitting. I know I have done it myself for years but I am just stating the facts. So we should be sitting on Tuesday morning. We should be sitting full time 3 days a week at least. There is nowhere near enough time given to the consideration of Bills. It has been rightly said by many honourable members that the volume of business has become so large now that it is impossible for Bills to be given full consideration. There is no opportunity given for them to be considered at the Committee stage. They are put through before honourable members have had time to sit down' and examine them. But for anyone to say that in exchange for Tuesday morning we should rise at 6 o'clock on Thursday is completely ridiculous. Only a few people from Sydney could get home. Even honourable members travelling to Melbourne could not get home. The last aeroplane leaves at 5.45 p.m. and they would have to leave here at 5.15 p.m. So the same old story that we have now on Friday would be repeated. 
I just want to add one more thing and that is that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said that the 4-day week had not been given a fair trial and this is quite right. We did make a change to the 4-day week at the suggestion of the Standing Orders Committee and now for some reason or other pressure has been put on and we have decided to go back to the old 3-day week. If it had been tried properly and we had had committees meeting on the Monday before the Tuesday sitting and on the Friday after the Monday to Thursday sitting of the second week we would have been able to do a lot more of the committee work that is sadly neglected in this place. The honourable member for Wilmot said that while the House was sitting yesterday he spent 2 hours attending 2 separate meetings. I know that this is done, but this is not the way in which the Parliament should be run. I make the plea that at some time or other honourable members should consider whether it would not be much better for them to return to their electorates every third week instead of every fourth week. I would prefer to keep in touch with the people in my electorate by being able to see them every third week instead of every fourth week as is proposed. Unfortunately, the amendment was not properly thought out. 
 I am terribly disappointed with the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  The closing remarks that he made were not worthy of him but they do show the poverty of mind of members of the Opposition in their approach to this sort of subject. All I want to say - and he has taken up very valuable time which he had agreed not to do - is that for several years 1 have been trying to bring a different approach to this question of the repatriation payment. Everybody seems to be bedazzled by the actual rate and we hear all sorts of arguments - we have had them repeated today again and again - about what the rate of this is and what the rate of that is. But this is not the point. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  in his opening remarks in the second reading speech very rightly said: 
The purpose ot the Bill is to give effect to the Government's proposals in the repatriation war pension Held. 
The payments thai we are talking about are war compensation payments. They have nothing to do with pensions. They have nothing to do with an assessment of an amount on which somebody should be living. We have heard repeatedly about the number of people who are to get such and such a rate of pension. I am not concerned about the rate. I believe that totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners should be getting a lot more. I would propose that they should get a lot more if they needed it. It is important that the men in need receive assistance. I believe it is quite wrong that the unfortunate Digger who does need a service pension should have his repatriation war compensation payment included in his income for means test purposes. I believe there is an irrefutable case for the contention that these payments, which are purely for compensation, have no bearing whatsoever on a man's earning capacity. He receives compensation because his earning capacity is limited by something that has happened, but many of these fellows are still able to earn just as much money. They receive compensation because they suffered a disability caused by war service. 1 will not take up any more time because this afternoon it is limited. I would love to spend half an hour discussing this matter. I believe that future representations from the Returned Services League. TPI organisations and everybody else making representations to the Government on repatriation matters should be on the basis that a means test for a service pensioner should be along the same lines as that applied to applicants for an age pension. If an ex-serviceman is disqualified by the means test, he does not get the service pension, ff a TPI pensioner has quite a reasonable income, as so many of them have, there is no suggestion that his pension should be reduced because he happens to be in more fortunate circumstances than others; but some TPI pensioners are simply not able to work. Their wives have had to look after them and nurse them. I could continue for a long time on that point but I will not. Those people do need the extra payments. If the TPI pension and all other compensation payments were not regarded as income they would be able to get the service pension when in need of it. That is all I have time to say this afternoon, if others are to enter this debate. 
I do not think the reasons stated in the amendment are really a fair and proper ground for having the Post and Telegraph Bill withdrawn. It might be an expression of opinion from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who always looks at this type of Bill carefully. I suppose that in some ways one could agree with him but I certainly do not agree that his amendment is sufficient ground for having the Bill withdrawn. In fact, being one of the budgetary Bills it is necessary that it be passed in its present form. That does not mean that we are happy about all its provisions. I shall say a few words about a matter about which I have had some correspondence with the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme),  that is, the cost of television and broadcasting licences to proprietors of hotels and motels. It is  a  fairly complicated question and I can see some of the difficulties that the Minister has raised about giving any concession in this area, but I would like to put on record some of the feelings that have been expressed to me by people who run these places and who have to find the money. 
The tourist industry is regarded as one of the up and coming industries that will be of great benefit to a lot of areas not only in the city but also in the country. These days more and more motels are being built to cater for the people who move round from place to place and also the people who make a point of going to some place purely for holidays - the true tourists. But the people who use hotel and motel rooms very largely are those people moving around on a casual basis, perhaps travellers or business men of all sorts, who have to go to some area for some particular purpose. People visiting friends or relations in an area may not want or may not be able to stay with their friends or relations and may stay at a motel: 
One of the amenities that it has become customary for motels to provide is television. Of course they provide radio facilities too. It has come to be recognised that everywhere we go these days we expect to find these facilities available. The motel proprietor, perhaps, starts off in  a  country town with half a dozen or a dozen rooms and he puts  a  television set in each one, and as the business flourishes he perhaps puts on another few rooms. I have in mind one town in my electorate where 40 rooms are being added to  a  motel at the present time. This involves the installation of 40 television sets, on which the Government collects sales tax of  27 i  per cent, which is quite  a  useful contribution to revenue. The proprietor is required to pay for each set in use  a  combined television-radio licence fee - presumably there will be a radio set in each lodge as well - of $26.50. This is  a  very considerable outlay. It may be shrugged off by saying: 'After all, this is only 50c  a  week. It is only 7c  a  night. 
Why worry about it?' But in any business it is all these costs which mount up and make it more difficult to make a profit. It is these charges that push costs up that little bit more all the time. 
Unfortunately, although there is great activity in the motel business, according to some statistics I saw quite recently, the occupancy figures are alarming. One of the very good new motels in Sydney which is certainly far too expensive - I cannot afford to stay there myself - is operating on an average occupancy rate of 11 per cent. I do not see how the proprietors can make it pay. Other establishments are operating on an occupancy rate of 30 per cent or 40 per cent. The motel business is like the airline business. A certain occupancy is required to give a certain return on which charges can be based. I suppose that if an establishment has an occupancy rate of 60 per cent or 70 per cent it is doing pretty well. It' is only during the peak times that motels have 100 per cent occupancy. 
The whole question of whether they should be required to have a licence for each television set is related to the fact that the Broadcasting and Television Act provides that the keeper of a lodging house shall not cause, suffer or permit a receiver to be in any room or any part of the lodging bouse occupied or available for occupation by lodgers or tenants unless there is attached, to the receiver in a prescribed manner an appropriate current lodging house licence. The licence is supposed to be attached to the back or inside the back of the receiver. Since I found that out I have had a look at a few television sets in motels but 1 have never found one with  a  licence attached to it. I daresay that a licence is kept in the office. This law was evidently brought in to distinguish these licences from the ordinary licence which  a  person takes out for a television set in his own home under which he can have as many receivers as he likes. In fact, it is advocated that a person should have one television set for himself and one for the children so that he can look at the programmes he wants to see and does not have to look at what the children want to see. A person could have  a  television receiver in every room in the house but he would be required to pay for only one licence. 
There is some reason why there should be only one address to which a licence is applicable, but then there is the problem of flats. Of course the problem here is that each flat, being occupied by one family or person, would be regarded the same as a house and so naturally the tenant of each flat al one address would be obliged to have a licence. Then we have the lodging house such as the Kurrajong Hotel in Canberra where we all live in little rooms  ofl  a passage way. It is quite possible that any one of us would like to have his own private television installed in his room in his name. This is the type of lodging house which I believe the Act was originally designed to cover. Under those circumstances the person who had that set installed, one would expect, would pay the licence for it. But with motel accommodation there is at one address a lot of rooms and the proprietor is bound to take out a licence for whatever television requirements there are. In a motel or hotel a licence may cover television sets in half a dozen bars or half a dozen public rooms. There may be one television in the dining room, one in the drawing room and one in the writing room. The proprietor may have one licence for as many sets as he wishes as long as they are available to the public. At the Kurrajong Hotel there is a separate television room in which all the tenants can sit and look at the television. If necessary, a hotel may have television sets in 4 rooms covered by one licence so that the public can have a choice of channels. 
But a motel is regarded as something different from the original concept of a lodging house as defined in the Act and motel proprietors are required to take out a separate licence for each television set in each unit. This seems to me to be rather overdoing it. The people who. will watch television in a motel room are only casual itinerants. They are staying in the motel perhaps for one night only. How many of them actually turn on the television? It is very nice to be able to say: 'Yes, we have television'. When an interesting fight or something like that is to be televised  1  daresay that travellers make a point of getting to their accommodation in time to see that fight and sit back in comfort in their rooms and watch it. But under normal circumstances it is very doubtful whether these sets are used very much and whether they have the continuity of use that is necessary to get any value out of a licence fee. There is also the fact, as I mentioned before, that many of the rooms would be unoccupied on some nights of the week, perhaps even on several nights. 
The Postmaster-General has seen fit to make some distinction when it comes to the people who hire out television sets. They do not have to take out a licence for each set at the full amount of the yearly subscription. They are permitted to pay according to the number of sets they hire each month. So instead of paying the full amount they pay only for the period during which each set is used. This very important consideration which is given to them should be passed on to the people running hotels and motels. But it would be extremely difficult for any hotel or motel proprietor to work out the number of nights that a set was used in order to ascertain the monthly fee, as the television rental people do. This means that we really need a slightly different approach in their case. 1 have suggested to the PostmasterGeneral that it may be feasible to give a reduction of perhaps one-third or twothirds in the fee. I would not lay down any hard and fast rule but' some consideration should be given to the fact that today these people represent a pretty big bulk order. In view of the number of rooms in hotels and motels, their licence fees these days are a magnificent contribution to the running costs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission though very little real value for their contribution is obtained. I do not get full value for my own television set and I do not want anyone to give me a deduction on that account, but where it is a commercial proposition and people are trying to run a business and trying to provide accommodation for people at reasonable prices and at a time when we are trying to encourage the tourist industry, I believe it is a worthwhile case for some adjustment to be made. 
Another matter that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned in his speech was the payment of higher rates for telephone charges and trunk calls in the country. I pay full tribute to the PostmasterGeneral's Department, the telephone section in particular, for providing a very effective and efficient operation. Subscriber trunk dialling has been an absolute Godsend to a lot of places because it cuts out all the trouble that we have with manual exchanges. Although manual exchanges are very good and one could often get through just as fast, it always seems difficult when one lifts the receiver to wait for the operator to answer because she was dialling someone else. Even when dialling the trunk call operator there is often a little delay, and one feels so much more satisfaction if one can merely pick up the receiver and dial the number required. 
STD is very good, but it is not only country industries which are penalised because higher telephone charges cost them more to run their businesses. City businesses also have the same problem. They have to telephone the country. One quick example I will cite honourable members is the wholesale pharmaceutical houses which have a programme of telephoning chemists a couple of times a day to find out their orders. This is part of the service but it is pretty expensive when they telephone on a trunk call charge basis. It has been suggested for many years that if we are ever to take decentralisation seriously the Commonwealth Government has to assist the States to get people into the country. There was an interjection in the House a couple of days ago when an honourable member opposite said that Government members always say that decentralisation is a State responsibility. It is a State responsibility. At the present time the New South Wales Government is doing a very good job on it. The Victorian Government has now started an even more advanced programme by which the Victorian Government will knock at the door of every manufacturer to see what prospects there are of manufacturers going into the country. The Government knows that there will be a big advantage to manufacturers if they do. 
One of the very few ways in which the Commonwealth Government can help in these programmes relates to the cost of telephone calls. I have known of at least half a dozen businesses, small manufacturers, which have opened in country towns within the electorate of McMillan and which have been driven to the city by 2 things, one being the high cost of their telephone calls and the other being that deliveries could not be made by just popping around the corner in a utility and giving very quick service. The latter problem they might have been able to get over by holding suitable stocks in a warehouse in Melbourne but the continual drain of the high telephone charges was far too much. I was delighted to note in an answer to a question the other day that the Department was studying this matter and that the Postmaster-General was expecting a report. 1 hope that when the report is made all honourable members will have access to it to see what it really means, and that we will have the opportunity of putting forward bases on which charges could be evened up so that the city could absorb some of the high costs of the country areas. One other matter in that respect is that in the city people can talk on the telephone indefinitely. They are not given any 3-minute limit as with trunk calls or the metering on STD calls. City people pick up a receiver and make a local call - I know one can do that in the country too - but if those people who talk for 20 minutes or half an hour on the telephone had to pay on a trunk call basis sufficient money would be coming in to make up the amount lost in reducing the cost of trunk calls to and from the country. 
The only reason I have risen to speak in this debate is because there has been such a spate of New South Wales representatives attempting to speak on matters about which they know nothing. I exclude the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who have had the benefit of their experience as members of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise in coming to grips with this problem. 
Yes, 1 am sorry, and so has the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  That Committee did examine a lot of problems related to airports. The main point I want to raise is that it would be an absolute tragedy if we were to interfere with the Royal Australian Air Force base at Richmond. The members of that Committee had a look at the base. They had the advantage of being able to see the base and to talk to the personnel there. Some members of that Committee know something about the RAAF. Having been in the Royal Australian Navy it may surprise some honourable members to know that 1 have some background knowledge of the RAAF. We know that Richmond is a centre of absolutely vital importance to the defence of Australia, ft would be completely wrong for anyone to try to move this base from its present location and you could not operate at Richmond a joint civil and Air Force establishment as is done in Canberra. It is in a main strategic position to support the defence requirement of Sydney and Newcastle. 
Williamtown is a separate establishment. The honourable member does not understand. At Richmond we have a base on which the whole of our logistics depend. If Richmond is to be used as a site for a second airport we would have to include the area used by the agricultural college. This is another reason why there would be interference to something that is already contributing greatly to the welfare of the people of Australia. In taking a decision on the location of a second airport we should bear in mind the position of the mountains. People who have studied civil aviation know that they cannot put in a flight path in the area of the Blue Mountains and aviation authorities are reluctant to have approach and take-off runways in the direction of mountains. 
As we are considering in this debate the future development of civil aviation I want to register a vote of gratitude to the personnel of the Department of Civil Aviation. It was wrong for honourable members to suggest that these people had wasted time, had not known what they were doing, and were not serious in examining this proposal. Anyone who has had any dealings with them will know that these officers have examined the' whole situation thoroughly and have done everything possible to examine every aspect. It  is  wrong to suggest that members of the Parliament would be able to do the technical work involved in imposing a possible runway pattern on an area of 'land and in determining whether such an area was suitable. Officers of the Department have devoted hours of diligent work in trying to determine the most suitable place for an airport. Places like Duffy's Forest, which seems to worry the honourable member for Robertson,  (Mr Cohen),  are not big enough. Insufficient land is available. Sydney is handicapped because its terrain is unsuitable. 
It may be that the second airport should be located at Dubbo, but such a proposal would be in the distant future. However if members opposite suggest its location at Dubbo, why do they not suggest establishing the airport at Broken Hill and making a job of it? In that way something real would be done to aid decentralisation. The honourable members for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  St George  (Mr Morrison)  and Kingsford-Smith want the airport located away from their areas. They want to inflict the airport on the people of Dubbo. This is a crazy attitude. What would the people of Dubbo say in future years about those members who inflicted aircraft noise on them? I am most conscious of aircraft noise and have done much work in trying to reduce the effects of such noise. I believe the Government is following the right course. When the Government has said that the noise problem will be reduced, it has meant it. The Government's claims are based on facts and on technical information which are available to anyone who studies the subject. The noise value of the 747 aircraft is less than that of the 707 aircraft and future aircraft will be made even less noisy. I cannot understand why those honourable members from New South Wales whose electorates are affected by operations from the Sydney airport do not have the gumption to allow the curfew to be lifted at Mascot. 
The whole thing is simple. At terrific expense runways are being extended into Botany Bay. Much thought went into this project and the whole proposal was calculated. If those runways are used the people of Marrickville will not be worried by noise, so why should the curfew be not lifted on the condition that aircraft take off and land over the Bay? The proper place for the extension of the Mascot Airport is Towra Point. This is so obvious. I am not worried about whether  Mr Gorton  and the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  have some feelings on this because that is unimportant. The second airport should be at Towra Point and it could be run in conjunction with Mascot. 
No, of course not. The Mascot Airport has been developed at enormous cost and as a result of considerable technical determination. A magnificent job has been done in taking advantage of every bit of ground available and work has proceeded under extreme difficulty. Already there are 2 cross runways. It is no good members opposite talking of parallel runways as something new. 1 have known about parallel runways for probably the last 8 to 10 years. Plans for those runways were shown to members of a parliamentary committee which was examining proposals for extensions to the Mascot Airport and for the development of the international terminal building. Parallel runways have been provided as has a new control system for air traffic. Further parallel runways could be constructed at Towra Point and flight operations could be directed by the existing control system. In this way the problem would be solved. 
Some people will be inconvenienced no matter where the airport is located but fewer people will be inconvenienced if parallel runways are provided across the Bay at Towra Point. Aircraft could take off and land over Botany Bay or over the sea. This is the sort of thinking that must be examined. I hope that the committee which investigates the proposal will examine conditions at a place like Hong Kong where the problem of annoyance to people has been overcome. No-one wants to annoy people. If the New South Wales members - those members from Grayndler, Kingsford-Smith and St George - are dissatisfied, let Australia's No. I international airport be Tullamarine. I would be quite happy if that were the position.  Sir Henry  Bolte is quite happy to ensure that there will be no building development around Tullamarine where there is ample space. Qantas Airways Limited has located its headquarters in Melbourne and I hope it has sufficient sense to use Tullamarine as the appropriate place for bringing people to Australia by international flights. 
As usual, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  has not said very much about the Treasury estimates. One little bit of his speech I did not understand, doubtless because of the words used; but no doubt he thought he was giving us an empirical improvisation to fill in the 10 minutes he devoted to the subject. To come to my own part, I was rather surprised that this year's Budget did not have anything in it in connection with sales tax. Sales tax is always a bit of a problem. There are always people who are trying to get changes in rates. There is always some talk that an increase in this area or in that area will take place. But in his Budget Speech this year the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said that rather than increase sales tax he proposed to increase the existing 2± per cent levy on income tax to 5 per cent. The Treasury still has the idea that to allow people to have money in hand is to encourage them to spend it. The reverse argument that Treasury uses is that to curb spending - what it calls damping down demand - taxpayers must be required to contribute an extra 2J per cent in income tax. 
These tax deductions from lower incomes do not really amount to very much. The increased tax reduces the take home pay by whatever extra amount is taken out of the pay packet. But the impact on the individual spending of people in this category cannot be regarded very highly. Such an increase makes no real difference to the purchasing ability of people in higher income groups. If they wish to buy they have the assets and they are able to obtain whatever they want. So, I do not really follow the idea that the level of spending is damped down by these methods. Salary earners in the top group these days get so much money that a few dollars here or there does not amount to very much. 
I bring to the attention of the House a little fact in regard to something that happened this week. The associations representing officers in the second division of the Commonwealth Public Service rejected an offer of a 15 per cent increase in salaries which would have brought the minimum salary level to $14,300 a year. That is a pretty reasonable sort of salary. The offer was rejected because the second division officers want an increase of 19 per cent which would bring their minimum salary to $14,875. 
In these days, by the method of increasing salaries by flat percentages, the whole range of salaries has been distorted. Wage earners at the lower level of the earning scale - those who receive $4,000 or $5,000 a year - naturally have a need for additional money if they are to have more of the things that they would like to buy. Not all of the people in this category give sufficient returns to justify a payment which would enable them to buy these items. Salaries at the higher levels are distorted by the fact that the same percentage increase is adopted with respect to them. A realistic assessment is not achieved when the same percentage increase granted to lower income earners is passed on to those in higher income groups. 
Returning to the subject of sales tax, I point out to the Treasurer that while sales tax does provide a lot of money to the revenue - it is anticipated that $695m, which is a substantial contribution to the revenue, will be collected this financial year - it is spread over an amazing and crazy list of items. I do not intend to go into all the anomalies because I am aware that the officials responsible for administering sales tax know them much better than I do. Sales tax is imposed on toilet soap but not on dog soap, to give an example. 
Why cannot the field of sales tax be tidied up? I can remember, many years ago, sitting up until 3 o'clock or 4 o'clock in the morning making out a sales tax return. The same work is required to process tiddly invoices as is needed for large invoices. It costs as much to process an invoice for 50c or $5 as it does to process an invoice for $500. Let sales tax be collected on motor cars and other items that cost similar amounts where a reasonable amount of money is obtained in one decent whack. The need to process sales tax returns in respect of goods with a unit value of anything less than $5, involving the making out of those returns in triplicate, submitting them within a certain number of days and paying the taxation before any return from the sale of the goods involved is received, is annoying and costs money. I do not believe the Treasury would lose very much revenue if sales tax was not imposed on lower units of sale. Obviously the Government finds that sales tax is a very convenient method of collecting money. Sales tax which is collected from the sale of motor cars is a simple example which comes to mind. The Government can obtain a decent sum of money by levying sales fax on large items such as. this. An amount could be budgeted for and in this way the procedures would be simplified. 
I would like to refer to the example of a piece of hose purchased for use in a cowshed. This hose has been specially prepared for the purpose. However, of course, the same piece of hose can be used for other purposes such as watering a lawn. Nevertheless a primary producer has to apply for sales tax exemption if the hose is to be used for primary industry purposes. I believe that the classifications are wrong. In the limited time available to me I would like to point out that someone in the Department has to go to a lot of trouble and sometimes honourable members have to make representations to the Department when sales lax is not allowed. They have to ask why so and so has not been allowed his particular items without sales tax. I have quoted the case of a piece of hose that has been specially prepared for use in a cowshed because it has to stand up to a certain amount of work and to alkalis. An ordinary garden hose is not subjected to this sort of treatment. Because of the work to which the hose is put it should be free of sales tax, although it could be used for ordinary watering purposes. 
Another matter which 1 wish to bring to the attention of the Committee concerns sales tax on oral contraceptives. I cannot imagine what happened to the thinking of the Treasury official who, when this drug first came up as a new product, because it was called an oral contraceptive at the time decided that it did have to carry the sales tax imposed on the other known contraceptives of the day. 
-It was put under the amusement tax. I have representations in my hand from a very important family planning association. The oral contraceptive, along with other luxury items, is taxed under the amusement tax scales. But that is not the point. This item was put in with rubber goods which were carrying that rate of tax. In the whole range of pharmaceutical preparations this is the only ethical item obtained by prescription from a doctor which carries sales tax. I submit that whoever made the mistake at that time should be reprimanded. Indeed, instead of just reprimanding him it would be much better if the Government said that from now on it will remove the sales tax on oral contraceptives in the interest of the people of Australia. 
Progress reported. 
The first thing I want to say is something that I have said on the occasion of the consideration of these estimates for several years now. We are debating the estimates for the Departments of Customs and Excise, Primary Industry and Trade and Industry. Each honourable member is given 10 minutes to debate this group of departments and it is impossible to devote sufficient time to a thorough consideration of all of the items that one would want to discuss under any one of these heading. One has to skip from one department to the other and in doing so one cannot do justice to any of them. This reflects the absurdity of the way in which we examine the Estimates. Honourable members, including myself, have to spend the time available in developing some of our ideas rather than engaging in an examination of the Estimates themselves. I do not propose to ask for any explanations of any of the items. However, I want to comment on one or two of them. 
Firstly, I wish to refer to the Department of Customs and Excise. One of the problems that we find in our daily discussions with people who have difficulties in regard to by-law entries is the time that is taken to get a decision and the nature of the decision when it is made. We are very grateful for the fact that another Tariff Board member is to be appointed to enable decisions to be made more quickly. This is very good. But it is said that even when this member is appointed decisions will probably take 2 months to make. This seems to be quite wrong. We could have a situation in which a manufacturer who was trying to establish a certain process could be held up because a decision on some type of material that he wants is deferred until after some very exhaustive inquiries have been made. I cannot understand the attitude of some people who want to import a certain article which they could very well buy here. In that type of case they ought to be required to buy their article from the Australian manufacturer. However, we could have the situation in which, although the Australian manufacturer of a carburettor said that he was capable of making that article for a certain type of engine, we knew perfectly well that the carburettor which he made would not fit on a specified engine, was not a suitable equivalent or would not be efficient or effective. 
I recall one case in which wire rope was required for the reinforcement of a concrete bridge. Magnificent wire ropes are made in Australia and I believe emphatically in giving all the protection, comfort and benefits to Australian manufacturers in order to promote industry ' and to create employment. However, in this case the Australian machinery was not capable of making wire rope one-sixth of an inch bigger as required in the architect's specifications. It seems ridiculous to knock something back like that. In this case inquiries were made to ascertain whether the wire rope could be made in Australia and it was found that Australian manufacturers could not supply the product. Of course, the manufacturer could supply the product if he had the right type of machine.. But he would not acquire such a machine' to produce wire for one bridge. I do not see why we should reduce the effectiveness of our bridges because we do not produce 'wire rope of the size required in Australia: 
I go from that subject to the , Tariff Board itself. I want to register my amaze ment that the Tariff Board keeps coming out with an effective rate of protection. For some years now we have had lectures in the annual reports of the Board on Australian manufacturing industry. The Board seems to be developing a theme of trying to take the actual development of Australian manufacturing industry from the place where it belongs - in the Department of Trade and Industry at present. I will come to that point again in a minute. 
The adoption of an effective rate of duty is understandable if we take this rate in its simple form. But anyone who tries to follow through the absurd formulae which the Board has asked us to apply must get himself into trouble. Officers - of the Department of Trade and Industry have gone to great trouble to try to convince me that their calculations on the effective rate in the cherries case was accurate. The calculation may have been accurate according to the formula which they used, but I believe that it is nonsense to try to equate such a formula in a commonsense way to a tariff on a particular item. 
In passing I would like to comment that it is even more unfortunate that some members of Parliament seem to be maintaining the idea - and this is supported by a lot of people outside - that tariffs are necessarily against the interests of primary industry. The persistence of this view is not in accordance with the facts. Many primary industries have very large and severe tariff protection. Although it is argued these days that many tariff rates apply in industries which do not need them, those levels were set for particular reasons. Before we dismantle any of these old tariff items which are not being used by certain industries at present, we should have a close look at the position. It is argued that the tariff rate is there so consequently industry should charge as much as it possibly can to keep within that rate. It is said that industries are taking full advantage of the tariff in the price they are charging. Several reports have stated that this is not so. In actual fact there are higher profit rates . on the imported products than there are on the locally manufactured article. The local manufacturer remains in business because the high tariff rates deter people from competing. If the rates were to be taken away all of a  sudden,  massive unemployment would result. i notice that in the estimates of the Department of Trade and Industry there is provision for an increase in the number of officers particularly in the Third Division, from 112 to 138. Also, there is a 40 per cent increase in the amount of money allotted to the Department for this purpose. We know that the Department has been building up a section which will make economic assessments. This section will examine industries, produce reports and so reputedly help the Tariff Board to make its decisions. I want to say once again - I have said so several times in this place - that it is quite wrong to build up the Tariff Board into a great empire as far as manufacturers are concerned. What is really needed is that control of the secondary industry section of the Department of Trade and Industry, which is taking over all those officers who are being recruited by the Tariff section, should be transferred to a separate department. The real purpose of this section should be to examine the fundamental economics of manufacturing industries, as they are to assist those industries, and not to bring up information to the Tariff Board which would pull those industries down. At present the section is advertising for econometricians which is a new term brought in by the people who developed the type of formula to which I have referred. Simple people like us in this House are not able to understand this jargon. They are developing a tariff policy based on mathematics and not on common sense. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Yes, again. The only reason I rise again is because I heard the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  make a plea to you people on the other side of the House to disregard some of the facts of life. I do not question the honourable member's sincerity. I have had to put up with his arguments for a very long time, but one of the things that I cannot stand is someone who makes a plea on the grounds that he is the only man in Australia who can be right. He is backed by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  but only because he gets his information from the honourable member from Wakefield. I want to take the House back quite a long way. In 1929 I happened to be in an industry which was concerned with the importation of goods from England, Europe and America. We were a very large firm of indent agents. A lot of the boys here would not remember but at that time a depression was coming to Australia and the world. The Scullin Government saw what was happening to Australia. There were manufacturers who, after the First World War- which had brought them into existence so we would be able to do our best to protect this country - were suffering because people like me were importing goods. 
I can quote hundreds of cases where ( have sent the article of an Australian manufacturer to Germany and said: 'Look, how much can you do this for? They are selling at 9d in Australia. You give me a price so that I can beat 9d'. They would immediately offer me a price of 8*d. Tariffs are a farce the way they operate in Australia. Through its actions the Scullin Government put the firm by whom I was employed out of business. However, it put me on my feet, but that is another matter. 
Yes. I have not had to work for an employer since. I have been working extremely hard for the people of McMillan for the last 16 years and most of them know it and appreciate it, but that, too, is another story. I have referred the Committee to those early days when, through the imposition of extremely stiff tariffs, thousands of firms and manufacturers in all States were assisted. Today they are flourishing manufacturing concerns making a magnificent contribution to the Australian economy. Australia would not be half as well off as it is now if such provisions had not been made then. Those industries would be nothing now had it not been for the tariffs which kept them in business. 
I know you do, but the honourable member for Wakefield does not. 
This is a very serious matter and I would not have risen to speak had I not been stirred by the views he expressed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! I would ask the honourable member for McMillan to address the Chair. 
I happen to have had considerable business experience. One of the great troubles with members on this side is that very few of them have had such experience. They have not had the practical experience of having to go out and sell to the public. It is all very well for the honourable member for Wakefield to express his theories. He is a farmer. He claims that because duties are applied to imported weedicides it is expensive to produce crops. That is complete and utter nonsense. Not everybody in Australia is so naive as to believe that without tariff protection for our chemical industries we would be able to secure weedicides cheaper on the world market. Tariffs are imposed after the Tariff Board holds an inquiry and examines information it secures from all over the world and after it makes its recommendations. What I said earlier concerning the 9d and 8d is equally true of chemicals costing hundreds of dollars per ton. If a price of $298 a ton is put on an Australian chemical, it can be purchased elsewhere for $297. This is the way international business works, but some members on my side cannot see it. However, if we did not have a chemical industry our farmers would not be paying the present price for their weedicides; they would be paying at least 50 per cent more overseas. 
If a person examines the reports of the Tariff Board he will find that the protection afforded to Australian industry is not real protection. Many years ago Australia made an agreement with the British - hopefully it will conclude now that the British have deserted us - that we would impose tariffs which would enable the British to compete on the Australian market. Australian industry has never been effectively protected. One needs only study American tariff policy to understand what form of protection is provided there. Consider the position of wool. America does not really need a tariff on wool, but she claims that she wants to preserve her industry. 
Can Australia export motor cars to Japan? Australia permits the entry of Japanese cars here and they compete with our manufacturers. The people who are buying Japanese motor cars are paying for the wages of Japanese workers instead of the wages of Australian workers. Yet it is claimed that this is not a question of employment. How would Australia have provided employment for all the immigrants who have come here in the last 15 years if we had not built the factories which employ them? Some honourable members have referred to 28 per cent only of the Australian work force being engaged in secondary industry. About 7 per cent is employed in primary industry. But we have our tertiary industries. Where do our tertiary industries get their customers, except from manufacturing industry? Manufacturing industry is responsible for at least 50 per cent of Australian employment. Anybody who tries to delude the Australian people on this matter is doing Australia a great disservice. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the statement issued by the Leader of the Opposition yesterday declaring the industrial policy of his Party? Is it a fact that his policy does not offer any alternative to the conciliation and arbitration system and in fact would effectively destroy the functioning of that system? Does the policy announced by the Leader of the Opposition represent a confused picture of industrial relations in this country? 
in this paragraph we have the definition of a dependant in relation to a subsidised beneficiary. This clause allows for the dependant to be a spouse or a child over 16 and under 21 who is receiving full time education and is substantially dependent. All I want to say on this paragraph is that if it is all right for this subsidised health plan to have that definition of a dependant that definition should also apply to the contributors to friendly societies. Section 91 refers to 'Spouses and children under the age of 16'. I suggest it should be the same as for the subsidised beneficiaries. 
Paragraph (a) agreed to. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to. 
That paragraph - (b) be postponed. 
Paragraph (c). 
I am sorry to do this - I realise 'that the programme has been worked out - but there are a couple of ideas that I did not have time to put forward in my contribution this afternoon. I draw to the attention of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  the great difficulty that chemists will have in complying with the provisions of paragraph (c) of clause 4. A beneficiary is required to register with the Department of Social Services which issues to him a certificate. The beneficiary must present the certificate to the doctor. Presumably the doctor will be making some inquiries about this certificate because he will want to protect himself with respect to his own fee which he is likely to get only if the person consulting him does come within the scheme. 
The doctor will be required to put the allotted number on the prescription form just as he is supposed to do now with respect to a pensioner medical service card. Unfortunately, thousands of prescriptions are presented now without the PMS number in the doctors' writing. What I cannot understand is why the Department will not allow the chemist dispensing the prescription to write the number on the form. As far as I can see there is no possibility of fraud. A great deal of time and temper would be saved if the chemist did not have to return the script in many cases to the doctor concerned. They must even send a stamped and addressed envelope to the doctor to have any hope of getting a reply. This should not happen. The indecipherable writing of doctors also is a bad problem. 
Under the regulations, a doctor is not supposed to use the national health scheme form for anything but an NHS prescription. But most of them are too lazy to help the chemist by using a separate form for non-national health scheme prescriptions. I suggest that the next batch of forms, which are provided free for the convenience of doctors, should contain a series of squares with the designations NHS, PMS and SHP - the latter meaning subsidised health plan - and that the doctor be required to mark the box to indicate under which heading the prescription is to be dispensed. If the doctor does not indicate this, the chemist should be allowed to guess what was in the doctor's mind, send in the form for payment and, if the Department wishes to query the designation, it should charge the doctor for the mistake and not. the unfortunate dispenser. 
Paragraph (c) agreed to. 
Clause 4, paragraph (b), and clauses 5 and 6- by leave - taken together. 
Under these clauses the. intention is to increase the charge of 50c to what is said to be the appropriate maximum amount. This afternoon I pointed out that the fee in respect of the general public is to be doubled; there is to be an increase of 100 per cent. The patient's contribution has not been increased since 1960, and the inference is that now the Government thinks that the general public can afford to pay more because of the change in the relative value of the cost of the service and in the average earning rate of the community. I suggest that it is sometwhat inconsistent not to be applying the same reasoning to an increase in the chemist dispensing fee which, strangely enough, has not been increased since about the same time - 1960 - when it was fixed at 30c. This year a grudging increase of 2c was granted, although the demonstrable costs involved in providing the service of dispensing had risen considerably, as the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  has pointed out. In that same period the remuneration paid by the Commonwealth to doctors for pensioner services rendered - and this is a service fee, just the same as the dispensing fee ishas increased from $1.20 to its present level of $2.50, which is an increase of well over 100 per cent. 
However, for the chemist the main problem with the charge of the $1 patient contribution is the difficulty of collecting it. I have already suggested the need for an insurance scheme to . cover this cost. But I want to add that chemists in country districts already lose quite an appreciable amount in uncollected charges of SOc. Often a country chemist does not see the actual customer. A messenger brings a prescription in and collects the medicine, or it may even be sent out to the customer by mail delivery or with the baker. Although the average number of prescriptions per person per year is given as 4.26 for last year - and it sounds as if everyone should be able to afford $4.26 a year - what I am concerned about is the position of the chronically ill. I refer to the asthmatics, the diabetics and people with heart conditions who need regular medication and who usually find that there are 2 or 3 items on each prescription form. I think that $1 is far too much. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition is couched in the sort of language to which we have grown accustomed. While not opposing the Bill the Opposition is making some sort of criticism of it. This approach is quite unacceptable for a lot of reasons, but mostly because it is obscured. The amendment claims that the Commonwealth nursing home policy is unsatisfactory because of its cost to the patients. I presume the Opposition would like this to be something that is free. The amendment refers also to the inadequate provision of alternative forms of accommodation. The Opposition does not give any explanation of what that means. Then to say that the system of voluntary insurance for medical services is on the point of collapse is just plain ridiculous. So we reject the amendment. But let us not go into that. 
I would like to say a few words about the Bill itself. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  did not say very much about it and T hope that other speakers will talk about the Bill and not about health services in general, which could cover a very wide field because to do so would waste a lot of everybody's time. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has introduced a proposal that we should increase to $1 the 50c patient contribution for prescriptions. I find that this is a rather large increase to be made in one shot. When I come to examine the position, having had the benefit of making a fair study of this whole subject through the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits, I can only come to the conculsion that the Treasury has asked (hat the amount of $160m which the Commonwealth is contributing to pharmaceutical benefits should be reduced. It has picked out an easy figure and just doubled the patient contribution. The saving works out at between $24m and $25m over a whole year. It will save perhaps $16m for the remainder of this year. 
What basis is there for increasing the patient contribution from 50c to $1? I know that some doctors have been recommending that this should be done but I have not been able to find out why they have done so. Originally when this 50c contribution was introduced the Minister spoke about it being a deterrent. The word deterrent' is not used in the second reading speech relating to this Bill. I presume from this that there has been a change in attitude. Anyhow, it is ridiculous to talk about a deterrent to the patient. The patient does not know what the doctor will prescribe. The deterrent should be applied to the doctor. As I have said several times over the years this national health scheme, which was introduced by  Sir Earle  Page a long time ago, was introduced purely and simply for the benefit of the doctors so that the doctor's bill would be paid and he would be protected all along the line. 
When we come to examine what has actually happened in the pharmaceutical area we find that this is what has happened. The doctor can prescribe as much as he likes. Very often a mother will bring along to the doctor a child with a bit of a cold, sore throat and bad chest, and the doctor will say: 'We will have an antibiotic'. He knows it will not do any good. There is no bacteriological testing to see whether an antibiotic is required but on spec, because it does not cost the doctor anything, he orders an antibiotic. He then prescribes a linctus because the mother will expect little Willie to be given some sort of medicine. This will not do him any good either. It may soothe the throat a little, but no linctus has been invented yet which will cure a cough. Because there has been a growing use of anti-depressants and a tendency to give everybody tranquillisers or pep pills the doctor may say: 'Let him have a little bit of some anti-depressant'. So the mother goes along to the chemist with  3  items on the script, and these will now cost her  $3.  1 cannot for the life of me see how we can justify this unless we go back in our thinking to 1964 when the 50c patient contribution was proposed. 
I only want to go back to that time at this moment. I do not need any comment. I have been associated with the subject for a very long time. At the moment I only want to go back to 1964 when we introduced this 50c. At that time the friendly societies, as friendly societies had done for generations, made medicines available at very low cost. There was a great argument then, and I freely admit that at that time I was against the friendly societies being allowed to benefit from the scheme because it was obvious that, compared with the chemists, they were to be given a greater advantage for their members. I still think that they have an unfair advantage in a lot of ways. But now we have reached the stage where the friendly societies are to be allowed to refund to their members anything up to $1 on the cost of a prescription. At the present time members are making a contribution of 5c a week for a family and this enables them to get their prescriptions at a saving of 40c. I daresay there will have to be an alteration in rates, but that is unimportant. If they want to, they will be able to recoup the whole Si. 
My thinking moves from 1964 to the present, and I find that the only way out of the impasse that has arisen would be if we allowed the friendly societies and anyone else who wants to - the pharmacy guilds or the medical benefits funds - to provide pharmaceutical rebates. I remind the House that the La Trobe Valley Health Services provide limited pharmaceutical benefits as do the friendly societies, and there is no reason why this practice cannot be extended so that the rest of the community can take advantage of it. The patient now has to find 40 per cent of the average cost of pharmaceutical prescriptions. In other words, it is becoming a little bit unbearable, and mothers who have to put down $3 on the counter for medicines should be allowed to take out some insurance against the cost as should the whole of the community. No mention of this idea appears in the Bill. If this is no longer a deterrent - and no mention is made in the second reading speech of a deterrent - I submit that we ought to take this action. Actually, it will not cost the Commonwealth Government anything. The insurance funds, presumably on an actuarial basis, will enable people to protect themselves against the cost, as they should be able to do. If people wish to be able to insure against these things, they should be allowed to do so. 
I take one little exception to the description of this facet as the most expensive component of the Government's overall health benefits plan. The honourable member for Oxley pointed this out. lt may be the most expensive of the Commonwealth's contributions, but the Commonwealth has chosen to bear the burden of the cost of medicines over the years and, consequently, it is paying out too much. One of the reasons why it is paying out too much is that over-prescribing is taking place. To penalise patients for what is mostly the fault of doctors is not fair. 
Another aspect of the Bill is the new prescription fee of $1 per item. I would have thought that a number of items in the list of pharmaceutical benefits would be eliminated because I note that certain items cost 80c or 90c each in respect of which the patient contributes 50c at the moment and the Commonwealth reimburses the chemist by 30c or 40c as the case may be. The cost of these items if removed from the benefits list will be approximately SI. 20 each. They will come under a different formula. Once they are taken out of the pharmaceutical benefits area they will go on to a higher scale of prescribing and will cost the patient more. 
I wonder whether the Minister can explain to me what will be done, for example, about digoxin? This is one of the most popular lines. At the moment it is available as a pharmaceutical benefit. If someone orders digoxin that person will have to pay a higher price for it because, under the rules in relation to this scheme, any item costing under $1 will not be included. I am told on excellent authority - I have no confirmation of this - that the prices of various items are being raised to take the cost of them just over SI each so that those items will come within the scheme. The Government, instead of paying out 30c or 40c on each item, will have to pay out lc to 2c only. The contribution by the patient will be $1. If this is so, I regard it as completely unfair. The only extenuating circumstance could be that we would be allowed to have some method of insurance to cover those items. 
I turn now to the other part of the Bill that is of importance. After all, the part of the Bill that deals with the medical side is only tidying up some of the things that we all know have been done. I refer now to nursing homes. I would like to have quite a long time in which to talk on this matter. The subject of nursing homes is one of the really bad spots in our whole health scheme. Everyone of us has examples of constituents who are in grave difficulty because they have a relative in a nursing home. These people must meet the gap that exists between the cost of staying at that nursing home and the benefits payable with respect to the patient. That money must be paid by that person before he or she can spend any money on his or her immediate family. 
I take Victoria as an example. In that State 83 per cent of the patients in nursing homes run by charitable institutions are base rate pensioners. A further 10 per cent are part pensioners. The cost of operating each bed in a nursing home in that State is said to be $63 per week. A single pensioner in such a nursing home is supported by the Commonwealth to the extent of $17.25 per week and almost certainly a supplementary pensioner allowance of $2 per week is paid. The nursing home subsidy is currently $14 per week. It will now be increased to $24.50 per week. That still leaves approximately $20 per week that somebody has to find. I have a great many figures here but the example that I have given is a fair example of them. With respect to ambulatory patients - here we note the difference between this class and the intensive care class with respect to benefit - between $25 and $30 is the gap which must be made up each week by somebody. 
In this Bill the Government has made some sort of move towards alleviating the present situation. An increase of $1.50 a day is provided in respect of each patient in a nursing home. This increase covers a wide area and will cost quite a lot of money. But it will not settle the problem. In any community the position of the frail aged or just the aged, if honourable members like, must be considered in relation to the excellent homes for the aged system which the Commonwealth has subsidised very heavily. This scheme works admirably. Some marvellous homes for the aged where people live in nice surroundings and can spend their latter years looking after themselves are available. But these people reach the stage where they need a little supervision. Hostel accommodation with meals may be available for them or they may need to go into an ambulatory nursing home or to an institution where a little more than supervision - that is, nursing care - is provided. At the end of this scale are the people who have reached the stage where they need intensive care. This is not intensive care in the sense that the term is used with respect to hospitals. These are people who really need nursing care every day of their lives. They may require injections. They may need to be fed or to be dressed. They may not be able to walk around. 
One of the answers to this problem must be separate units provided at the government level in association with hospitals. Nursing care should be provided from the hospitals at the required level if necessary. I find that one of the big troubles in nursing homes where intensive care services are required is the very high cost of nursing. One matron, who is facing the prospect of going bankrupt because people cannot afford to pay the fees, is herself paying out at this time in excess of $5,000 a year to a nurse for night duty on 4 nights a week. This is the sort of expense which cannot be carried by an ordinary nursing home. I ask whether the Government could make available units attached to hospitals for the care of these people so that nursing aides would be available in the home and the home would be able to call for nurses if actual nursing care was required. 
I know that the Commonwealth Government has made $5m available over 5 years to the States for this purpose. But this sum of money has not been taken up. Victoria has accepted it only quite recently. It will be some time before Victoria achieves anything with that money. The other solution to the problem is to bring the cost of this accommodation within the scope of health insurance in the same way as I have suggested pharmaceutical benefits should come within the scope of health insurance. At the present time, hospital benefit contributions have been streamlined quite rightly on the basis of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, commonly known as the Nimmo Committee. One of the very good things that that committee did was to propose the categories of standard, intermediate and private wards. There is an anomaly in the whole costing of hospitals in that the cost per bed is obtained by taking the total expenses of the hospital - the cost of stamps and everything else that is bought during the year - and dividing it by the number of beds. That is called the cost per bed. 
The cost of a bed in city hospitals is about $28 to $30 a day. The patients contribute only $15 towards the cost of a bed in a public ward. Funnily enough, at the West Gippsland Hospital the cost is only $22 a day. One could rationalise this out and introduce another table, besides the standard, intermediate and private ward tables, for those people who require nursing home care. From the figures that I have been able to obtain - and they would require a lot of checking, but I put them forward for consideration by honourable members - the injection of an extra 10c a week per contributor into hospital contribution funds would provide $5 a day in health insurance benefits for nursing homes, and that would cover the present gap which exists between charges and the combined benefit. Unfortunately, we cannot do any of these things without getting money from somewhere. The people who run these nursing homes must make a profit, but they are not making any fortunes. I do not have time to go into all the details of my proposal, but its adoption would go a long way towards overcoming the present problem. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Have nuclear submarines been seen recently among Russian naval vessels in Australian waters? What is the purpose of the presence of this fleet? If we cannot afford to equip our navy with nuclear propelled vessels, what steps can we take against this thinly veiled threat to our interests? 
The purpose of this Bill is to give assistance to wool growers to bolster the poor returns that are being earned at present. Without the export earnings of this great industry it would have been impossible to achieve the high standard of living which we take for granted today. It is up to us to get the industry back to the state of its former glory. Anyone who begrudges assistance to it in its great need now does Australia a disservice. There are about 100,000 wool growers. Also, there are 300,000 employees and their dependants and probably something like the same number of people in Australia who are partly dependent on it in other activities. So this Bill provides some encouragement and assistance for quite a large proportion of the Australian population. 
Many of us have seen the present situation coming for some years. The failure of the industry organisation leaders to come to grips with the problem has been of great concern to those of us who have been looking on and seeing Australia's most important industry slowly degenerate into one which, if the drift is not stemmed, will become a dead loss. I am not going to delve into the whys and wherefors of the types of wool that are being- grown. Suffice to say that there is far too much that should not be marketed at all. But the answer to that can only be the economic one of diminishing returns which will force these growers of unwanted types to grow something else - preferably, of course, to grow saleable wool. What I want to put forward into this very interesting debate is that wool is a fibre that has established an enormous industry on a world basis. Australian wool growers have built up a great trade for Australia by supplying the raw materials that have been going to mills on the other side of the world, and Japan, where it is turned into products 10, SO or even 100 times the value of the raw material which other countries buy from us. 
For generations Australian wool growers have been able to earn above average and really quite generous incomes because the mills in other countries set up processes for scouring, carbonising, spinning and weaving and the world population provided  a  growing demand for apparel, carpets and all the wonderful fabrics that make life pleasant today. The trouble with wool today is that the growers have sat back and said: Well, wool is better'. They said: 'Buyers will have to come to us for it'. Before the invention of synthetics there was a lively demand for wool in the auction rooms, but since the development of synthetics mill owners can be selective and do not need to compete with each other, and the auction system is shown to be the disaster it always must be when demand is slack. But I remind the House that the 'living fibre' market in the world has been so great that if it had not been for the advent of synthetics we would not have been able to grow enough wool to supply the world's demand. There is a growing demand for, and a growing use of, wool in quantity. Although it may not be quite so much in percentage, the market is there. Although there is talk of competition with synthetics, this does not mean that wool cannot be sold to the same mill owners who will use synthetics if they are sold to them for the qualities that wool possesses and at a price which will make it worth growing. 
Several speakers today have said that the problem of the wool grower is his costs. Others have preferred to say it is the price that he gels for the product. I want to go a long way further and say that it is the marketing. There is a complete absence of expertise in meeting the challenge of the market place. One of the problems in the past has been that wool has been used for garments for which it did not give complete satisfaction. Resistance to the use of wool as a blending material has held wool back. I do not think we can really see the degree to which this has occurred. No-one today would regard all wool socks for ordinary wear as satisfactory. The synthetics have made wool socks acceptable to women who objected to the darning and men who did not like the holes. Light weight suits need a synthetic stiffener to resist creasing yet, strangely enough, suits made wholly of synthetic material crease so badly that they must be ruled out altogether by anyone seeking a well-groomed appearance. 
I would like to suggest a few things that are not done. I read the other day that the cricket season is with us now and that cricketers want a cable stitch woollen garment but this article is not made in Australian factories. If a cricketer wants a woollen garment of this type he has to buy an imported one. However, synthetic garments of this type are made in some of our Australian mills. This is a wrong approach to the marketing of a product which is wanted for its superior qualities. People have to put up with a substitute because the mill owner in Australia might find that the synthetic article is a little easier to handle or sometimes a little more profitable. However, I believe that with the proper marketing techniques, he can be shown that he can do just as well by selling good stuff as a shoddy copy. 
Too much time effort and money have been lavished on trying to make wool exclusive or to alter the fibre so as to achieve such things as making it machine washable. After all, wool has its own characteristics and has to be sold for the product that it is. We should leave all the gimmicks to the synthetic people. Let them have their market and we will take ours. Too much of growers' money has been spent on promoting 'wool' and not 'Australian wool'. This is holding us back more than most people realise. Wool is being sold on the simple basis that wool is good. For all that, wool today enjoys about 6 per cent of the apparel fibre market, but that is still a big and valuable market. We should put a lot more effort into providing that market with what it wants, not what we think it wants. 
Wool, as we are speaking of it today, is a raw material. We sell it in the greasy state and naturally take a very low price for ft, just as we get a very low price per ton for iron ore compared with the price that the producer receives for the steel he makes from it. In our planning for the iron ore industry we stipulate the establishment of steel mills within a certain time. If only the early wool barons had thought of this, we would today have flourishing wool scouring, wool top, wool spinning and wool weaving industries of a size to compare with the great mills of the world. As it is we have the highest quality weaving mills in the world. I say this without any fear of getting beaten in any argument on it. 
I can take honourable members to mills that are producing materials from Australian wool which they buy. Australian wool is treated wholly at those mills. It  is  woven and we are able to send the finished product to markets outside of Australia such as Hong Kong, America and the United Kingdom. These products and their quality are fully accepted for what they are. If we go to a show put on by the wool industry - not an Australian Wool Board show because it is no good going to one of them if we want to see wool in its best form - we can see the industry showing off what it can make. At these shows the industry gives its awards to the best materials. We would not get any better suitings, materials and various fabrics anywhere else in the world. 
As my allotted time has almost concluded I will now sum up my remarks. As I said earlier, the auction system has failed the wool grower. When competition left the price left with it. When prices are falling the manufacturers hold off buying; this is historically true. Under present conditions no good buyer, no sharp buyer would do more than buy minimum stocks when he knows that the Wool Commission will store the wool until he wants it and then give it to him at a price he wants to pay. On the other hand, total acquisition and marketing by sophisticated techniques, with one marketing authority instead of the conglomeration that we now have, properly equipped to present the wool in its most attractive form, properly classed, using core testing, objective measurement and all the latest techniques, offering guaranteed parcels of anything from 25 to 100 or more bales to suit the buyer's specifications, the wool industry can once again become the most important industry in Australia. 
We should go further and establish Australia as the world centre for Australian merino wool, shift the International Wool Secretariat from the other side of the world to Australia where it belongs, and establish a woollen manufacturing centre perhaps similar to Bradford - and, I would hope, better - and set ourselves up as the authority, which we are and which we should be recognised as. We could then go out to capture world markets wherever they may be. There is no need to have organisations such as the IWS located on the other side of the world. When we have modern travel facilities available, Australia is the country in which these organisations should be located. We could go out to capture world markets, but not by selling our wool as a raw material from which other nations can build up their economies. Our wool should be in the form of finished products that will capitalise on the fact that in its proper end use wool is the top quality fibre in the world. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise and is supplementary to a question asked earlier. In his report  Sir Leslie  Melville touches briefly on the fact that the independent marketers want to sell only in the easy and profitable metropolitan areas and do not intend to carry the cost burden of distributing to country areas. When considering this case will the Minister give particular attention to the point raised by the refiners that the independent marketers should, in justice, be required to accept some penalty for avoiding their responsibilities in this way? 
I ask the Acting Minister for Primary Industry whether he will give the House details of the quota system proposed by the Australian Dairy Industry Council to rationalise the production of butterfat for manufacturing purposes. Will the proposal lead to the concentration of production into the low cost areas to the benefit of the economy as a whole? 
We have become accustomed in this place to the absurd lengths to which members of the Australian Labor Party will go to try to denigrate the wonderful work that has been done by the department staffed with people who have devoted themselves sincerely to doing just what the Labor Party says is its objective. However, members opposite are completely ignorant of what goes on in the practical world. They live in a dream world after 20 years in Opposition. The Opposition speakers we have heard so far, particularly the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  seem to think that by blackguarding the Government for the job it has done for Australia they can convince the general public that the Labor Party could do better. Nothing is further from the truth. Members opposite apparently do not understand what a fuel and power policy is, nor do they understand what the Government has been doing for the last 20 years. 
The honourable member has been here only 5 minutes. Some of us have been associated with the Parliament for many years. I have been secretary of the Government Members Mining Committee for a long time and I claim to know something about the Government's fuel policy. I do not approve of it all and I should like many things improved but, by the same token, I should like things improved in other fields as well. It is not just a matter of writing down words in a book and saying: 'We have a fuel policy'. Members opposite do not say what is the fuel policy of the Australian Labor Party. They do not say whether petrol will be supplied free. Trey do not say whether it will be the same price all over Australia. They do not say what will happen when Australia runs out of oil and gas. The world is rapidly running out of these fuels. The Government knows these things and it is the Government's policy to do what is best with our resources, adjusted to day-to-day requirements, to get the best value for the best people in the world, Australians. 
The fact that a government has a policy on fuel will not attract people to Australia. They are concerned with the return they will get on their investment. They must be encouraged to come to Australia to help us dicover fuel and gas. Since the big strike in Bass Strait no more oil has been found in Australia with the exception of that which was discovered at Tirrawarra, as mentioned by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  Within 20 years we will have exhausted the oil fields of Bass Strait so more must be found. The Government's policy is designed to encourage exploration for oil. A subsidy is paid for oil exploration. The Bureau of Mineral Resources is undertaking work throughout Australia. It is helping private exploration companies with information and it is working on its own behalf in trying to find the fuels we need. But despite the present incentives I believe other things could be done. I understand that the Government is presently considering the extent to which it can financially assist exploration work. 
The Government found it expedient - I use that word deliberately - to reduce the subsidy from SO per cent to 30 per cent and to amend the basis on which the subsidy was paid so that, in the main, Aus tralian companies would be assisted. These actions were taken for good reasons, but oil is not being found so the time has come to encourage increased exploration again. There are 2 ways by which this can be done: firstly, to revert to the SO per cent subsidy and, secondly, to enable the payment of a subsidy within those magic circles that are drawn within a certain radius of notable discoveries of either gas or oil. It is obvious that these areas are the most promising. The subsidy originally was designed to encourage the discovery of new areas but I believe that if we are to achieve results the most encouraging areas must be investigated. As I said, these are within the magic circles which have been drawn and within which subsidies are not paid for any drilling. Because of the lack of a subsidy, people are discouraged from exploring those areas. 
Australia has provided many incentives and over the years I have undertaken a deal of work in trying to make comparisons with what has been done in other countries. At times we are told that the Government should do this because Canada does it or it should do that because the United Kingdom does it, and so on. When Australia's incentives are compared with the incentives in those countries it is found that, on balance, Australia offers a better deal overall. This is why so many people have been attracted to Australia. I should hope that more would be done to encourage oil exploration. One means of achieving this purpose is to extend the depletion allowance which is provided in our income tax laws. Everyone knows that once material has been removed from the ground all that remains is a hole. The material has been depleted. Section 23a of the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act provides for a deductible allowance of 25 per cent against income or profits as a recognition of the fact that in mining operations the product is depleting. I believe this provision could apply to the oil industry. I might say also that it should apply to lead and zinc. 
It does apply to copper. Lead and zinc were excluded from the provisions of section 23a because at that time it was said: 'Look at all the money we would be giving to the rich 
Broken Hill people'. That is all very well but anyone who has studied the world metal markets will realise that these 2 items are down in price along with other products. The time has come when this matter also should be given some consideration. I have slanted my remarks a little tonight towards fuel and power because of the nature of the amendment. I believe we have co-ordinated our efforts to produce for the day, for the week, for the year with which we are concerned the best possible arrangements that we can. Nothing has been said about the extension of our fuel and energy resources in the years to come or of the uranium discoveries in Australia. We may run out of gas and oil and we may run out of coal - I doubt very much whether that will happen - but there will always be new fields to discover. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is continuing his mini-policy speech by trying to confuse the people of Australia with a Jot of words. He read his speech so quickly that I could not really follow him. Whoever wrote it should be congratulated on the cleverness of the words used. I can appreciate that aspect, but there was no sense behind the speech. He referred back to the days when  Sir Robert  Menzies, then  Mr Menzies,  had some trouble with this problem of a superannuation scheme. I remember those days very well. I can sympathise in one way with the Opposition in its frustration. Members of the Opposition do not have the ability to bring out a scheme that could be said to be in any way a workable one. The whole problem is that ever since those days that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke of, 
Ministers have been trying to produce a scheme which could fit in with existing superannuation schemes and life insurance policies under which the Australian people have been able to provide for their retirement in a way that has not been possible in most other countries. 
Although we may not have a national superannuation scheme, I would not like to say that we will not have one at some time in the future. Over many years a great many people in Australia have expressed the view that we should have such a scheme. This is not the preserve of the Leader of the Opposition only, or of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  We would all like to be able to introduce such a scheme but nobody has yet found one that will work. Therefore, it is idle for the Leader of the Opposition to try to bamboozle the Australian people with a story that has no foundation. He has made no offer; he has made no plan. He has referred in his usual manner to a couple of professors - people who have no responsibility. Neither the Leader of the Opposition nor the honourable member for Oxley can show that they are capable of bringing forward a plan that will work. 
But,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  sufficient of that. One of the unfortunate aspects of this debate is that we are debating at the same time the Estimates for 2 departments, the Department of Social Services and the Repatriation Department. In such circumstances we have no continuity of debate. I want to speak about repatriation; the Leader of the Opposition wanted to speak about superannuation - and no doubt the honourable member for Oxley will want to do so later on. I would just like to use a minute or so of my very valuable time to say that the whole basis of debating these Estimates in this House is completely haywire. This debate should not be used by honourable members to put forward their ideas in the way that they have been doing. It should not be used by the Leader of the Opposition to get some cheap political gain by making an appeal to people who think they may be able to get some more money. In the debate on the previous items, we had to discuss the Estimates for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and the Department of Supply all at the one time, and for all this honourable members were given only 10 minutes each. I know that we are told we can take a second period of 10 minutes but we are not very popular if we do so. 
Let me come back now to the Estimates for the Repatriation Department. I do so for one reason. 1 have been putting forward an idea for a long time which I now wish to repeat. I shall keep on repeating it until its merit is given due weight. I refer to people who are receiving Service pensions. The report of the Repatriation Department tells us that these total 57,989. Service pensions are now costing us $42,188,000 a year. There are 103 recipients from the South African War, 28,500 from the First World War, 29,200 from the Second World War and 107 from the wars since then. There has been an increase in the last year of 4,899 in the number of recipients, so we must not think that this is a benefit which is diminishing. It will stay with us for a long time. Of course the 28,500 from the First World War are all 70 years of age or over and at present the main benefit from these Service pensions is received by that group. One can reasonably expect that the group will diminish, but on the other hand the pensioners from the Second World War will increase in number. 
My point is that it is quite unfair that when an increase is made in Repatriation compensation for war disabilities, or social service pensions rise so that the Service pension increases, many of the recipients do not get any increase. The Minister pointed out quite recently the basis on which one can compare the benefits received by totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners in this country with what is received by people in similar circumstances in other countries. A TPI pensioner now gets $42.50 a week. This for a single man, is equivalent to the residue from a taxable income of $48.30. This is greater than the minimum wage of $46.20. In these circumstances we congratulate ourselves on the fact that we are providing more for the TPI pensioner than is received by a single man on the minimum wage. The TPI pensioner who is married and has 2 children receives $49.30 in actual cash, which is approximately $6 a week more than a person, married and having 2 children, receiving the minimum wage after the deduction of tax. A civilian, or a non-Service pensioner, would be receiving $43.44 as compared with the 349.30 received by the TPI pensioner. But if the TPI pensioner had no other income and both he and his wife qualified for an age pension the means test would cut the age pension back. 
I make the point that the TPI pensioner, or any Repatriation pensioner, has been given his benefit for war-caused injuries or disabilities which put him at a disadvantage as compared to people who did not undergo the same experiences. There are civilians who become injured or handicapped but the point is that we have accepted an obligation to do something specific for the person whose injuries or handicaps are entirely due to war service. What we pay those people is wrongly called a pension, but that is just the way things have developed. If the TPI pensioner is eligible for a Service pension he would get only $6.13 a week, not the $15.25 which would be the normal pension rate. 
I could go on at great length to elaborate on this but time will not permit me to do so. All I want to do tonight is to reiterate what I have said previously, that it is time we realised that although, as the Minister has said, the pension is not taxable, as soon as a person applies for a Service pension the means test is applied and the Service pension may not be paid in full. I believe that if this were not the case the extra amount that would be paid to the TPI pensioners would not be unreasonable. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General as a result of a letter I have received, signed by the 8 doctors providing medical service at the West Gippsland Hospital in Warragul, certifying that there have been 14 deaths in that area as a result of carcinoma of the lung in the past 18 months. I ask: Have the recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council with respect to cigarette smoking being passed on to him by the Minister for Health? If so, why has the request of this  authorative  advisory  body that all advertising of cigarettes on television and radio should be banned as an act of preventive medicine been ignored? 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  can always bc relied upon to give us a very interesting and informative talk on transport, but i thought that we were discussing the question of customs and excise. The honourable member seems to have departed a long way from that subject, although 1 can ses how, in his mind, he would associate it with transport. As so often happens when the proceedings of this chamber are being broadcast honourable members opposite get up and try to persuade the people tha* the Government should be spending millions of dollars on providing better and more comfortable transport and all sorts of other things, but at the same time they run away from (he task of raising the money to do these things. Let them tell us where they will get the money to undertake all these grandiose  schemes.  I agree with the honourable member for Newcastle in this matter. 1 would love to see all these improvements made in the transport system in Australia today, but do not let us forget that we are only a young country and these things are coming. Overpasses and other things are being constructed, but we need to have the money before we can do this work. 
In one part of bis speech the honourable member for Newcastle complained about the fact that the money which was collected from the petro) lax was nol being spent on roads for which it was originally intended. This is just not true. The petrol tax is. as it has always been, a tax. ft is a revenue producing tax, and the amount of money that is allocated for roads and other transport needs is a separate item in the Budget, and 1 hope that will continue to be the case. 1 am quite sure that, if by some mischance, the Labor Party were to become the Government of this country it would do exactly the same thing. Obviously it would be in such great need of money to do all the absurdly extravagant things that it proposed in the minipolicy of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in the last few weeks that the money which was collected by way of petrol tax would go into revenue. I would like to remind those people who may be listening to this broadcast that I, too, would like to buy cheaper petrol. It would be very nice if we could get a lot of things more cheaply. This might benefit the individual's pocket, but it must be remembered that we have one of the lowest prices for petro! in the world. If people were to travel to other countries and see the price of petrol in those countries they would understand this matter of great deal better. 1 have not entered this debate to speak on the question of the petrol tax. 1 am compelled to get on my feet and say a few words because of what was said by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  and 1 think that he rather expected that I would do so. He went back and dredged up some of the old arguments that he has been advancing to us for years, and 1 propose to dredge up some of . the answers that 1 have been giving to him for years. I do not think that any of us gets anywhere in this argument. But the honourable member for Wakefield went back to the old story of the difference between the subsidy paid to manufacturing industry or the secondary industry or whatever one (ikes to call it and the subsidy paid to the primary producer. He referred to the figure, which is a pretty ancient figure, of $2,700m a year which is supposed to be the subsidy paid by the Australian people to keep manufacturing industry in business. That is a lot of nonsense because presumably whoever dreamed up the figure of $2, 700m based it on the assumption that the subsidy represented the increase in the price of local products that is made possible by the existence of the tariff. In other words, whatever the tariff, the local manufacturer pushed his price up to that level regardless. Of course. I realise that in some cases it is essential for local industries to use the whole of the tariff facilities available to them. But in fact, many of those are showing very poor returns on shareholders' funds from the effort that they put into their businesses. But these local industries provide a service to Australia and make available the goods which Australia needs. 
Let us suppose that there is a duty of 20 per cent - and 1 keep it low in deference to the Tariff Board - and that the Australian product is worth Si 20. The assumption that is made is that the duty-free landed cost of the imported product is $100. This is not necessarily so, but this is the assumption that is made by people who find it an easy argument to use. These people deduce from' this fact that the local manufacturer is subsidised by $20. One only has to turn to the Tariff Board reports to find that" it has blown out this idea. In the 1970 report of the Tariff Board reference is made to this subsidy of $2,700m a year, although the actual amount of duty collected in that year was less than $400m. This amount of $400m which has been paid by way of duty has been blown up into a subsidy of $2,700tn, which is just not possible except in dreamland. Only about one-third of the $400m duty collected is actually for the purpose of protection. I will go back another year because 1 do not happen to have up-dated figures. In 1968-69 - I will not bore the House with the detailed figures - two-thirds of imports entered without any protective rate at all. Only one-third in value of the goods that came into Australia had any protective rate. So there is a very big area where goods are allowed in free but if we go back over the history of tariffs in this country we will find there are very good reasons for that. 
I know that the argument being put up at the present time is that wc will have a review. There are these dragnet clauses which were applied to tariffs many years ago relating to manufacturers of metals, wood, glass and so on, n.c.i., and a few matters have crept in under these clauses which today may need tidying up. All that will happen is that these manufacturers will make a fatter profit because these items are being made in the main by people who have been given protection for some particular item which of its own right secured a certain rate of tariff. They have gone on to make some other item without getting any specific tariff rate to cover that item and they have been able to. manufacture it and sell it on the Australian market against, admittedly, competition from overseas that may be deterred by the fact that there is a manufacturers of metal n.e.i. rate of tariff. 
Reverting to what 1 was saying a minute ago, the Tariff Board has shown that suggestions about the inflation of S2,700m a year in subsidies has not any basis in fact. There is no guarantee whatsoever that if the tariff is removed we will be able to get goods from overseas at the price at which we get them now on the f.o.b. or a c.i.f. basis due to the fact that there is a tariff which they have to overcome. The Board's report on agricultural and horticultural machinery in June 1970 had quite a lot to say on this and I would like to quote 2 short paragraphs. It said: 
In a number of important instances where the market has been wholly or substantially supported by imports, the price competition between these imports was nol such as to prevent very large mark-ups to end-users. 
Here it is by the importers and not by the manufacturers. It continues: 
In some cases they were up  to  3 times the mark-ups applied to similar types of locally produced goods. 
So the argument on this overall subsidy is quite wrong. The report continues: 
Although tariffs are frequently, blamed for the high cost of machinery, duties in most instances represent only a small proportion of the difference between the landed duly free cost into store and the selling price of the machinery to the dealer. They are an even smaller proportion of the price of machinery to the end-user 
It is time we got away from this argument that tariffs are adding enormously to the costs of the primary producer. It just is not true. 
The honourable member for Wakefield said that we are going through a period of change and that he is looking forward with anticipation to a lot of change. 1 know we are; we always have been. Tariffs over the years since they started have been continuously going through a process of change and adaptation. This is what we are here for; this is why we have a Government. This is how we look after the interests of the people of Australia. Very quickly I would like to refer to another quotation and again I go back into the past - I have said this in the House before.  Sir John  Mc Ewen, as Minister for Trade and I ndustry, said in this House in November 1968 that as far as he could discover Australia is the only industrialised country in the world which relies on tariff almost exclusively to provide protection for its industries. Other countries may limit our imports by imposing quotas, bans and variable levies, but we continue to allow them to tailor their prices to fit in with our ad valorem rates of duty so as to undercut our selling prices. I agree with the honourable member for Wakefield thai we are going through a process of change. The Tariff Board is trying to impose on this country changes which are most undesirable if carried to the extent to which the Tariff Board wants them carried and which would have a devastating effect on employment if they were allowed to prevent, the carrying on of industries which have been long established in this country and which provide us with a market for the primary products about which we are so worried today. If we do not have a good home market we will not have any primary plo.ducing industries and if we do not have satisfactory and growing secondary industries we do not have any home market, lt is as simple as that. 
Last week 1 went to a meeting in Melbourne organised by the Committee for the Economic Development of Australia. The  speaker  was the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board,  Mr Rattigan,  and 1 did my money in cold blood because he was speaking on trends in the Australian protection system'. He started at the beginning-, gave an explanation of what has happened and finished by saying something that everyone in the room must have known. He spoke of i he developments that have happened and mentioned that we are now about to review the whole system. He proposes to try to tailor the secondary industries of Australia to suit himself by imposing mathematical limits on the protection that is available. He speaks of this as a 50 per cent or perhaps a 20 per cent tariff. An industry can be just as inefficient with a 20 per cent tariff as it can be with a 50 per cent tariff.  Mr Rattigan  speaks of building up the staff of the Tariff Board so that the Board will be better informed and able to give more meaningful reports. This is what we all want. 
But when we look at the Tariff Board we find that it now has more staff than it has ever had and that it is slower getting out reports than it has ever been. It has people doing research and is trying to get more for this task. It is using a whole lot of equations as to how we arrive at an effective rate of tariff and they confuse the issue. The Board should put it in simple language so that everybody can understand. Everyone knows that if the manufacturer of plastics has to pay a duty on the material he uses something is added to his cost. But there is a reason for it. It is no good taking it in isolation and saying: Here is an effective rate of 50 per cent or 60 per cent'. In the case of cherries the Board spoke of 300 per cent but it did not know what it was talking about. These rates have a meaning and have to be taken into consideration in the overall picture and not just considered from the point of view of how they affect one item that happens to be before the Tariff Board. After  Mr Rattigan  had given a quite innocuous speech which did not really inform anybody, except for a little history, there were questions. I will not deal with all the questions that were asked but the people assembled were a bit  worded about  the fact that we have a tariff which has a pretty tough effect on some of the things that happen in this country. 
This man, who is Chairman of the Tariff Board, was asked to give some explanation of the difference between the type of tariff that Australia has and the tariffs that are used overseas. Some of those present quoted eases, most of them on a rather humorous basis, I thought of instances in which they had tried to get goods into overseas markets and were prevented by the types of measures of which I spoke a few minutes ago, quotas, bans, variable levies and all sorts of dodges that countries around the world indulge in to try to prevent other countries getting goods into their countries. Yet, Australia is silly enough to allow these countries to bring their goods into Australia on the basis thai we impose a tariff on those goods. If we impose a tariff of 40 per cent, the selling country knows exactly how much it must charge from its end to enter the Australian market. If we increase the tariff to 50 per cent, the price on the goods is lowered so that the goods may be sold here. When it comes to selling goods on the Australian market ad volorem tariff rates have no hope of protecting anyone. Dumping is a practice which occurs only too frequently. 
What worried me was that the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board completely ducked this question asked of him. He said that he really did not know very much about what other countries did, that his job was to look after tariffs in this country. These remarks astounded me. I cannot really believe that the purpose of the Tariff Board is simply to try to get its own way for the sake of getting its own way, and to try to build up its own empire, and not to be prepared to come out and to debate in public the difference between a country that is really interested in being an industrialised country, that believes in building up ils population and that believes in having soundly based manufacturing industries, and a country that will fritter those objectives away and say. 'Let us make only those few things for which we are most suited'. This is on the proviso that the goods can be made cheaply enough. As an example I mention stoves, a very heavy product. Most of the stoves sold in Australia are made here. This type of industry is provided with a natural protection. But, comparing what we do here with what happens in other countries in the world, I say that we are just amateurs. 
Will the Minister for National Development advise the House of the conclusions that have been reached about submissions from the Austraiian Petroleum Exploration Association on oil and mineral exploration within Australia? 
1 ask the Treasurer whether, in view of the continuing indications of the failure of productivity to keep up with wages and other costs, he will consider giving industry the opportunity of improving efficiency by reintroducing the investment allowance for the purchase of new capital equipment. 
It is rather incredible that time after time when we debate tariff matters we become involved in many words such as those we have just heard from the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F, Cairns),  which mean very little. I was very interested to hear the honourable member for Lalor praising  Sir Robert  Webster. I cannot imagine for one minute that, in the event of the tragedy of there being a Labor government in Australia, it would follow the advice of somebody who has done as much as  Sir Robert  Webster has done to develop Australian industry. But, while it suits members of the Labor Party, they use these words, they appeal and they tell us what they will do. None of them has had any practical experience in running a business. None of them has had the practical experience of ' undertaking manufacturing industry. None of them has had the experience of having to make the system work. We all know that their real objective behind all these words is just to nationalise all those industries that really matter in this country. 
The Tariff Board Bill that we are debating tonight is quite a different mutter, lt is a very simple Bill. Its purpose is to increase the number of members on the Tariff Board from 8 to 9 - something which I did not hear the honourable member for Lalor say anything about at all about. Basically the idea of the Bill is that simple issues related to by-laws, dumping, classification and the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement should be handled by one member of the Tariff Board. I would have liked to have heard the Opposition give some views on this area of tariff protection. I would have liked to have heard the Opposition say something about what it thinks of the by-law provisions. We know of its old hackneyed views on the tariff itself. We have been through them so often. The idea of being able to refer to a one-member Board instead of a 2-member Board some controversial matter in relation to by-laws or other special problems is a good one. 
The questions of by-law entry are of the greatest importance to many industries either in the period of establishment or, more particularly. I think, at a time of expansion or of replacement of equipment when they are looking for greater efficiency to effect cost savings and to improve quality. If Australian plant and equipment is available Australian industries should use it. 1 do not think there is any question about that. If suitable plant is available from local manufacturers then other producers, who themselves no doubt expect Australians to buy their goods, have a responsibility to buy and use local plant. If plant is available and someone decides to use imported machinery because it may suit him to do so - he has to make a cost estimate - then he should pay the duty and not have any argument. But if the required plant and equipment are not available the firm which is going to install improved or new plant should not have to pay duty and add unnecessarily to capital costs. This could very easily run into hundreads and perhaps even millions of dollars. This is a clear and simple statement of the facts of life. 
The position is quite clear when there is just no question that a particular type of machine is not made in Australia, but it becomes contentious when machinery generally of the kind but not of the same type required is available. Worse still is the complication when an Australian manufacturer says that in his opinion he could make it although he has never actually done so. Even if he has equipment on which the machinery could be made, and perhaps also the knowhow. that does not mean necessarily that he could have the blueprints to produce the particular article. I wish I had time to expand on that because I think it is a very important part of the by-law area. The prospective user, when he comes to apply for by-law entry, can argue on all sorts of grounds and can complain about the capacity or quality of the local product while a prospective maker may claim that anyone trying to obtain by-law entry is merely trying to avoid the duty. This is not always the case. It is very important for a manufacturer to get the right type of machinery if he is to have the most efficient management of the product that he is trying to make. 
One aspect of referring anything at all to the Tariff Board is the long time that it takes the Board to arrive at a conclusion. The average time taken with normal Tariff Board inquiries is 2 years. In bis second reading speech on this Bill the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  suggested that decisions should be available within 3 months. Yet in practice the Department of Trade and Industry claims that properly documented applications are processed within J week and 4 weeks. 1 would like to expand a little bit on what is being done now because procedures have been streamlined with the result that the number of applications has been cut back from a peak of over 50,000 a year - that is. 1,000 applications a week - for by-law entry. That gives honourable members some idea of the size of this problem. But by streamlining the processes this has been cut back to just half that figure. In 1969- 70 the figure was 25,157. The first step was to increase the published list of goods for which standing by-law entry was accepted. Outside this comes an area in which ad hoc approval must be sought, each approval covering only the requirements of one particular applicant if the suitably equivalent goods are not reasonably available. By establishing lists based on experience a large number of these individual applications could be processed very quickly. 
The next step taken to facilitate the processing of applications was to set up a manufacturers index which made it less time consuming to go the round of manufacturers and ask them whether they could manufacture the product under scrutiny. Applicants are required to give firm evidence of genuine effort to find a source of supply locally. This has been a ve rj' big help, too. Instead of just ordering something and then asking for by-law entry, the importers know that they are required to go to the Department of Customs and Excise first and indicate that they will be looking for by-law entry. They have to make sure that they have had a look to see whether the product can be made in Australia. 
Raising the minimum level of duty concession from $40 to $100 has. also resulted in cutting down the unwieldy number of applications that were being received through our comprehensive tariff coverage. The Department now has a very comprehensive indication of what is not being made in Australia, as well as having a valuable guide to what is being produced and by whom. So we have a picture of the by-law section of the Department of Customs and Excise having done a great deal to bring this vexed problem of by-law entry into manageable proportions. But there are always particularly contentious problems. There are areas in which a delay sometimes as long as a year might have been necessary because of the application going backwards and forwards. It is hoped that by referring these matters to the Tariff Board with this one extra member it will be able to make decisions that will tie in with the general picture of tariffs as it should be. 
There are several other aspects of what is happening in the field of tariffs. In particular, in the last Tariff Board report reference was made to the fact that the Board is referring some of the examination which normally would be done by its own staff to outsiders. Quite a lot was said about this when it first came under notice. The Minister made a statement in the House in which he explained what was happening. Everybody accepts this, and it really served the purpose of putting the question back where it is no longer one of controversy. 
This proposal has been accepted, although 3 members of the Tariff Board dissented from the wording of the Tariff Board report. This proposal still will be carried out whether or not they dissented. One point I want to make quite emphatically is that the Minister said that he was making his statement after legal advice had been received from the Attorney-General's Department. He said: 
. it is perfectly proper that the Tariff Board should have a research staff available to it . . . 
Of course it should. We all believe in this. lt is the fact that it is a temporary staff that has been worrying people. The Minister says that this is perfectly legal. However, I emphasise that it is not a question of whether it is legal; it is a question of whether it is right and proper. It is a question of morality, credibility and acceptability. Industry does not accept the fact that confidential information which has been given in the course of a Tariff Board inquiry should be made available to people who are not part of the normal staff. Later in his statement the Minister said:  . . it is not uncommon for government departments themselves to engage outside consultants. 
There are only 2 agencies which could come in this category and they are the Taxation Office and the Commonwealth Statistician. In their cases it is definitely written into the Acts which govern them. Provision is made to ensure that no outsiders are allowed in. There is absolute secrecy. The information that is made available must be confined within their own staffs. Outsiders are not allowed to handle the information that comes to those departments. That is specifically provided in the relevant Acts but there is no provision such as that in the Tariff Board Act. 
I would like to refer now to a practice that has crept into Tariff Board procedures which suggests that the Board is giving itself powers which it does not possess. I have spoken about this before and I would just like to give another example. This is the arrangement under which industry gives to the Board written information on the case it will make and in answer to questions asked by the Board. The Board has for years been in the practice of sending out questionnaires before an inquiry is undertaken. The first point 1 want to make is that under the Tariff Board Act the Board is required to conduct a public inquiry, and anyone wanting to make a case at that inquiry is entitled to go along to it and give his evidence in public and on oath. The arrangements under which industry gives the Tariff Board written information and answers to questions in advance of a public inquiry amount purely and simply to industry trying to co-operate and help the Tariff Board in the interests of facilitating the inquiry, and this is sensible. If the Tariff Board can have all this information before it holds the inquiry, the Board and its staff can have a lot of the work done in advance. The Board will be better informed and that is what we all want. It will understand the problems much better, lt will know the aspects that need to be probed at the inquiry. 
But 1 want to make quite clear the point that industry gives all this information in writing in advance of the inquiry on a purely voluntary and co-operative basis in order to assist the Board. To be legal and technical, what it is doing is to give the Board in writing in advance of the inquiry the evidence that it later will give at the public inquiry. It is only on the evidence given at the public inquiry that the Tariff Board can reach its judgments. That is a provision of the Tariff Board Act. It has been brought to my notice that recent circulars of the Tariff Board suggest that the Board has the idea that it only has to call and industry must jump. For example, a Tariff Board circular on domestic appliances stales: lt was stated in Tariff Board Circular 115/71 that the timetable for the inquiry required intending witnesses to forward to the Board '.heir Statements of Evidence, based on the Board's Booklets, not later than 22nd October 1971. 
Intending witnesses who are unable to comply with that timetable are now informed tha the time allowed foi the completion and return of statements has been extended until 26th November 1971 
I draw the attention of the House to the words 'required' and 'time allowed'. The Tariff Board seems to be sending out a message that compliance is obligatory, and is suggesting that if you do not comply it will be to your detriment or perhaps even that you may not be allowed to take part in the inquiry. But the Board has no authority to make demands. It must ask that the people who intend to give evidence will comply. 1 raise some very grave objections to any suggestions that industry is bound in some way to comply with the dictates of the Tariff Board in this matter. I certainly hope that industry will meet the Board's timetable, when it is asked, provided that the timetable is reasonable. Naturally we want to do the best we can, but what industry does has to be on the basis of a voluntary and co-operative effort. In particular I make it perfectly clear that the authority given to the Tariff Board under the Tariff Board Act is to conduct a public inquiry at which evidence is given in public on oath. 
Merely to put straight the rights of an individual on this issue - I do not suggest that a company do this - I say that there is nothing to prevent a person turning up at an inquiry to give his evidence without having given any of it in writing in advance. The supplying of written evidence in advance is not obligatory. While I am on the subject of rights I make it clear that there is no obligation on industry to take part in what the Tariff Board calls pre-inquiry studies. These studies were condemned by Board members Dudley and Hampel in a minority opinion in the 1970- 71 report. They asked that the studies be discontinued. In my view they should be discontinued, and industry should see that they are discontinued by having no part in them. I make it clear that industry's participation in a pre-inquiry study would be a voluntary and co-operative effort on the part of industry. The Tariff Board has no legal authority to conduct such studies or to enforce industry's participation. Tn the light of the results of the pre-inquiry study into the book manufacturing industry, I do not think an industry would be wise to take part in pre-inquiry studies in future. I would very much like to have had sufficient time to talk about post-inquiries examinations because these are even worse. 
-It is ' very good indeed. We produce these excellent cheeses which people should be buying instead of imported cheeses. I have yet to' see an imported cheese which has the true flavour which is found in Australian cheeses such as edam, gouda, samsoe and so on. Unfortunately, some of the people on the Australian Dairy Produce Board have a vested interest, one of them' being the greatest marketer of blue vein cheese in Australia. Why do we import cheese when it could be made in our own factories? If we were looking at this problem from the Australian viewpoint, that is what we should be doing. 
The idea that I was trying to express about a cheese bureau, as I visualised it when it was mentioned to me, was that it would promote cheese through shops specialising in cheese and allied products, which would give the Australian people an opportunity to buy good Australian produce at reasonable prices instead of buying the higher priced, less flavoursome imported products which are being pushed by the delicatessen trade because of the higher markup and profit which they can make. Anyone who heard the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  this afternoon giving comparisons of the enormous markups on some of these imported cheeses will understand what I mean. 
Much has been done by the establishment of a cheese club in Victoria. This is now spreading to branches in some country areas and is moving interstate. But the proposal for the establishment of a cheese bureau is a more direct attack on the problem. With a levy of only one-fifth of a cent per pound on local sales of cheese, a sum of $200,000 would be available. Cheese is the main growth product for the dairy industry and it should be pushed for all it is worth through well planned, skilfully directed promotion. In this Bill we are concentrating on the very worthwhile project of enabling the Australian Dairy Produce Board to go ahead where it sees the opportunity to get into new markets. The dairy industry has a tremendous future in front of it if it can only see where it is going and can plan production on . an individual basis. But we have to know what the returns will be. If the returns from some of these overseas markets are to be as low as they were 2, 3 or 4 years ago, then the individual farmer has to be given all the facts and figures. He has to be given one set of figures for the home market and another set of figures for the overseas market, instead of combined figures which blur the picture. 
The Dairy Produce Board itself has to do a lot of rethinking. It has established some very worthwhile markets in South East Asia, and so long as this operation can be conducted on a profitable basis and so long as the people who are producing the product can make a reasonable living out of it, that is all right. But the Board has to be vitalised by appointing to it some vigorous, independent members who will liven it up and see that the opportunities in Australia are developed to the utmost. I believe that we can go a long way further in developing and selling to the Australian people the new products which the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other bodies have produced. But this can be done only by the Australian Dairy Produce Board taking up the promotion of these products as special projects and giving them as much attention as it gives to overseas markets or even more. 
A tariff debate is always an unsatisfactory debate because, regrettably, there are so few people in this House who will take the trouble really to try to examine what is the reason behind the fact that we have any tariff at all. The Bill before the House is not one that we debate in detail - there has been some talk today about shirts and a few other things - but one on which we can get down to philosophies. In philosophies unfortunately men are unpredictable. 
When the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  concluded his speech he was touching on the tertiary industries. 
Tertiary industries are admittedly the greatest employers of people in Australia but they are also the industries most responsible for putting up prices in Australia. Manufacturing industry is blamed quite unfairly for increasing prices. Manufacturing industry has to put up with a certain amount of blackmail from unions; if they are to keep on progressing in business they have to accede to demands which are quite unreasonable but which are understandable in the overall picture of the Australian economy. We all want to get as much for our labour as we possibly can. One of the human frailties is that we all like to think we are worth a lot more than we really are. 
The Minister says that it is a virtue, not a frailty. Tertiary industries do not have to worry about tariffs. Tariffs affect only half the people of Australia, but they affect these people so enormously that I am amazed that any Australian can carry the opinions that some Australians do, opposing the preservation in Australia of something that has been built up with a lot of blood, sweat and tears. 
A previous  speaker  mentioned the Brigden report Let me go back to the early history of tariffs. Australia has always been, and I am quite convinced that it will continue to be, a major primary producing country. Because of our peculiar capability of producing wheat, meat, wool and butter - perhaps I should say dairy products because there are more valuable dairy products than butter in the world today we have a responsibility to the rest of the world. There is talk about dumping a lot of eggs in the sea because we cannot sell them in Australia at a price which will show a profit for the producers. This is completely crazy. Australia basically is a primary producing nation, but any nation can develop over a period of years. We talk about underdeveloped countries, emerging countries. Australia stands in the middle of the picture. We claim, in the discussions that go on in the world, the right to be considered as a developing country and the right to be considered also as an industrial country. This creates a very difficult situation. 
While we were emerging from our purely primary industry foundation, we ran into the First World War. It was then found that it was necessary, for national defence and national preservation, to manufacture in Australia a lot of things that we had been used to importing. The nation could not have lived through that period unless there had been people willing to start backyard industries, to turn their lathes and other instruments to the benefit of the country. After the First World War industries were encouraged and there was great development. I gained my business experience in that period, in the 1920s. The Australian has always had a complex about buying cheap goods. If he could get something at a low price he did not give a damn how bad it was. If he could buy an imported screwdriver for a shilling less than it cost to buy one made in Australia, it did not matter to him if the screwdriver turned only half a dozen screws before turning over on the head or before its handle became loose. If an imported article cost a dollar less than a locally manufactured one, that was a good thing. 
In the 1930s we ran into a lot of trouble. Unfortunately there are too few people in this House who remember the 1930s and the difficulties we had. Many people, including myself, were out of work. If a person could manage to get a job he hung on to it like grim death. He did not turn round and say to the boss:'That's all right, I can get another job tomorrow. I will just walk off the job'. He could not do that. People were leaning on shovels and just taking handouts. This was typical throughout Australia. I lived through this period, but I did not take the handouts. I managed to keep alive on my own initiative, thank God. 
These conditions meant that something had to be done, and it was a Labor government which, to its credit, took some action. It was the Scullin tariffs that established the manufacturing industries of Australia. I. can remember competitors in the field of goods I was handling who were producing really very poor products compared with what was being imported. A lot of people who lived through those times still have the impression that if something is imported it must be better than the locally produced article. But the Scullin Government, by making a terrific boost in the amount of tariff protection that it gave to manufacturers, encouraged industries to get out of the backyard stage that was a feature of industrial development during the First World War. Thousands of manufacturers in business today owe their establishment to the fact that they were asked by the Government of the day, during the First World War as 'well as the Second World War, to produce for the benefit of Australia so mat we would not be dependent on the rest of the world. Now I find that some people in Australia are prepared to take away this wonderful asset that Australia has built up. 
When I commenced my speech I said that Australia in the early days depended on primary industry, but we also have a great potential as an industrial and manufacturing country. I will not go into detail, although I could spend a lot of time talking on the future of Australia as a mineral producing country. The wealth that is available in Australia from our raw materials, basic minerals, and even our oil if only the Government would give us some encouragement to find more oil, is enormous. But in this debate we are talking about the manufacturing section of industry. People have been saying nasty things about me Broken Hill .Pty Co. Ltd for putting up its prices. BHP has done a tremendous job for this country. It does not want any tariffs on its basic steel. It produces the cheapest steel in the world. It can compete in most steel products, but for some unknown reason we are completely out of court when it comes to competing with the world in certain products, such as stainless steel. 
To encourage an industry over its whole range it is often necessary to fix a rate of duty which gives encouragement to an industry to supply a wide range of products. Many people seem to be saying today that we should make only those things that we are particularly good at making. The honourable members for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  said that bricks do not need any protection. What sort of protection do you think you would get from shipping rates if you tried to import bricks from some other part of the world? You do not need tariff protection on a line like that but you do need it in industries that are dependent on a high labour content and which do not have a self-made protection because the size -or weight of the commodity makes it too clumsy to be transported around the world. Those industries have a natural protection. 
We have many industries 'that are very capable of producing satisfactory products which are essential to the health and welfare of this .country. If we neglect those industries and do as some of our people would have us do, that is, just push them to one side and say: 'No, I will have the imported article', then we will be the loser as a nation. We will not develop into a country which can encourage the 'employment opportunities that we are holding out to the migrants we are asking to come to Australia. I am sometimes amazed when I hear my colleagues speak on this subject The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  got into a little bit of discussion about the Swedish manufacturing industry. How can anyone possibly compare Australia with Sweden, an old, honourable and very efficient country, small in size which has some remarkably good industries? Sweden makes the best enamelware in the world, the best ball-bearings and the best of many other things. I know that from my own experience. Sweden has the capability because it has had years of craftsmanship and it has for years supplied a quality article. Sweden has only a very small population and it does not .have the same problem that Australia has in the distribution of products. 
As was rightly said, Sweden has on its doorstep an export market in the European countries. It is a ready made market. When we want to export our goods we have to go thousands of miles to find a market. Yet we hear speeches from people in this place who do not seem to realise that if our manufacturers wish to export they have to go to the world markets as they are doing now very successfully. It is quite notable that Australia is manufacturing so many things today. We can sell fishing rods to Japan. We supply most of Japan's golf clubs and things like that. 
You have not looked at the trade statistics. 
They will be Australian clubs that you buy in Japan. The Australian manufacturing industries are reaching out into the rest of the world at a great disadvantage. They can do this only by costing and putting their prices on a marginal basis. The local market has to absorb the fixed costs to take in all the overheads. This is exactly what has been done overseas for centuries. Australia is waking up to this but unfortunately too many critics of Australian manufacture are not aware of this. Other countries have been doing this for years with tied local markets which they marginally cost. This enables them to get through-put which gives them a unit cost of production which permits them to offer materials to the rest of the world at a very attractive price. Australian manufacturers have done this. I have not sufficient time in this debate but I could name dozens of manufacturers who have adopted this policy must successfully, and they are the boys who win the export awards. But we do not seem to realise that they can do this only if they have the protection to be able to keep their local industries going. I come back to the Volvo car. It is a wonderful and lovely car. 
Not me. 
You ought to be ashamed of yourself because anybody who prefers to pay the wages for people who work in a Swedish, Japanese or German factory or anywhere else instead of paying the wages for somebody working in an Australian factory is not a true Australian. 
This applies to suits. I have not worn an imported suit since my teenage days when I used to think I was getting better by buying English Simpson suits. I can buy dozens of makes of suits here. Australian suit manufacturers can compete on the London market. We can supply suits to America. There are people in America who want pure wool suits that they can get from Australia. One factory in my electorate produces suit material which it exports to America, Hong Kong and many other countries. Australia can do it if we in this place realise that we have to support Australian manufacturers and not send our money overseas. 
To Hong Kong and to other places. What about the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)?  He had his picture in the paper only quite recently and it was said he had his clothes made - not just his suits - in Hong Kong. He is supposed to represent the Australian worker. 
He can afford it. I have not time to develop that point any further. There are a few other things I would like to say about it but I will defer it until another opportunity arises. For goodness' sake let us, as Australians, forget all about the fight between primary industry and manufacturing industry. The farmers say that they have to pay too much for their farm machinery because somebody has tariff protection on reapers, binders and everything else. If people are going to become so isolationist that they think only about their own little problems Australia will never progress. Manufacturers have to live; primary producers have to live. One point I would like to develop is that people who are getting extremely high wages in the manufacturing industry, with average earnings of $95 a week, ought to be prepared to pay much more than they pay now for the food that the primary producers of Australia go to a lot of trouble to give them for very little return. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Having been forced by the doctors into referring to an arbitrator the questions of the fee which a doctor is entitled to receive for his work as it relates to payments by benefits funds under the national health scheme in general, will the Minister extend the same courtesy to the pharmaceutical industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry and refers to the election of members to the Australian Dairy Produce Board. Will the Minister take the opportunity to update the antiquated method of voting  -  I understand that they have not had a real vote since 1934  -  and also to increase the number of members representing the Australian dairy farmers to provide for 2 members from Victoria in keeping with Victoria's major part in producing dairy produce for export? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I cannot quite see why such a lot of heat is being generated over a pretty simple thing, but I should not like the general public reading Hansard in the future to think that the only thoughts on this matter came from the Opposition. Goodness knows, I am no expert on teaching and I have risen without having examined the whole question. But I have heard quite a bit of the debate. The State teaching services are inviting people overseas to come to Australia. Quite a few Americans down in my part of the world are doing a very valuable service. Are these people to be barred from joining the Commonwealth Teaching Service? Anybody in this chamber who is sitting and thinking about where Australia is going must realise that we are the most important country in the South East Asian area and in the southern Pacific area. Arc we going to bar Japanese from coming to Australia? We should be teaching Japanese, Malaysian and a few other languages in our schools at the present time  bo  that we can talk to these people who are our friends. How will we get Japanese to become British subjects in order to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service? Admittedly the Minister will have the right to say that they can join the Service. 
All I want to do in rising to speak - a bit unwillingly - is to point out that surely this is a sound, commonsense arrangement. It allows people to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service. If we are going to appoint a commissioner to conduct the whole affair, surely we should not be bringing the political angle into it by providing that the Commissioner has to get the permission of the Minister if he wants somebody to come to Australia to teach something which could be most valuable to the Australian public in the future. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the confusion that exists following ambiguous statements  by  3 Ministers while addressing farmer gatherings recently, will the Minister give a clear reply to each of the questions now the subject of heated controversy among dairy farmers when discussing arrangements for the next 5-year subsidy plan? Those questions are: What is the base period upon which the quota will be worked out? What formula will be used to split up the national quota among States? What will happen about quota shortfalls? Will they be carried forward? Will quotas be transferable without restriction? Will quotas "be freely negotiable? Will highly productive farmers in Victoria be forced to cut back production while high cost producers in other States are encouraged to stay in business? Or has the quota proposal now been effectively killed? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and follows immediately on the last question. Will the Treasurer give consideration to a suggestion which I have made previously, I think to him but if not certainly to his predecessors, that the 20 per cent depletion allowance, as it is called, for tax purposes on mining ventures, which is available to mining undertakings producing all other materials, be extended to cover lead and zinc so that mining operations at Broken Hill may become profitable again? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industy seen a report in Ronald Anderson's 'Primary Industry Newsletter' of 12th April that Amalgamated Cooperative Marketers Australia Ltd is prepared to spend $30,000 on a campaign to have  Mr K.  R. Kent, its General Manager, re-elected to the Australian Dairy Produce Board? If the report is true, does it indicate the significant commercial value to individual companies of a seat on the Board by which they may influence trading patterns, not always in the best long term interests of dairy farmers? Will the Minister consider revising the constitution of the Board to ensure that all members representing both co-operative and proprietary companies are as free as possible from vested interests, and specifically that suppliers whose votes determine the appointment to the Board are given an opportunity to have a say in the nominations? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to the recently released statement by the Minister for Civil Aviation on the proposed visit to Australia of a Concorde supersonic airliner in June. In his statement the Minister said: 
The Concorde could fly at supersonic speeds only over remote areas of Australia. The exact routing has yet to be determined. 
Will the Minister please note that the flight of a Concorde supersonic airliner over any part of the land mass of Australia is not acceptable to any of the people underneath the flight path. 
As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  just indicated, there is very little question of debate on the Bills we are considering. These Bills provide less room for manoeuvre than any item 1 have ever seen come before this Parliament because all that is happening is that we are converting our present imperial system to the metric system. However, the Bills do give us one or two thoughts. Apart from the convenience which will occur in world trade because of the metric system of weights and measures, we must consider what will happen with our own internal trading. I will never get used to it. I will never be able to get used to the idea that if I were still in business and dealing with spirits as I was a long time ago and I had to work out an order, instead of saying $2.69 per lb, I would have to say $5.93 per kilogramme. 
There are  2i  pages as a schedule to the Bill that indicates that people will have to learn a whole new system. The benefits in the long run must be advantageous to our whole living. It will obviously be much easier for school children to be able to handle these measures, although when I was at school we learnt the metric system. We learnt in tens, hundreds and thousands and so on and thought it was very easy. However, we had to learn the other things as well. I understand that the idea in the schools now is to take the rulers away from the children. The rulers that I have always used have had inches on one side and centimetres on the other. But the idea now is to move right away from that. The new method of teaching mathematics today is to give the children little sticks of different lengths so that they are able visually to see just what are the differences. Once everybody gets used to the metric system it will be very much more simple to be able to make calculations. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned, when he was speaking about the report of the Metric Conversion Board, that the changeover would not be completed until 1979. To me that seems a very long time. I would rather see a much more expeditious changeover. If we are to make a break, then let us make the break expeditiously. To be quite candid about this, I would have a lot of trouble in making calculations in pounds, shillings and pence now that I have become accustomed to using the decimal system in relation to money. 
When it comes to liquid measurements, which are the subject of these Bills, it must be easier to handle these calculations according to the size of containers. It seems to me to be a little ridiculous that we should change hogsheads to something else because the contents are to be so many litres converted into dollars and cents. Surely it would have been much easier for us to have started off with the smallest measure of a one-pint milk bottle and change it to a one-litre milk bottle and then go on with the other sizes so that when we came to hogsheads and the other larger sizes used in commerce it would be a lot easier. 1 presume that cost is one of the troubles. Just think of the enormous number of beer barrels throughout the whole of Australia. Most of these barrels are 9-gallon containers, with a few 18-gallon containers. But these barrels are in existence, so we have to make use of them. This is why we have adopted this most complicated system of changing over from, for example, $1.1375 per gallon to the converted figure of $0.252778 per litre, although the capacity of the container is not a definite number of litres. It is a certain number of litres plus something. Surely we should be making this changeover - if this is possible - in one step. 
One thing on which I would like to have a little more information is what will happen when eventually we reach the stage where we will be producing containers which are tailored to the metric system so that a container will be so many litres and contain so many kilograms instead of having measurements of one pint and so on. In that situation deliveries of goods will be made to people in 2 sizes. We can see this in the supermarket where 2 bottles are alongside each other but there is a slight difference between their sizes. The price is to be adjusted so that a person pays according to the number of units. But it will look as though the larger bottle is the better buy. This is the sort of confusion that must arise with this changeover. If it is humanly possible, I would like to see us get over that step as quickly as we can. 
Certain industries have been anticipating what they will be able to do with the changeover to the metric system. I refer to the engineering field. Although we are not dealing with this field tonight, I mention it in passing and only as an example. This is a field in which tooling up is now being done according to the metric system and industry has found that this system suits it. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports pointed out that this has been done in the pharmaceutical industry for a long time. We have all had to buy a new measure with which to pour our medicines. This was done in a very simple operation. Today it would probably be very difficult to go around and buy an ounce measure, but one can buy very simply the equivalent in the metric measure. 
I just drawn the attention of the House to the great difficulty that could be experienced unless we make a very clear break in this changeover. The only other comment I would like to make is that this legislation is an indication of the thoughtfulness of this Government. It is purely a machinery measure but, if anything, the Government will be the one that loses. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
May I say, first of all, that the subject raised by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  seems to be a carryover from the prevention yesterday of discussion of a matter of public importance. Normally the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  would deal with the honourable member far more effectively than I can but today is Grievance Day and 1 would have expected Grievance Day to have been used for the purpose for which it is designed. I have spoken in a Grievance Day debate on only one occasion in the 16 or 17 years I have been a member of this Parliament because I have not had a grievance in the sense in which the term is usually understood. Grievance Day gives members the right - I support that right - to raise matters that they feel affect them but the honourable member for Hughes has gone beyond that sphere and has spoken about a fuel policy. The Government has a clear and progressive national fuel policy. The Government is fully aware of the need to conserve fuel. It is fully aware too of the great asset that Australia has and the vital importance of fuel, and the energy it produces, to the national economy. Coal cannot be isolated when one talks of fuel. The honourable member for Hughes seems to have adopted a one-eyed New South Wales view. Does the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who was listening to the debate, believe that Queensland coal should be sacrified merely to benefit a few people in New South Wales? I should not think so. 
The open cut coal mines, which I have seen, are a tremendous asset and are being used to best advantage. Australia has so much coal that production will continue for a long time. When talking about a fuel policy one must consider all of the aspects associated with it. For instance, there is automotive energy which is produced without petroleum fuel. There is a general market for energy. The honourable member for Hughes touched lightly upon this subject by saying that New South Wales will be able to get cheap coal eventually to maintain its electricity supply. That is a good thing. However he has overlooked that the general market for energy subsists on a State basis. Admittedly there is an inter-connecting grid for electricity between Victoria and New South Wales, but otherwise each State looks after its own requirements. No State, not even Queensland, would use up all its good coking coal in exports if it thought that that coal could be better used for generating electricity. The honourable member for Hughes should know that coking coal is not really suitable for that purpose. Coking coal has its use in the steel industry. The unfortunate position is that there has been a down turn in Japan's requirement for coal. Problems have arisen and the Japanese have not been able to take deliveries of coal from Australia. 
The honourable member for Hughes complained about large ports being able to take unfair advantage over the small ports in New South Wales. Why does not New 
South Wales bring its ports up to date like other States have done in order to cater for the shipping that is now used and will be used over the next  20  years? With the advent of natural gas and nuclear energy the whole outlook for coal has changed. Once it might have been thought that if we dug too deeply we would be using up a valuable asset, but now alternative fuels have been found. Natural gas, I hope, will soon be piped from South Australia to Sydney. This will make a tremendous difference to coal requirements and to the life of mines which seems to be the principal worry of the honourable member. He might recall that some years ago the same underground coal mines to which he referred held Victoria to ransom while we waited for a ship to bring our coal supplies. Victoria then had to open its own brown coal mines. In this way Victoria freed itself from the control of the New South Wales coa] mining interests. All of these things must be taken into consideration when talking about a national fuel policy. 
A national fuel policy must be looked at in the light of there being  7  responsible authorities -  6  States and the Commonwealth. Not even the Labor Party could lay down a hard and fast national fuel policy. It could not say that the price of coal will be so much and the price of nuclear energy will be so much. This is something that this Government handles on a proper businesslike basis because it knows what it is doing. This morning at question time we heard a discussion about the price of crude oil in Australia. I should like to see an increase in the price of crude oil. I endorse the remarks of the Minister about the irresponsible attitude taken by the Labor Party in this matter. The Government has done a tremendous amount of work in this field and has made available all of its resources. The Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Department of National Development have encouraged in every way the discovery of potential mineralproducing areas by conducting geological and geophysical surveys. This has been done on a national basis as part of a national fuel policy. This is part of ensuring that Aus.trolia does have enough fuel to meet its future needs. The Government can see those needs. In fact, it can see those needs a lot better than can the honourable member for Hughes because he does not have access to the information that is available to the Government. In 1957 the Government initiated its policy of subsidising the exploration for petroleum. That scheme has continued since then. Expenditure to date is $117m. One might add to that the cost of taxation concessions made available to encourage the discovery of new fields. This is an unknown amount but it would be substantial. 
All of the miners at Wonthaggi have lost their jobs. The mines there had to be closed because of the action of certain people in New South Wales. 
I mentioned it a little while ago. Do not waste my time. In 1970 the Bureau of Mineral Resources also made a review of Australia's black coal resources on the basis of existing information. This work v/as carried out with the assistance of industry and particularly of the State Mines Departments. The results were published in June last year in the 'Australian Mineral Industries Quarterly Review'. The figures were collated and showed that we have very considerable resources - 7,000 million tons in fact - of recoverable coking coal. Only 2 years ago we believed that our uranium resources were very small, but with the huge discoveries that have been made Australia in the future will be a major world supplier. Who is to say that we will not discover a lot more coal in Australia? Do honourable members remember the iron ore discoveries? We thought we had only enough iron ore to last us for 10 or 30 years, and now we have enough iron ore for hundreds of years with the prospect in the future of the establishment of great steel processing industries in Australia. If I had the time I could go on and cover many other ways in which the Government is looking forward, encouraging the discovery of resources and doing everything that is possible to achieve the co-ordination of resources so that a national fuel policy will naturally follow. If we are to under stand the problems and potentialities of our own needs and resources we have to research them ourselves, and this the Government is doing and doing very well indeed. 
The Dairying Industry Bill is, as usual, a very short one. Its sole purpose, on the face of it, is to extend for 5 years the present arrangement which will expire now on 30th June 1977. This is the 5th plan that has been put into operation for a 5-year period. Since 1957, which is three or four terms ago, the rate of subsidy has been fixed at $27m to which has been added in the last 2 years a bonus by way of devaluation allowance. Last year the total was $40. 8m. 
The purpose of the devaluation allowance is no longer applicable because sales to the British market are only one-sixth of what they used to be and will be nil when Britain enters the European Economic Community in 1973. 
I appear to be the only one in this Parliament who has, when we have been debating this renewal plan each 5 years, called for an increase in the amount fixed in 1957. Before that the bounty was variable, depending on a cost of production calculation. But the leaders of that day settled for a fixed sum for the ensuing 5 years, and that arrangement has been carried on ever since. I do not think that they envisaged that the bounty would be frozen at that figure, but I have at each subsequent renewal asked for an increase in the amount to take into account the change in value of money and to bring the incomes of dairy farmers into line with salary and wage increases which have improved the incomes of the whole community except those in primary industry. I am speaking particularly now of the low incomes that have been prevalent in the dairy industry over the greater part of the last three 5-year plans. I believe that this is equitable and should be done. Everyone else seems to get an increase, perhaps with the exception of parliamentarians. However, in the case of the dairy industry the amount of $27m has remained frozen for all that time. I protest that it is time that this amount was raised. I do not say this because the devaluation allowance no longer applies. I do not suggest that we should go back to an amount of $40. 8m as was requested by the industry. I am not able to calculate the figure, but I believe it definitely should be not less than $35m. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  spoke about the 2-price quota plan. The only part of his reasoning with which I could agree is that he does have great faith in the future of the dairying industry. I am sure that the dairying industry in Australia has a very bright future if it is tailored to meet production requirements of each year or of each 5 years. 1 would prefer a plan for each year. Representatives of the dairying industry unanimously approved on 1st November 1971 the proposal for this 5-year plan to include provision for a 2-price quota scheme. It was considered by State Ministers for Agriculture at a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council on 15th February 1972. Council accepted the quota scheme in principle. The Victorian Minister for Agriculture has always been reluctant in this matter and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has not given us an assurance that Victoria will come into line with all the other States in case of need. The Victorian attitude is that production control - that is really a bad term to use - must be applied only when necessary. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has pointed out that there is no possibility of getting a scheme operative by 1st July to be applied to the forthcoming 1972-73 season. The Minister has also been quaintly reticent about the terms of the scheme. I asked a question a few weeks ago seeking the following information. I want to put it on record again because I have not yet had an answer. I asked the Minister: 
What is the base period upon which the quota will be worked out? What formula will be used to split up the national quota among States? What will happen about quota shortfalls? Will they be carried forward? Will quotas be transferrable without restriction? Will quotas be freely negotiable? Will highly productive farmers in Victoria be forced to cut back production while high cost producers in other States are encouraged to stay in business? 
I added - because to me this seemed to be the case - as my final question: 
Or has the quota proposal now been effectively killed? 
The Minister's reply shed no light on these interesting points about which everyone in the industry, particularly everyone in Victoria, wants to know. The Minister acknowledged my very real concern for dairy producers in my own area and said that I regard them as some of the most efficient in Australia. This is true. Not only do I regard them as some of the most efficient in Australia; they are the most efficient. My concern is not only for producers in my own area, although that is of course foremost in mind. My concern is for the whole future of the dairying industry in Australia, not just for this year or next year but I am looking forward to 10 years time when I will not be here. I am looking at this question dispassionately for the good of the industry itself, not because I have some axe to grind. 
Other States need viable industries too but the present basis of equalisation is perpetuating a system of encouraging inefficient producers to stay in business instead of setting up a firmly based industry that can offer a profitable future to the people who can maximise their incomes - this is the important part of the scheme that we want to know about - in the lowest cost production areas. Certainly this is mainly in Victoria, and some of the best of them would be in Gippsland, of which the electorate of McMillan forms a very large part. The Minister went on in answer to my question to relate the information that the Victorian Government wanted the scheme to be flexible. Of course the scheme must be flexible. On 29th March the Minister said that present thinking was that the Australian Dairy Industry Council scheme should have within it a tool which would enable the industry to adapt the volume of production to available markets if that should be necessary at some now uncertain future time. This is what the Minister said. That seems to be a good answer to the question: 'Has the quota proposal been effectively killed?' The change in attitude of the Minister since November has effectively killed it. The Minister went on to say: 
It is for that reason . . . that the base period . . . has not been definitely set. It is not intended that the scheme should be implemented immediately but that it should be available for implementation at such time as the overseas market position warrants some form of production restraint mechanism. 
How could a scheme ever be available for implementation if no-one is prepared to set out in detail what the plan is? We must have guidelines. We must have a basis on which we can work. We must have something on which to build up a case, not all this negligible airy-fairy talk that we hear. It is of no use to say: 'When we get to that stage we will do something about it.' It will be too late then. It should be pretty obvious to anybody with the interests of the industry at heart that the present boom is due to burst in the not too distant future. It may be that 18 months or 2 years is as much as we are likely to get of the bonanza of prices which exist today for our export surpluses. Do not take just my word about this. I do not have sufficient time in this debate to read what the present  chairman  of the Australian Dairy Produce Board,  Mr E.  G. Roberts, has said so often. I could quote bis words which give much the same meaning except he did not say that it would be 2 years. However, that was the very strong implication in what he had to say. 
When the boom is over, under the present set-up of equalisation prices will be dragged down by the unprofitable export surplus to the benefit of inefficient producers in Queensland, northern New South Wales and in Western Australia who will have their returns boosted at the expense of Victorian producers who could maximise their returns by splitting equalisation into the components of the 2-price scheme and producing only for what I call the dead loss market if it suited them to produce more than the quota and their production costs permitted marginal pricing. This is one point on which I disagree entirely with what the honourable member for Dawson said. The honourable member indicated that Labor policy would be to take away the quota or the bounty from Victorian producers and give it to the inefficient producers in Queensland. If that is what the Labor Party will do if it ever forms the Government-- 
He did. 
Just briefly I want to repeat my claim that if the industry is to get on to a satisfactory basis it is essential that there should be radical changes in the personnel of the Australian Dairy Produce Board. This is tied up with the whole future of the industry. The way the Board has been going on in the last few years is entirely unsatisfactory. We can no longer afford to appoint retired dairy farmers who have come up through one section of the industry to represent producers as a whole. Three members are appointed from the ranks of the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation. The panel from which members should be selected by the Minister should also include the names of representatives from organisations whose members do not have representation in the ADFF. As an alternative, the ADFF could embrace all members. This would not be very hard to do if the industry were to get down to tin tacks. One member is selected from each State to represent co-operative factories. The suppliers are required to vote if there is more than one nomination. This is a rarity but it has happened in Victoria this year because of our great interest in the future of dairying. They are required to vote but they have no right to make a nomination of their own choice. They cannot select someone for whom they want to vote. They have to vote for the person who is nominated by the chairmen of 3 co-operative factories. As a consequence, this system of nomination results in a candidate coming from the ranks of the strongest group of co-operatives, and this is not fair representation for the people who are doing all the hard work of maintaining this industry as a viable unit. 
There is one other point that is not quite to my satisfaction. Victorian producers are not being given the representation to which they are entitled when we consider the major role that Victoria plays in the production of dairy products. Perhaps some rearrangement could be made so that Victoria would have 2 representatives and perhaps the representation from Western Australia and South Australia could be linked. But that is a matter of detail. I earnestly ask that when consideration is being given to changing the representation on the Australian Dairy Produce Board, which I hope will not be much longer delayed, a stronger voice will be given to Victoria. 
The 2 members on the Board representing the proprietary factories are appointed on the basis of the tonnage of butter and cheese produced. Consequently, it is a lay down misere. Under the present arrangement, whoever is nominated by Kraft Foods Ltd and Peters Milk Pty Ltd is automatically appointed to the Board. The people in those factories are not entirely disinterested people. Some of them are interested in the production of margarine, and a lot of them are very interested in the importation of cheese. Are they going to go on to the Board and vote against the interests of the factories which they represent? Of course not. I hesitate to say that proprietary factories should not have any representation on the Board because there is no doubt that with their great knowledge of the business they can make a great contribution. But in Victoria in recent times we have seen the extraordinary value that is placed on becoming a member of the Board and the amount of money which people are prepared to spend in order to remain a member of the Board. I know that the Minister told me once that when a person is appointed to a board, when he attends board meetings he divorces his mind from his own private interests and does his best for the people whom he represents. But it is questionable whether the people from the proprietary factories represent their companies or the producers. The people representing proprietary factories are appointed to the board on the basis of the tonnage of butter and cheese produced. A factory that includes butter oil in its output does not have the amount of butter oil included in the tonnage of butter or cheese that it produces. Presumably butter oil was not known at the time when these rules were laid down, but surely it is time that butter fat equivalent or some such factor was used to determine the basis of voting. 
I have a couple of minutes remaining, so I should like to turn to another aspect altogether. One of the things that is unequal in the marketing of dairy products within Australia is the emphasis placed on cheese. Once upon a time there was equal subsidy based on whether one was producing butter or cheese, and this was a pretty equitable arrangement. But with the enormous boost that has been given to butter factory returns by the extraordinary prices paid for casein and milk powder, cheese makers are so disadvantaged that it is really time that thought was given to equalising the subsidy in order to encourage the production of cheese. Cheese is the great growth factor in the dairy industry. The world will not want a great deal more butter, but it will want a great deal more casein and milk solids in general. Protein will be most important. As I say, cheese is a growth factor, but cheese producers are finding difficulty in competing with the high prices for milk that are being offered by butter factories. This is purely a temporary state of affairs and the position will even out. But in the meantime it would be a good thing if encouragement were given to produce the very article which the dairy industry needs most in order to expand. 
I have every faith that the dairy industry will find its feet. At the present time, the industry is very uncertain as to where it is going, and I believe that it would be advantageous if the Minister would take some time - not necessarily tonight - to answer the questions that I asked earlier in my speech. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of the threat by the Australian Dairy Produce Board that it will confiscate supplies of milk powder to bolster its ailing Asian dairy plants? The 
Board says that it will pay only cut rates and that it will refuse export permits for contracts that have already been made at the high ruling rates which are current today unless factories agree to this sacrifice of existing customers. I ask: Will the Minister please stop this highway robbery and at least insist on the Board paying the going world prices? 
I take grave exception to the insinuation that the Government's intentions are dishonest. This is the sort of thing we have been hearing too often from the Opposition. The Government has approached this matter with an open mind, to try to review an Act that has been in existence for a very long time and to try to make it better. For a member of the Opposition to stand up and say that the intentions of the Government are dishonest is an extremely poor state of parliamentary debate. It does not mean anything. 
lt is not new. The Opposition can be dishonest as the Government can be on the right occasion. In this case the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has put in months and months of hard slogging trying to present a restructuring of this very difficult situation. For the Opposition to accuse the Government of a dishonest approach leaves me without any words to describe what I really think of the Opposition. Honourable members opposite would not like to know my thoughts on it. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  was talking about a wages policy and a prices policy. The clauses we are discussing have nothing to do with that. Surely the dishonesty is in the concept of the Opposition's bringing up items under these clauses that have nothing to do with that. We are supposed to be debating a series of clauses Which have to do with the- 
I am talking about proposed sections 28 to 3 1 in clause 1 3. Is that right? 
The honourable member is evidently not sure. I am talking about that and he does not seem to know what we are talking about. 
Hear, hear! If Opposition members wish to bring into this debate some reference to a wages policy and a prices policy I will be very happy to accommodate them at the appropriate time by giving some views on the difference between what they call a minimum wage and what 1 call a maximum price. Any honourable member opposite who happens to have lived during the last war - not many of them would have done so - would have understood what the Labor government did to this country when it had price fixing. Price fixing meant either that something went under the counter or that the sheen was taken off it and people received very poor quality. I hope and pray that this will never happen in this country again. 1 know that the Opposition will not agree to this, but if we are going to have price fixing we will insist that we maintain '.he standards which Australian industry heeds to be able to compete with the rest of the world; we will maintain our standards of quality but the worker will put in a full day's work occasionally and will see to it that we get the quality we need so that we can compete; and we will charge for that a reasonable amount to cover the profit of the people who are concerned in it. Nobody on this side of the chamber wants excessive profits for anybody. AH we want to do is maintain industry in a stable state so that it will give employment to people who Opposition members say they represent, although half the time they do not really represent them at all because they are encouraging them to go out of work and not receive wages. This is a completely ridiculous situation. I would like to adapt the words of the honourable member for Cunningham and say that this is a dishonest approach to the whole matter. 
We on this side of the House believe in full employment for all of the people all of the time. The proposed new sections of the clause under discussion deal with whether conciliation commissioners are to refer to the Full Bench, if I might put it that way, matters concerning the public interest. Of course it is in the public interest to get the most that we possibly can out of industry. I have been spurred into entering this debate simply to correct the record and say that the honourable member for Cunningham is wrong in insinuating that the approach of this Government is dishonest. If anything, the position is the reverse. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to recent legislation dealing with resale price maintenance. Is the Minister aware that the section dealing with so-called 'loss leadering' is capable of being interpreted loosely, since there is no precise definition of the term 'cost'? Is the Minister aware that certain discount retail stores interpret the term 'cost' as the figure at which they purchase the goods from the manufacturer plus a nominal amount which can under no circumstances be regarded as a fair and reasonable apportionment of selling costs and overheads thus, in effect, loss leadering' the manufacturer's product without his concurrence? Does the Government propose to counter the situation by amending the appropriate section of the legislation to clarify the situation and thus avert expensive impending litigation, the cost of which eventually must be borne by the consumer? 
I had no intention of saying anything on this Bill until I heard the speech of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  It was such a disgusting speech that I thought it was up to one of the back benchers on this side of the chamber to answer it, because I do not believe that the Minister for Supply and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  will answer it. I support the proposal contained in the Bill for a number of reasons, one of which is that I have been asking the Government for the last 5, 6 or 8 years, as Secretary of the Government Members Mining Committee, to take away this discretion that was abused by the  Deputy  Commissioners of Taxation in several States. 
The honourable member for Blaxland called this Government a shabby Government, and I object vigorously to this. He said that we have introduced this legislation in order to protect the big speculator as against the small man and this shows how little he knows about the speculative world, stock exchanges or anything else that I have ever heard him talk about. 
I did not say that he took advantage of it at all. I said that it was at the discretion of the  Deputy  Commissioners of Taxation who, because they had this discretion, harassed people. They had no guidelines. I have been asking for guidelines to be laid down for the last 5, 6 or 8 years - I have forgotten just how long. Most of the  Deputy  Commissioners of Taxation wanted guidelines laid down. Just to put the record straight for my friend, the honourable member for Blaxland - and this is really where I started my speech - the big speculator is classed as a professional. He pays his tax and he incurs his losses. 
I agree with that, too, because in recent years the losses have been very heavy. It is all very well to say that people who invested in Poseidon and the other mining ventures have made a lot of money. Most of the people who saw those stocks rise held onto them, but the stocks went down again. There were people who came in and made big money out of stocks. But obviously no-one would entertain the idea that those professional men, because of their position, were buying these stocks just as an investment. Obviously they were bought as speculative stocks, and no-one could argue about that. But there were thousands of people who saw fit, at the time of the mining boom, to come along and say: 'We will put a bit of faith in Australia; we will try our money'. 
It was spare money. They might have taken it to the races, and they could have lost or won but it would have had no effect on the Commissioner of Taxation. But because they chose to have a bit of a punt on some oil or mining shares which have gone bad, the imputation is that they will now try to cash in on their losses. If these people had to pay tax on their gains, I maintain that they should be allowed to claim a deduction when they sell out and make a loss. But the reason why the Government has introduced this legislation is because the speculative risk money is drying up. 
Yes, and Australia wants risk money. Australia wants people to come in and take a gamble on whether these mining or oil ventures will come good. You will never get anywhere in this country unless you are prepared to really get in and go after the resources that we have. Something should be done to encour age the people who have been prepared to put their money where they felt it would do some good for them and for Australia. They did not invest their money with the idea that they would make some money. They knew that if the ventures in which they were investing came good they would be very beneficial for Australia. 
And for themselves, and why not? All I want to point out is that the reason the Government has introduced this legislation is not to give some great benefit to the professionals who have always been in the game, who always will be in the game and who are prepared to take their losses without grumbling because they know that they will have an opportunity to make it up again, but to encourage the small people whose risk money has dried up. What are these people doing now? They are putting their money into the bank where it is not doing anybody in Australia any good. That is the reason why bank balances are so high today. The Government is to be commended for trying to give the small investor an opportunity to participate in a field which, prior to the mining and oil boom, was left entirely to the large investors. 
I ask of the Prime Minister a question which refers to the perilous state of the domestic appliances industry as indicated by a Tariff Board staff paper. Is he aware that manufacturers have had to retrench large numbers of employees each week recently, including those employed in important decentralised plants? The Prime Minister will be aware that these manufacturers must project their plans well ahead to enable production schedules to conform to anticipated demand. Can he give an assurance that economic measures are being planned to provide immediate guidelines to these industries? 
On behalf of the Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits I bring up the report of the Committee together with the minutes of the proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the growing discontent among wool growers due to Government inaction on wool marketing and especially to procrastination in giving assurances that would enable them to plan for the coming wool season? Is the real reason for not at least accepting the lot building plan to replace the present inadequate price averaging plan, that l.b.p. would cover at least 50 per cent of the clip and is to all intents and purposes a form of acquisition - a solution which is desired by the wool industry but which for some unexplained reason is rejected by most of the Cabinet? 
This must be one of the most frivolous amendments to be put before the House for a very long time. I cannot understand what the Opposition is trying to do. Members opposite seem to be crazy about having a plan for this and a plan for that, to believe that we must have a national inquiry and goodness only knows what. If only members opposite knew something about the subject about which they talk. They are entitled to have their views, but forestry planning, conservation, ecology and all those sorts of things are, in general terms, separate altogether from the terms of the Bill that is before the House. When honourable members consider these aspects they should bear in mind the efforts that are being made by foresters to ensure that the environment will be improved by the culture of forests. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that he recognised that the foresters were very conservation minded. Of course they are; the whole of their training is directed towards conservation. If members of the Opposition had any understanding of this subject they would know that by their remarks they have cast a slur not only on officers of the Commonwealth Forestry and Timber Bureau but also on officers of the State forests departments. 
The honourable member for Dawson raised a couple of side issues. He asked how far softwood plantings could encroach upon the hardwood forests. I am a little sorry to see that the Bill is concerned only with softwood forests because in Victoria a great number of plantations are devoted to hardwoods. There are certain areas where hardwoods are the most suitable variety to plant, whereas in other areas pines are more suitable. These are matters which constantly are being taken into account. The honourable member for Dawson spoke about erosion. Erosion is one of the main reasons why anyone plants trees in an orderly fashion, rather than allow nature to run wild and create problems with black spear grass, of which the honourable member spoke, wild rushes and everything else that makes so much of our forest areas unattractive. That is why I complained that this is a frivolous amendment which should not have been moved. Members of the Opposition seem always to want to amend everything that they can see. Time after time we have seen this. They never give reasons for adopting this approach. They merely want to interfere. 
The Bill is designed to continue for 5 years assistance provided to States in order to expand the rate of softwood plantings. There is no doubt that our requirement of softwood products is growing constantly. As we achieve greater industrialisation we will require much more paper for wrapping and packing. All paper products will be in greater demand. As the nation's building requirements grow we will need more timber. Two very important products of softwood are pineboard and particle board. They have given modern living a great lift because it is so easy to obtain marvellous finishes for the linings of houses. These boards can be used with marvellous ease to provide cupboards and other conveniences throughout the house. This is one of the most rapidly developing areas of need for building materials and consideration should be given to production to provide for the future use of such materials. 
When considering forests we must look many years ahead. From 1966 to 1971. the States increased their area of planting by 265,000 acres. That is a quite considerable increase. Under this Bill the Commonwealth Government will make available another $21m and, with this assistance, the States expect to plant a further 273,400 acres. The finance to be made available will be from loan funds which will be offered at very favourable terms. It will be free of interest for the first 10 years and repayable over 25 years. The sum made available is geared to the cash flow from plantings, but it must be born in mind that there is no return from plantings until trees are 15 years old. It seems a little hard to understand why there is provision for two periods of 10 years when the States will not begin to receive a return from their plantings until the trees are 15 years old. 
Under the provisions of the Bill the Commonwealth will finance 25,000 acres a year and the States will finance the balance of 29,680 acres. However, the States will decide where the plantings will take place. Naturally, they will be in State forests which often will be quite remote and considerable distances from the mills. The private plantings are expected to remain constant, as they have been for some time, at about 15,000 acres. 
The arrangements seem to be based on quantity - how much the States can plant - but no one seems to care whether the trees are so far away from the point of treatment that they might as well not have been planted. I join with my friend the honourable member for Braddon in saying that it might be a much better idea if some of this money were to be made available to private enterprise so that the people who want to plant trees around their mills and to have them easily accessible will be able to do so. This could increase the amount of private planting from 15,000 acres to, perhaps, 25,000 acres and would be of great help to the industry as a whole. It would encourage decentralisation of industry. 
Yes, I agree with that. If the idea is to provide for our needs in softwoods, one would expect some consideration of how the needs will be fulfilled to ensure that the wood can be treated when it is ready. I hope we will be looking at this point in the next 5 years. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in his second reading speech said: 'This scheme's final objective is to ensure timber is available for the forest industries. . . . This scheme will provide raw material for expansion and growth of Australian industry ... it will provide . . . employment opportunities in rural areas.' I want to emphasise the point I was making, that it does not seem to have occurred to anyone - it was not brought out in the speeches that have been made - that the economics of using forestry products are related directly to the distance of haulage to the mills. Private enterprise could not operate in the same way as State projects do. I question whether government plantings have been located in areas best suited to the mills. We have an example in the Australian Capital Territory where trees were planted with no sign of the timber being used because there was nowhere to take it. So somebody has had to come in and start a mill in order to use the timber. But in order to get the utmost benefit out of the work that is put in, the chips must be hauled long distances to another mill, and this is not really economic. Transport costs are a vital factor in the economy of this industry. 
It is not generally known that forest products are Australia's biggest single import item after petroleum. We are reducing our dependence on petroleum with discoveries of oil in Bass Strait, and I hope that before very long oil will be discovered in other places. But unless we provide assistance to private enterprise engaged in the forestry field we will be up against it in trying to plant sufficient areas to meet our requirements. The use of forest products is growing so rapidly that I doubt that our present rates of plantings will keep up with demand unless we give the industry further encouragement. It is a matter of integrating the whole industry - Commonwealth, State and private enterprise forest services. I emphasise that most of the world's manmade forests are owned and controlled by private enterprise - but this is not the case in Australia. I should like to see the present policy in Australia reversed. The world pattern shows that full economies can best be achieved by private enterprise. 
Paper industries grow up and pulp can be obtained from suitable species. Industries can work out the quantities of pulp they require, and in most cases they can obtain the necessary pulp within 40 to 60 miles of a mill. Chips are obtained near the port of shipment. Material for board is found near the factory. A mill can extend its operations into the forest to obtain timber for sawmilling. The first essential is to have the resources established close to the point of usage and market opportunities. For maximum profitability the entire crop must be available to a full range of wood using industries capable of turning it into pulp, chips, particle board, veneers and finally timber. The cost of growing the pines, from planting to harvesting, is a relatively minor cost compared with the total cost of wood delivered to the factory. 
I have mentioned that insufficient thought is given to the establishment of State controlled forests close to the point of marketing of the crop, but of even more consequence is the fact that government plantings have not been co-ordinated with private plantings. The actual cost of establishing a plantation is comparatively low. The major costs are in transport and harvesting. Private enterprise is disadvantaged because of capital outlay on land purchased, interest, payment of shire rates and various taxes. Sometimes the leasehold of Crown land can be arranged, but this is still a greater cost than the cost of government plantations, and the incidence of shire rates is very heavy. Governments usually carry their own insurance, but private companies have responsibilities to shareholders, and because of this it is necessary for private companies to introduce better fire protection measures. So they are required to spend more money per acre. 
Extensions of plantings have occurred where the States have made a small amount of money available to people so that they can plant trees on their farms, and this is a very profitable and useful exercise in farming if it can be done. But again these plantings are inclined to get too far away from a mill. I will take what happens in Britain as an example of what happens generally overseas. In Britain it is the practice to make grants to private entrepreneurs on the basis of the area of plantation, and I believe that this policy could be introduced in Australia. In the electorate of McMillan is the Maryvale Mill which is owned by the Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. It was first established as a pulp mill and pioneered the production of eucalypt pulp. Today 2 paper machines have been added to the company's plant, and the pulp requirement is 14 million cubic feet of eucalypt and 5 million cubic feet of pinewood. A third machine is desirable for scale of operation economy. 
Pulp output could be expanded enormously if the raw material could be obtained within reasonable haulage distances. This company is going ahead with its planting, and I hope that the next step which the Government takes in relation to this forestry legislation will be to make money available to private enterprise. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by pointing out that, following the recent industrial dispute within the oil distribution and fuel marketing industry, it is obvious to everybody that, in this area, Australia's economy is most  vulnerable. Would the Prime Minister please review his Government's incentives for private enterprise to discover and to develop commercial oilfields within Australia, both on-shore and off-shore, as a matter of national urgency? 
My question is  directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I know that the Minister is aware of the increase in imports of cheap shirts and blouses and other made-up garments totalling $46m in the past year. Has he noticed that as a consequence some garment manufacturers are retaining staff only by working a 32-hour week? Would it not be better for Australia to adopt import quotas for the purpose of swelling the pay packets of workers in Australian factories rather than those of workers in Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan and other Asian countries? 
This is the most successful Budget of recent years. I say that because of the way that it has been received by the public and the Press - in fact by everybody concerned. They have indicated that they believe it will be beneficial to so many people and should therefore receive acclaim. For instance, the Government is pouring $592m of extra cash into circulation. Out of this amount, tax cuts make up $432m. This puts more spending money into pay packets. Pensioners will receive $145m and repatriation benefits will increase by SI 5m. The stimulus of this at retail trade level will be felt by everybody. Not only will the effect be seen in the supply of goods and services but also it will circulate right through the entire wholesale industry and back through the manufacturing industries and so result in more employment. 
This is the objective of the Government and this is what it will achieve. We can expect from this a more buoyant economy. We can expect more projects to be started, more home building and more business ventures. People, instead of sitting back and waiting to see whether things will improve some time or other, as has been the unfortunate tendency of the doleful prognostications of the Opposition, will feel now that they can have confidence to commence their projects because they know that Australia has all the attributes required for success and that they can hope for better business. Of course, in doing this, there will be a certain amount of pressure on prices and possibly some tendency towards inflation - inflation being the result of somebody having the opportunity to make a little more money because the demand does not require him to follow the practice which some people have tried to encourage of giving people goods at cheaper prices. 
For this reason I believe that we should have a prices justification tribunal. 1 do not mean that we should have any degree of price fixing such as we had during the last war. Those of us who had to endure flint sort of thing will fight against it as hard as we possibly can,, but there should be some means by which to show that a price increase has some justification. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has called this 'prices notification', but 1 want a little more than that. 1 want someone to say: 'Well, yes, we accept your notification of the increased price'. I have no doubt that all the criticism of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd for increasing its prices a little while ago without, it was said, any reference to government to obtain approval for doing this, just on its own volition- 
Yes- done by its board of directors on the facts the board had before it. lt would have been no trouble for its board of directors to have gone to somebody and said: 'This is the position: Our costs have gone up because of the strikes and the go-slows and the increased wages demands. This is the figure that comes out. lt is necessary to put the price up'. Then it would have been approved. I do not think there is any worry about that. 1 also like the proposition that is being put forward in the Senate at the moment by the Democratic Labor Party senators, for an additional curb by way of legislation to prevent manufacturers from increasing prices - a price limiting Bill. We all know the effect which uncurbed increases had last year. Collusive arrangements were made in the metal trades and many other trades - collusive arrangements between management and unions. These arrangements are made outride the processes of arbitration. The one great need in Australia today is to curb the inordinate demands of outrageous increases in wages. I say outrageous because the oil maintenance people wanted an increase of S27 a week - an increase, mind you. They got away with an arrangement for a $13 increase - $8 now and $5 later. Ground staff at airports asked for $30 a week extra - an increase of $30 a week which I regard as quite ridiculous. This illustrates the sort of pressure exerted by these outside arrangements. Much has been said about the form in which the Budget has been presented and the fact that it makes benefits available in so many areas. It has been said that this has been done only to win an election. I am sure it will win an election but that does not mean that the Budget has been presented in this form purely and simply for that purpose. People should know of the hard work that has been undertaken by a lot of committees that were appointed last year - not this year, suddenly to rub something up for the election. People have been studying the various areas in which the Government could make improvements, which is naturally the objective of any government in its administration. All of that work has been done behind the scenes. The results of that work have been made available to the Ministers concerned and as a result, very successful moves have been made to improve conditions. 
One particular aspect I would like to mention is the help to be given to people in old people's homes. This is a matter on which I will elaborate further when the relevant Bill is presented because it will be of inestimable benefit, lt is something that we have needed for a long time. As a result of the committee work that has been done behind the scenes this is one matter contained in the Budget. There are many other matters. 
Many people regard the great urban crisis - as it is called - as the problem of the decade. Australia is the most urbanised nation of all. with 86 per cent of its people living in cities which are bogged down with traffic congestion which lack proper amenities - particularly on the outskirts - and which have antiquated transport due to the suburb sprawl. There is only one solution to the problem, and that is to attract the population away from the cities. But even if one million people could be transferred to suitable regional centres in each State, the effect on crowding in the cities would be extremely marginal, lt is most unlikely that this would reduce growth, it would only lessen the impact of the present rate of growth by decentralisation. 
There are really 2 problems to solve. Concentration of population in cities results in high social costs in those cities; it creates major inequality of social and economic opportunities in non-metropolitan areas. But worse still - and this is the problem with which I am concerned, although the other is of great importance to the community as a whole - all of these difficulties, inequalities and limitations are emphasised by the economic stagnation of inland towns. Regretfully, the record of the Commonwealth in this area is very poor. The New South Wales State Government has made some attempt to tackle the problem, by appointing a Minister to concentrate on it, and it has been moderately successful. The Victorian State Government has made some half-hearted attempts to tackle the problem by carrying out door-knock programmes in order to acquaint the people and manufacturers with the advantages of going to the country. 
State governments allow freight concessions and things of that nature, but almost in the same breath they discount these concessions by placing a limitation on the use of road transport. Very little encouragement has been given by offering financial assistance. Local municipal councils have done their bit. They have offered rate concessions, but this is not fair to the other ratepayers. They borrow money with which they build factories and they make special efforts to provide roads and services for the people who go to their towns. Local municipal councils have produced quite elaborate booklets. A lot of work has gone into the production of these fine booklets which point out the merits of particular areas. All of this is very good; but it is obviously not as good as it should be because it is not getting results. A different approach is needed. To be effective the population must be built up to a worth while level. A population of around 200,000 seems' to be a reasonable figure. A city of that population can generate its own expansion. The available market is sufficient to attract service industries and amenities can be established at a level that makes them attractive. It is also possible to have the schools, hospitals, libraries and other things that go with a reasonable sized city. The building up of regional centres would mean that the towns within 50 to 60 miles of them - within one hour's driving time of them - would benefit from a reflection of the advantages in those regional areas. 
Probably the best region for development in Victoria is the Latrobe Valley, with Morwell as the hub and embracing in a 10-mile radius or less Moe, Yallourn, Traralgon and Churchill, where there is already an overall population of some 60,000 and there are the major facilities of a base hospital, the basic heavy industry of power production, a paper mill, an already established substantial industrial work force, which is very essential, and access to the port of Westernport at the present time but preferably the establishment of a port at Welshpool in the future. There are ample natural resources, such as water, and facilities for recreational and cultural activities. There is an adequate provision of high schools and a technical college. 
There is also the opportunity, which unfortunately is not being taken advantage of, of making the Gippsland Institute of Advanced Education one of the State's finest education centres, which would be the case if it were not starved of funds. The Commonwealth-State allotment of finance to the Institute for the next triennium can only be called a starvation diet. The Institute needs $7m for its minimum requirements. It needs that amount just to function at the level at which it was established. But the allotment for the next 3 years is Si. 6m, which will mean stagnation - certainly stagnation as far as making it possible to extend the number of students which that institution can accommodate is concerned. My point is that governments do not seem to care or even to be prepared to honour their intentions. We know that they meant this Institute to go ahead. So, for regions like this to expand it is necessary for the people concerned in the development of the area - the people who would benefit from the growth of the region as a centre for Gippsland as a whole - to do something about it. 1 am hopeful that the Government Parties will come out in their election policy speech with a statement about the provision of some assistance for decentralisation. But even that is unlikely to be adequate when one considers that any assistance provided would have to be spread over the whole of Australia. It is an enormous problem. So, I have proposed a self-help scheme which I believe would be a major contribution to overcoming the problem. I want the leading citizens of the region to get together in a private company, with a capital of $250,000, for the sole purpose of going after industries which they feel can operate profitably and permanently in the region. I want these citizens to reverse the process of expecting industry to select an area as suitable. The citizens themselves should go out and select the industries that they believe the area needs and put up proposals for joint ventures, particularly for joint ventures which will take advantage of the local natural resources. 
I - think everyone knows that the major resource of the Latrobe Valley is its brown coal deposits. It has enormous deposits of brown coal. At the present rate of usage and growth in demand it has enough for hundreds of years. This brown coal can be converted into dozens of final products. Already there is an active char industry which is doing very well. There is plenty of scope for plastics, and probably one of the most interesting industries would be the conversion of brown coal to oil for the production of petrol. With the failure of the Government to support oil exploration on a scale commensurate with the vital importance of supplying future oil requirements, and also with the vulnerability of our off-shore supplies in the Bass Strait, it would be a sensible precaution and a commendable step in national development to make available finance for a feasibility study, in which the old gas and fuel complex could be used as a base, to see just what the cost would be. Expert advice from similar projects carried out in Africa and Europe indicate a net cost for high octane petrol of approximately 10c a gallon, which makes it very competitive wilh the price motorists are asked to pay now. This would be so even when the burden of excise duty was added. 
One very pleasing feature of this Budget is the reduction in the level of estate duty. This is a benefit which will extend to 95 per cent of present dutiable estates. So a lot of people eventually will reap some benefit from this provision. Approximately 50 per cent of all former dutiable estates will be totally exempt from estate duty. 
But having gone this far, the Government should have gone to the full extent of removing what is a mean tax that we could well do without. The real purpose of this tax has long since vanished. We no longer want to break up estates in Australia. We do not have large estates to be broken up. This is a mean tax which imposes hardship and despair on people who already have suffered a tragedy in the loss of a loved partner and breadwinner. At the very least there should be no tax whatever imposed when the estates goes to the widow of the deceased person. 
I want to commend the efforts of  Senator Negus  in another place, not only for what he is doing there but also for getting around the countryside and letting people know the tragedy that can result from their ignorance. I attended a meeting with  Senator Negus  the other night. It astounded me to hear him recounting the many cases of hardship that have come to his notice because of the fact that he has specialised in this field. In my personal experience I have come to know dozens of people in my electorate who have been affected by this tax. I feel that one avenue in which the Government could well benefit the people, if it wishes to make an adjustment to do so, is by completely getting out of the field of estate duty. Of course, the States would have to get out of the field of probate duty as well, because the situation would be hopeless if the Commonwealth stepped out of a field and the States stepped in and took over. Of course, the Australian Capital Territory would be exempt from these duties if the Commonwealth got out of this field of taxation. This is an area in which hardship is placed on people when they have to dispose of their property. After spending a lifetime building up a worthwhile asset, and just when everything is going along nicely, the head of the family might die unexpectedly, leaving the family in the impossible position of having to dispose of their hard earned assets just to satisfy the Treasury. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was the raid by security officers on the homes of a number of Croatian-born Australians, made under the provisions of section 38 of the Crimes Act, seeking evidence of whether Australia is being used as a base for subversive actions against a foreign power? When is it intended to take the same action to determine whether certain Australians - I mention George Crawford as one - who recently visited North Vietnam were using Australia as a base for subversive action in support of a foreign power in its campaign to overthrow the Government of South Vietnam? 
My question which is addressed to the Acting Minister for Health concerns the mercury content in fish. What quantity of shark meat would it be necessary for a person to eat before any indications of deleterious effect would be evident? Is there evidence in countries such as Sweden, Japan and so on, where fish consumption is much higher than in Australia, of illness due to the build up of mercury in the human body? Will the Minister please do everything he can to bring about most speedily a correction of the regulation concerning the mercury content in fish so that the valuable fishing industry may get back to normal and so that fishermen will be allowed to return to a trade that has flourished without devastation to human health for 50 years or more? 
Will the Minister for Customs and Excise receive a petition that has been addressed to me asking for a review of his decision to allow into Australia a book, the clear intention of which is to corrupt and degrade children and to destroy authority, and which is entitled 'The Little Red Schoolbook'? The petition consists of 39 pages with approximately 20 names to the page. So it has been signed by over 700 citizens of McMillan. 
I apologise to the House and particularly to the Hansard writers for the state of my voice but I will do my best to make it audible. There is provision in the Budget Papers for expenditure of about $33m for the dairying industry. This is a considerable drop from the amount for last year due, it is said, to the improvement in the marketing situation. As a result the factories arc very pleased and are naturally seeking every gallon of milk that they can get their hands on. Fifteen years ago the butter and cheese subsidy was set at S27m because the leaders of the industry decided that they wanted a fixed sum rather than accepting the uncertainty that accompanied the old cost of production basis which most people have forgotten. Farm incomes overall have picked up from the last few years of depressed prices but they are declining in comparison with average incomes in the rest of the community. The farmer is asked to overcome this by working harder, putting in longer hours, investing more aids to production, and spending more in pasture management. For the rest of the community there is acceptance of a steady increase in average earnings. But this does not apply to the farming industry. 
In the manufacturing and tertiary sectors of the economy everyone wants a 35-hour working week, and there is no doubt that everyone will get it in the next few years. Indeed, many already have it. For these circumstances I find it incredible that the Government has cut back the total subsidy for this year and continues to use an amount of $27m as the basic subsidy for butter and cheese without making some adjustment upwards to compensate for the change in the value of money. The dairy industry is disadvantaged compared to the rest of the community. I do not think it should be. The subsidy is not a subsidy to the farmer. It was introduced as a subsidy to the consumer to keep the retail price down and to lessen the impact on the consumer price index which legitimate increases should have made with an effect on everybody's cost of living. 
At the present time the price of dairy products is at an all time high and factories this month are paying out millions of dollars to suppliers in the final adjustments for the year. But this does not justify the freezing of the government contribution to the rather complicated pool from which factories are able to make this final payment. In order to maintain the relative benefit arising from government assistance I have regularly asked that the base rate of subsidy should be updated. I am most disappointed at the failure of industry leaders and especially members of the Australian Country Party to give me their support for what I regard to be an essential Budget move. 
I turn to the estimates for the Department "of Trade and Industry. One of the greatest worries in Australia today is the level of unemployment. We all have to do something about it. Everyone in the country has to do something. At 2.14 per cent, using seasonally adjusted figures, it is considerably less than it was in 1961, in spite of attempts by the Opposition to paint the picture as worse than in 1961. The calculated number of 120,000 is slightly more than the 1961 number of 117,000, but the work force has increased by 20 per cent since then. So the position is not really as bad as in 1961 and certainly it is not nearly as bad as it was in the depression years of the 1930s. But the position is too bad for any of us to accept as being at a reasonable level. One of the reasons for unemployment is the brake that has been put on manufacturing industry by the atmosphere of uncertainty as to the future national policy for industrial development. 
An unreasonable agitation for an appreciation of the dollar is one area of uncertainty. I have seen no argument that can show that a curb on capital inflow, if that is one purpose of revaluation, would have a counter effect on inflation. The present level of unemployment is due to a falling off of employment in manufacturing industry which naturally is reflected in falling employment in the service industries. The service industries are completely dependent upon manufacturing industry for their existence. Any action, such as tinkering with the value of the dollar, which would divert demand from Australian production to imports would cancel out the whole Budget strategy of stepping up demand so that idle capacity in industry will be taken up and employment stimulated. 
Another unreasoned agitation is for tariff cuts which would be damaging to the whole economy in the same way. If Australian manufacturers are forced into the position of having a smaller share, of the Australian market and so finding themselves selling less they must manufacture less and there will be less employment of Australians, with a corresponding boost to the employment in overseas factories, with Australian money going to pay the wages of workers in Japan, Hong Kong, China, Europe, America and the rest of the world. I prefer to buy Australian, and so should everyone who wants- to stop the present widespread unemployment. This includes the crazy decisions by the Australian Gas Light Co. to buy pipe from Japan, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  with whom I completely agree. To build a pipeline from the Moomba field to Sydney would provide a terrific amount of employment to the people who make the pipe. It should be made in Australia. It can be made here. Instead of talking of tariff cuts the Government should be introducing quantitative restrictions as has been done in the case of shirts and hold back the flow of imports taking the bread out of Australian mouths. 
Inflation created by wage and salary increases far outstripping productivity is another reason for hesitation in the expansion of manufacturing output. There is no encouragement to new investment when there is no curb on the hard bargaining being indulged in by militant unions. Unless we can put some curb on the excessive wage and salary demands that have done and are still doing excessive damage, not only to Australia as a whole but to the people whom the unions claim to represent, whole sections of industry will be in trouble. 
The Tariff Board's policy is another area of uncertainty. Judgments are proposed as to whether Australia should have a particular industry on the entirely specious argument that it requires rates classified as high, medium and low - a judgment made by the entirely inefficient processes of Tariff Board inquiries. The Government has no way of determining whether the Tariff Board's advice is sound because it does not have full access to the whole facts. The uncertainty as to the future of export incentives is another factor inhibiting healthy growth. Export business is slender margin business subject to erosion. We are due for renewal of our export incentives. 1 do not have time to expand on that point. I would like to. With all these considerations in mind I again urge the Government to establish a ministry of manufacturing industry to give Australian secondary industries the same sort of stimulation and encouragement as is enjoyed by primary industry. The Ministry of Trade and Industry could act as co-ordinator for both of these ministries in relation to all international activities, but the Office of Secondary Industry, whilst serving a most useful function, does not do justice to the future potential of Australia's industrial development. The Office of Secondary Industry does its best, but it cannot hope to perform as well as a separate department. 
Progress reported. 
The first thing that can be said about the Bill is that everybody seems to approve of the fact that the Government has done something. The second thing is that it is also said that the Government has not done enough. That has been said by each  speaker  in this debate, and I repeat it. Death taxes represent a very mean way of filling the coffers of state. They must be paid at a time when a family is having considerable, trouble and has enough to worry about. Several speakers in this debate have referred to cases in which grave difficulties have been imposed on people even to the. extent of bankruptcies caused by the breaking up of estates. 
The whole idea of imposing taxation on an estate left by a man or woman does not seem to have any real justification. If people were building up a lot of assets at the expense of the state and at their deaths the Government caught up with them, one could better understand the logic of death taxes. There is perhaps some justification for death taxes in relation to the breaking up of large estates in Australia but we do not seem to be attacking the subject from that angle. The Treasury looks on probate duty as a way of raising money. I protest that there are very much better ways of raising the revenue of about $80m that comes from estate duty. 
In the present Bill provision is made to double the level of exemption. That sounds very generous, but it is really only a very minor step. I doubt very much that the Government would have taken even that step but for the number of complaints that have been made. Through this legislation about one quarter of the people who under the old exemption levels would be liable for payment of estate duty will now be relieved of that payment. A saving will be made, but at the expense of the families themselves. The biggest discrimination is made against estates that are comprised largely of one asset, usually a farming property. Estates made up of farming properties suffer most from death taxes. All honourable members know of cases involving grave difficulties. I have no hesitation in saying that people do receive the utmost courtesy, sympathy and consideration from estate duty officials who have to administer the legislation and very often they help to make suitable arrangements; but it is beyond their powers not to collect the tax. 
I believe that the Government has now moved because there has been such a public outcry.  Senator Negus  was elected to the other House purely and simply on a platform of the abolition of death taxes. He meant both State and Federal taxes, and it is unfortunate that both taxes should be imposed. I will not go further into that beyond saying that the principle is wrong.  Senator Negus  has pointed out that the difficulties imposed by the taxes outweigh the revenue that is gained from them. Obviously the people agree with him because he was elected as an independent senator purely and simply on that count. He has found that it is rather difficult for an independent senator to get his way immediately, but if he has enough strength and fortitude to follow it up and keep going until his voice is heard - as has happened - he will get a public following to which even governments must listen. 
I am reliably informed that  Senator Negus  has a petition with about 430,000 signatures which in due course he will present to the Senate. I suggest that the Government must take notice of that number of people. In the electorate of McMillan about a week ago I received a deputation which has been collecting signatures, all within the electorate and mostly in one part of it. The group came to my house and presented to me a petition with 2,202 signatures. It is a most unusual case, because the group did not want me to present the. petition to the House; it was brought to me personally. There are at least 2,202 people in my electorate who want me to do something about death taxes. My first move is to speak in this debate today, to bring home to the Government the fact that it has not gone far enough in this area. 
We all agree that the Bill is most acceptable and we will vote for it. It will be gladly received by many people in years to come. However, it has 2 bad faults, the first of which is the close relationship between the exemption of $40,000 for ordinary estates and the exemption of only $48,000 for the estates of primary producers. This has been referred to by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  Farm properties have been built up by the efforts of families over many years. There should be a much wider gap between the 2 exemptions. I suggest that with today's farm values the exemption on farm properties should be at least $100,000. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  mentioned another bad fault and said that its removal was part of the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I do not accept that I am following Labor policy by mentioning the fault because I have mentioned it here before. I say again that there can be no excuse for imposing duty on an estate into the assembling of which a man and his wife have put their years and which on the death of one spouse passes to the other. I speak particularly of fanning estates, but it does not necessarily make any difference to my argument if it is a business into which they have both put their work or any other asset which they have helped each other to build up. Under the present legislation if one dies the other is left with perhaps having to sacrifice the business to pay estate duty. There can be no excuse for the imposiiton of such a tax. This is the first anomaly that should be removed, and the next step I advocate is lifting the exemption on farm properties to $100,000. 
People do not know how to make provision for the payment of estate duty or probate. We are told they can make provision by taking out insurance. But people have complained to me, and they have had every justification for complaining about the high rates that they have to pay every year in insurance premiums when they have no way of finding out the value of the estate for duty purposes or at how much duty will be assessed. If the valuer is employed to make a valuation a person has to pay his fee on top of the insurance premiums. A person cannot go to those who levy the estate duty and say: 'What do you value my estate at?' He cannot go to the local council and get a figure on which he can work. This point has been very well made by earlier speakers. The honourable member for Riverina mentioned the poor woman who was left a few hundred Poseidon shares when they had a market value of $250 each. All of a sudden they came down to today's rate of $11 but she is expected to find double, treble or perhaps even 4 times of what otherwise would be the assessed value for duty purposes. 
It is because of these impossibilities that I wanted to say a few words on this Bill. I believe that the Government would not have done anything in this field unless  Senator Negus  had brought pressure to bear, and I compliment him on having done that. 1 sincerely hope that the weight of public opinion will ensure that in the next Budget presented by the present Treasurer this is one of the duties which will be abolished. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Can the Minister inform the House on the progress of consultations between the Commonwealth and States concerning petroleum, including natural gas? 
I address a question to the Postmaster-General. I have been informed, according to a document in my possession, that to impose a time limit on local telephone calls would impose a cost factor on people who necessarily make calls beyond 3 minutes duration. Will the Postmaster-General immediately and urgently extend the same generous treatment to other people, particularly those in business, by removing the intolerable burden of excessive charges by meter imposed on people making trunk calls as these people also necessarily make calls beyond 3 minutes duration? What justification can there be for discriminating so harshly between subscribers whose needs are identical? 
My question also is directed to the Minister for National Development. 1 ask: Has the Minister seen a report which suggests that petroleum and gas reserves have exponential lives of 20 and 22 years respectively but that fossil fuel reserves are not in danger of exhaustion? The Minister will be aware of the finding of the Eighth World Petroleum Conference that high octane petrol can be economically obtained by the hydrogenation of coal. Will the Minister now institute feasibility studies of the application of the H-coal process, utilising the vast brown coal resources in the Latrobe Valley of Victoria, in the production of oil from coal on the grounds of national security, environmental protection and decentralisation? 
