My question which I direct to the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerns Kampuchea, Are reports that the British Government intends to move in the United Nations' Human Rights Commission for an investigation into alleged atrocities in Kampuchea correct? If so, will Australia support the British move? 
-I am humble and proud to have been elected to the Thirty-first Parliament as the representative of the new electorate of Isaacs. At the outset I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to pass on to the right honourable member for Bruce,  Sir Billy  Snedden, my congratulations on his re-election as  Speaker  of the House of Representatives.  His  capabilities are well known and respected. I hope that my efforts in this Parliament will be as effective as his have been. I extend congratulations also to the honourable member for Wide Bay,  Mr Millar,  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. 
My thoughts at this time turn to all those worthy people who helped me to attain the position in which I find myself today. I arrived in Tasmania in 1951 as a Little Brother sponsored by the Big Brother Movement and settled down to farm work in the beautiful Derwent Valley. In 1952 I was introduced to the Young Liberal Movement and have not looked back since. At that time I met  Senator Reg  Wright, who has remained a great friend and adviser. I believe that he is one of the greatest constitutional lawyers and orators that the national Parliament has seen.  His  advice and guidance to me throughout the years certainly has been most appreciated and never will be forgotten. The national Parliament and Australia will be the losers when Reg Wright retires from the Parliament in June. Following my arrival in Victoria many people helped and encouraged me both personally and politically. Without them I would not be here today. I take this opportunity formally to thank each and every person who worked for me in Isaacs during the election campaign. The knowledge of their friendship, untiring efforts and general support always will be valued by me. 
The electorate of Isaacs is named after  Sir Isaac  Isaacs, who was the first native-born Governor-General of Australia.  His  appointment was made on the recommendation of Prime Minister Scullin in 1931.  Sir Isaac  Isaacs had a distinguished career in politics as a member of the Legislative Assembly of Victoria from 1 892 to 1 90 1 , during which time he was the Attorney-General in both the Patterson and Turner ministries. He was a member of the Federal convention appointed to draft the Commonwealth Constitution and was elected to the House of Representatives in 1901 as the member for the seat of Indi, which is now held by my colleague,  Mr Ewen  Cameron, who will be its member for a long time. The electorate of Isaacs must be one of the most attractive in Australia, having a coastline of some 12 miles from Sandringham to Frankston and containing people from all walks of life. A couple of the better known personalities in Isaacs are Bob Hawke and Don Chipp. As their Federal member I will be pleased to help them out with some beneficial advice should they ever ask for it. 
As a matter of fact, I was so impressed, having them as constituents, that I was moved to dedicate the following poem to them, with apologies to Robbie Burns, of course: 
Down the Bay, in Isaacs 
We 're a varied group of folk, 
Sometimes differing politically- 
Oft times, we share a joke. 
Of all those Liberal supporters 
Who vote as well as talk, 
Can we count among our numbers 
The Messrs Chipp and Hawke? 
It's true- most honoured gentlemen, 
That Don and Bob reside 
In the heart of Isaacs territory- 
The fact cannot be denied. 
Bob and Don, you 've shown good j  judgment 
In living where you do 
And as your elected representative, 
I trust next time, you'll vote Liberal too! 
I would like to comment now on some of the remarks made by members of the Opposition in this debate that have caused me a great deal of dismay. I refer firstly to the claims that the Government, of which I am immensely proud to be a member, secured office by indulging in contemptible misrepresentation at the recent general election. I regard these rambling claims merely as evidence of bareness of thought of those who made them. 
The honourable members making those claims should contemplate the implications of the great national decision that was made on 10 December last. They should ask themselves whether the people's verdict was not right after all and whether they could not learn certain lessons from it. They seem to believe that they themselves are quite incapable of making any wrong decisions. The disparaging remarks about the Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Malcolm Fraser, by certain members in this debate compel me to say that it is one of the proudest privileges I could ever expect to enjoy even to be ranked as a mere back bencher in a government led by the Prime Minister. The confidence in his leadership and his ability were clearly shown by both party and electorate which returned the Government with the second greatest majority in the history of Australia. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you will doubtless know that this place has been variously described by the more vocally colourful members of the public as being many things, not all of them flattering. This brings to mind a topic I would like to draw to the attention of honourable members. I refer to the zoological gardens of Australia. Zoos have indeed progressed from their original inceptionwhich involved a menagerie of animals constrained in pits, chained or enclosed behind heavy iron grids- to the present-day system of presenting them to the public. Zoos are in fact gardens and, more importantly they are part of our education system. Animals are housed in such a way that constraint is frequently not obvious: They are on soil and grass instead of concrete; they have water, rock, herbage and trees in their enclosures; and where possible they are behind moats rather than fences. In any case, iron bars have disappeared. 
Most enlightened zoological garden administrations seek to exhibit their collections in surroundings which resemble the natural habitat; sometimes surroundings are a very real duplication of the natural habitat. Education is dominant. It may be by visual presentation, by graphics or by actual teaching. The latter approach is receiving increasing attention in this country, from the zoo administrations themselves and from the education departments. The major zoological gardens in this country are noncommercial. They receive governmental support in most instances. Sometimes they receive support from municipalities. 
One can list the principal Australian collections very readily: Taronga Park, Sydney; the Adelaide Zoological Gardens; the Royal Melbourne Zoological Gardens, the second best zoo in the world; the Perth Zoological Gardens; the  Sir Colin  Mackenzie Fauna Park at Healesville, Victoria; the Western Plains Zoo at Dubbo, New South Wales; the Werribee Fauna Park, Victoria, which is being developed currently; and a broadacre fauna park which will be developed outside Adelaide. All of these collections need greater financial support than they now receive not only to meet the cost of their operations but also to provide a service to the community while at the same time making relatively low charges for admission. 
Industries and foundations are already assisting but they would do much more if they were given tax protection. Some foundations may make grants only to institutions which themselves have tax protection. It should be possible for industry and foundations to make contributions to zoological gardens for specific education programs such as those which have been established at the Royal Melbourne Zoological Gardens. These programs are directed and run by qualified teachers. When this program was first introduced in 1965 2,600 school children went through the education system. In 1977 there were 68,000 children in Victorian primary schools with 1 8,000 children on the waiting list. 
Research is also part of the education concept. Exhibits should be included also if they are so designed that they present fauna in a natural habitat- real or simulated- in which they are normally found. This is a particularly important education process in itself. Education in zoological gardens should not be merely an elaborate biology course. More importantly it should be so designed to teach people, and particularly youngsters, where and how they fit into the unbelievably complex environment of which they are an integral part. Contributions to support such activities should receive taxation relief. Such a 'concession' should be confined to noncommercial operations such as those I have listed. Maybe there are a few others. I hope that this Government will give this matter serious consideration. 
I was interested to hear in the GovernorGeneral's Speech at the opening of the Thirtyfirst Parliament on 21 February that this Government, which has already given significant support to small business, which employs 2 million people, by way of the investment allowance, trading stock valuation adjustments and other concessions, will now take steps to make access to finance easier by an extension of the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank to enable the Bank to lend to all kinds of businesses, including equity finance for small businesses. The Government will also assist small businesses by extending the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The impending and long overdue abolition of Commonwealth probate and estate duty will not only be of great advantage to the entire nation but also will lift forever from the shoulders of small businessmen, family operations and primary producers an intolerable yoke and burden which has weighed them down for far too many years. 
I now turn to the Yooralla pre-employment training program for physically handicapped and normal children which is unique in Australia. I hope that my Government will assist this organisation with some form of government funding to ease the financial burden. The four major aims of the Yooralla pre-employment program are: First, to provide work experience and information; secondly, to endeavour to equalise the socialisation opportunities for disabled young people with those of their ablebodied peers; thirdly, to increase the independence of disabled people so that as much as possible they may lead a life style independent of financial support systems; and fourthly, education of the public, both generally through the interaction of the able-bodied and disabled people in the program and with employers involved in the unit. 
The problem of gaining employment for most young people is frequently related to their lack of knowledge of the working world and of realistic expectations with regard to their work skills. Many employers require experience and yet students do not have the opportunity to gain this required experience. Information regarding a person's ability to be punctual, to take initiatives, to relate to his work mates and to take pride in his work may be sufficient impetus for an employer to provide a work trial. Whilst these problems apply to most young people, disabled students are more disadvantaged by problems of access and transport which prevent them from gaining an insight into many aspects of the work force. 
The problems specifically related to work experience are compounded further by the limited socialisation experiences of disabled people who are frequently institutionalised in residential care or isolated from the general community when placed in special schools. Because disabled people frequently require assistance- for example, medical facilities, physiotherapy and aids- the problem of leading a life style independent of the support systems is very real. It is felt that the Yooralla pre-employment program offers a positive environment in which independence can be not only encouraged but also shared. The participants undertake tasks together because they like each other rather than because it is the job of the professional to help. 
Able bodied employers in the community frequently are frightened of the unknown. This seems to apply especially to those who have had no previous contact with disabled people. Often they are concerned about issues such as embarrassing the disabled person and the fact that the disabled person may require extra assistance. Yet when employers have been approached personally and have had the disability explained, most have been willing to provide work trials and some have provided full-time employment. The educative role of having both able bodied and disabled young people together is an innovative concept and is proving to be invaluable. It has led to the understanding of issues of vital importance to the disabled person which would not have been possible to the same extent without the continuing contact between the two groups. The result of this interaction is best summed up by a student from the first preemployment program who said: 
The prospect of mixing with some disabled people who I had not mixed with before was a little bit exciting. 
Three months later they were the best of friends. The position of the 11 participants in the program as at 1 March 1978 is as follows: Five are in full-time employment, two have returned to tertiary studies, two are in sheltered workshops, two are working as volunteers with organisations and one is being considered for full-time employment. I ask the Government to give earnest consideration to the questions that I have put before the House today. I hope that during my time in this Parliament I shall be able to give a little back to Australia, a country which has given me so much since I came out from Ireland. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be aware that, as part of its advertising activities, Telecom Australia has supported a number of sporting events, in particular a golf tournament and a tennis championship. Can the Minister say whether that is considered by the Government to be an appropriate advertising involvement for Telecom? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Productivity. In view of world recognition for the  InterScan  airport landing guidance system, will the Minister inform the House whether similar recognition exists for Australia's Nomad aircraft? What is the potential of Nomad, in its various configurations, in the world market and what is the present position in respect of sales? How many countries have bought Nomad so far and what other countries may be interested? What do these two successful projects-  InterScan  and Nomad- mean for Australia in terms of the possible future development of integrated aerospace projects and facilities provided by Australian industry to other countries, especially to our South East Asian neighbours? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister is no doubt aware of the assertions by the Opposition that the Government is lacking a policy on arms control and disarmament matters. Will the Minister inform the House of the initiatives the Australian Government has taken in order to achieve wider international agreement on these matters? 
I am concerned that the Department of Trade and Resources recently purchased filing systems manufactured in United States of America in preference to locally manufactured products. The products are described as panels for microfiche filing. Those purchased were manufactured by Ring King Visibles Incorporated in Muscatine, Iowa, United States of America. Our local product is known to the Department and is manufactured by Arnos Melbourne Pty Ltd, Nepean Highway, Cheltenham. Arnos Melbourne Pty Ltd is a small, privately owned company with 90 employees. The company has been involved with export for over 20 years and its filing systems are sold in 32 countries. Arnos won an export award for its achievement in 1973 and the company's microfiche filing products are currently listed in the American publication 'Information and Records Management, 1978 Storage and Information Retrieval Guidebook'. 
Surely the Overseas Trade Commissioner offices should be a place for Australian manufactured enterprise wherever possible. Now we have a situation where Arnos is currently manufacturing an order worth $350,000 for national distribution to United States of America and the three Trade Department offices in that country are using a competitive United States of America manufactured product purchased in Australia. The founder and Managing Director of Arnos Melbourne Pty Ltd is  Mr Bill  Martin.  Mr Martin  and his company are well known to the Department of Trade and Resources, having participated in more than 40 Australian trade exhibitions around the world. In 1976  Mr Martin  was the Government-appointed leader of exhibitors to the Honolulu Trade Show and later in that year accompanied the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony), Deputy  Prime Minister, to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as leader of exhibitors for the Moscow Trade Show. 
Hardly a month goes by without  Mr Martin  or a representative of his firm being overseas somewhere in the world selling.  His  determination and unyielding efforts to promote Australian manufactured products abroad is an object lesson to many would-be exporters both large and small. Companies such as Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, Nilex and Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd would be proud of the success Arnos has achieved in the export market for it is their raw materials that are being used in the manufacture of Arnos products. I feel that the Australian Trade offices overseas should be an area where potential customers can see Australian manufactured products. Many of the Arnos range of products are unique and would require a demonstration to enhance their suitability in an export market. Arnos Melbourne Pty Ltd exports 70 per cent of its products. I hope that when the Department of Trade and Resources makes purchases of filing systems it will give Australian companies an opportunity to supply that equipment because the policy of the Government is to help Australian industry by providing it with orders for Government purchases. 
Has the Minister for Health seen a report that at least half of all adult Vietnamese arriving in Darwin have traces of tuberculosis, a highly infectious disease which had virtually been arrested in Australia before the influx of the boat people? What are the health screening arrangements for these refugees? 
-Honourable members will be aware that tenders are being called for the concessions at airports for car rental companies. The new arrangements are to operate from mid- 1979. Members will also be aware that each of the main companies concerned have taken different positions as to what will be a viable number of companies to operate these concessions. As a Liberal I believe in the competitive free enterprise system but currently we do not see a competitive system operating at airports. What we see is a monopoly and I am against that. What we need is a system that would generate not only a good financial return to the Commonwealth, but also a good degree of competition as well as serving the needs of the travel industry. To me it would seem that the greatest degree of choice, that is, having the three major companies at each airport, would be the best for the Commonwealth, the consumer and the travel industry. I hope the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will favour this system when he makes his decision. 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, concerns an article in the  Australian Financial Review  which states that the Australian/United States dollar rating has been classified as triple A. What consequences does this have for economic management? 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. On Tuesday evening the Treasurer, when presenting the Budget, outlined the adjustments which would be made to the age pension. Is it proposed that a means test will be applied to senior citizens who turn 70 years of age on or after 1 November next and that many of these citizens will not be eligible for any age pension? Will the Treasurer please explain to the House the precise position in which these citizens will be placed? 
I rise tonight to seek Federal Government support for the Victorian State Government in its bid through the Australian Olympic Federation to the International Olympic Council for the 1988 Olympic Games. Lord Killanin has indicated on several occasions that he is aware that the city of Melbourne is considering an application for the 1988 Olympics. He visited Melbourne in November of last year. We all know that Melbourne is the premier city of Australia and the only city that can run the Olympic Games. We proved it in 1956 and we will prove it again in 1988. The city of Melbourne has previously held a successful Olympic Games and a willingness is demonstrated by sport, business, professional, government and media personnel to support the holding of a further Olympic Games in Melbourne. I have already taken up this matter with the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who is right behind the move to get the Olympic Games for Australia in our bicentennial year of 1 988. 
I believe the benefits to Australia would be great and would create casual, part time and full time employment for some 23,000 persons. An Olympic village would be built and after the Games it could be turned into an elderly citizens ' village. I believe the Patterson River in my electorate would be ideal for the Olympic rowing events. I have spoken already to the Chelsea City Council on this matter and it has indicated to me that it is prepared to spend money to bring it up to Olympic standard. The staging of the Olympic Games in Melbourne would cost approximately S600m. If it were to be held in Sydney it would cost over $2 billion, as was indicated by the Games held in Montreal. I therefore ask honourable gentlement to support me in my approach to the Federal Government to ensure that we in Australia get the Olympic Games in our bicentennial year of 1988. It would be one of the great tourist attractions of that great international year that we are going to have in Australia. I hope that the Federal Government will support the Victorian Government in its efforts to hold the Olympic Games in Melbourne in 1988. 
-Has the Minister for Transport received a letter from Budget Rent-a-Car claiming the proposed terms of tender for airport car rentals are constructed in such a way that only Avis can win the national position? If this is so, will he consider changing the terms of contract so that all national operators can have an opportunity to compete? 
-I am delighted in my first year as a member of this Parliament to have this opportunity to speak to the Budget Estimates. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to an item in the  Medical Letter  of 2 1 September under the headline 'Federal Health Department now Favouring Sessional Payments'? The article states: 
Federal health officers in negotiations with their State counterparts are reportedly favouring sessional payments for remunerating doctors for services to hospitals. This is a turn about because  Mr Hunt  has previously supported modified fee-for-service arrangements - 
I am delighted to have the opportunity of speaking to the estimates for health and welfare. At the outset I congratulate the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  for introducing what I believe is the best health scheme ever introduced in the Federal Parliament. I think that the majority of Australians would agree with me when I say that the scheme which will operate from 1 November is no doubt the best that has ever been introduced in this national Parliament. The changes to Medibank to be introduced on 1 November will affect various groups in the community in the following way: For the 60 per cent of the population who are currently insured with private health funds for both medical and hospital benefits there will be little change although their medical insurance payments should be lower from 1 November. Individuals can of course elect to take the new Commonwealth medical benefit and standard hospital care if they choose to do so. For a pensioner with a pensioner's health benefit card who has dependents there will be no change in respect of the present levels of medical and hospital coverage. Pensioners and others who currently have hospital only insurance will be required to pay extra if they wish to continue coverage for shared hospital ward accommodation and retain a doctor of their choice. 
There is one point on which I would like to congratulate the Government. That is in relation to the dropping of the imposition of the means test on family allowances and of the income taxing of invalid and Service pensions and rehabilitation and sheltered employment allowances. I ask the Government to correct one error that it made in the Budget- the dropping of the once a year pension adjustment- and to adhere to its policy pledge of writing twice yearly pension adjustments into the legislation. I also ask the Government to drop the imposition of a freeze on the 'free of means test' applying to people 70 years of age and over. 
One of the major problems which has faced Western governments in recent times has been the rate of increase in the costs of providing health care. Since governments finance a large proportion of health services, they have a responsibility to achieve the best value possible for money spent. I seek leave to have a table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197809284_62_7.jpg"></graphic>

Hospitals are by far the most costly component of health care. Total Commonwealth outlay on hospitals represents almost 60 per cent of all Commonwealth expenditure on health services. Over the last few years, however, 
Commonwealth Government policies have reduced the annual rate of increase of expenditure on recognised hospitals from 37 per cent in 1974-75 to 15 per cent in 1977-78. 1 seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table setting out the total recognised hospitals expenditure over the last five years. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197809284_63_8.jpg"></graphic>

-Between 1963-64 and 1975-76, the average cost per occupied bed day increased, in money terms, by almost 600 per cent. Average weekly earnings over the same period increased by only 329 per cent. Faced with increases of this magnitude, the Government, in consultation with the States and other appropriate bodies, is aiming to develop new arrangements that will reduce the number of public and private hospital beds available to no more than is essential for good care; require long-stay patients in recognised hospitals to contribute towards their accommodation and service as a condition of hospital cost-sharing; classify different types of hospitals in order to set varying levels of charges according to type; require hospitals to satisfy prescribed standards of management, accommodation and service as a condition of cost-sharing, one of the standards being a commitment to an approved program of rationalisation of facilities and services; and introduce some form of direct patient contributions to hospital costs, for example, through a system of utilisation review, whereby patients would be required to pay for unauthorised stays in hospitals. 
By international standards Australia has a high number of hospital beds per 1,000 of population, having a figure higher than most European countries, the United States, of America and Canada. Although it is necessary to have some excess bed capacity in hospitals, the bed occupancy rate for Australian hospitals as a whole is about 70 per cent, with approximately 50 per cent of recognised hospitals having average occupancy levels of 60 per cent or lower. This is a clear indication of a surplus of beds. Overseas studies have indicated that the rate of utilisation of hospital beds is related directly to the number of beds available. Further, evidence in Australia suggests a strong link between bed availability and occupancy rates, and operating costs of recognised hospitals. 
After being virtually unchanged for the ten preceding years, the number of occupied bed days per 1,000 of population- in public and private hospitals- between 1970 and 1976 increased from 1,556 to 1,626. The number of admissions per 1,000 of population increased from 1972 to 190 over the same period. The gross operating cost per occupied bed was almost $120 per day for 1976-77, about $135 per day for 1977-78 and could approach $150 per day in 1978-79. Thus substantial reductions in total operating costs of hospitals can be achieved by the implementation of a program of reducing the number of available beds as well as occupied bed days. Savings achieved from reductions in hospital utilisation could permit resources to be channelled into less expensive alternatives to institutional care, such as domiciliary care and other community based facilities. 
A study in the United Kingdom indicated that the available number of acute hospital beds could be reduced to 2 per 1,000 population with no detrimental effect on the quality of care, provided the less expensive community health services were available. Australia currently has 6.5 beds per 1,000 population, with marked differences between States. This is illustrated in a table which I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197809284_64_9.jpg"></graphic>

In any rationalisation program designed to influence the utilisation of hospitals it is necessary to compare similar hospitals between and within States in order to derive standards for acceptable levels of utilisation. However, any reduction in hospital utilisation must take account of the private hospital sector, which must be fully incorporated in any effective rationalisation program. The private hospital sector is aware of the Government's intentions in this matter. 
Officers of the Department of Health and the Department of Construction are working in conjunction with State authorities and private industry to develop a planning and information system which will rationalise the planning process and lead to greater efficiency and cost savings in the provision of hospital facilities. The growth of sophisticated technological services has contributed to the rising costs of health care. In the United States, it has been estimated that 50 per cent of the increase in costs of hospital care from 1965 to 1974 was directly or indirectly related to medical technology. The Minister for Health at present is considering the report of the Committee on Applications and Costs of Modern Technology in Medical Practice. The Committee was set up to advise on methods of regulating the supply, costs and utilisation of technological services. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. On what grounds can a public authority such as Trans-Australia Airlines use taxpayers' money to acquire a company such as Kay-Hertz Rent-A-Car Pty Ltd that has a significant deficit of shareholders' funds and a record of unprofitable trading? Why will TAA not announce the amount of money spent on acquiring this subsidiary? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House supports the application of the City of Melbourne to the International Olympic Federation for the 1988 Olympic Games to be held in that city. 
-Honourable members will recall that I recently asked a question of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  regarding the takeover by Trans-Australia Airlines of Hertz Rent-A-Car Pty Ltd. They will also recall that I received what must be considered to be an unsatisfactory reply. It completely evaded the issue of why a government body was taking over a company which had a poor performance record, why it was encouraging the extension into the car rental market of the anti-competitive two-airline policy and why it was investing in rather than divesting itself of companies and commissions which I suggested in this House should return to private enterprise. With TransAustralia Airlines' acquisition of Hertz last week the Australian car rental industry has completed a period of polarisation quite unique in the world. I know of no other Western democracy with even a semblance of anti-trust legislation that would permit airlines to own car rental companies. 
You haven't got a brain in your head. In Australia today our 2 major airlines who operate within a regulated non-price competitive industry have transferred some of their massive profits into a related industry to which they have bought collectively 62 per cent of the market share. That is bad enough but as almost 50 per cent of the car rental revenue is generated from air passengers, the airlines are in fact influencing a captive market to use their subsidiary companies. This seems to me to be a classical example of why it becomes necessary in Western democracies to legislate restrictive trade laws. That giant organisations like Ansett Airlines of Australia and TAA can buy a market share in a related industry from profits earned in a protective environment would appear to contravene the very principles of the Liberal Party philosophy. It is anti-competitive and could well have a devastating effect on the infrastructure of the car rental industry in this country. At the very least every effort must be made to ensure that the forthcoming car rental airport franchise allows a minimum of 3 operators. Otherwise subsidiary companies of TAA and Ansett will merely pay lip service to competition, a role familiar to both airlines. 
In respect to government authority, or as explained by the Minister, a subsidiary of a government authority expanding its operation into private industry, all supporters of the Liberal Party's philosophy ought to be concerned, particularly in this instance. It is a blatant example of a public authority using taxpayers' money to acquire a very unprofitable and unsuccessful subsidiary. How can it be justified? The court hearing that subsequently followed Ansett 's announced intention of buying Avis highlighted the extremely low profile taken by Hertz who on every count were unco-operative with the Trade Practices Commission. The same can be said for TAA who elected not to give evidence. So I have concluded that it was a foregone conclusion that the day Ansett decided to get into the car rental business TAA would follow with Hertz. Philosophically it seems wrong that airlines operating in a regulated protected environment can expand their activities into allied industries where private companies are already providing efficient services. 
I now draw honourable members' attention to an article which appeared in the  Australia  on Tuesday 7 November entitled 'Tourism and the Chookyard Philosophy', relating the experiences of a  Mr Jim  Kennedy of Queensland, a person not unknown to some people in this House I believe, in the operation of his tourist resort of South Molle Island in the Whitsunday group. He is an independent operator in the tourist business, but unfortunately two airlines are in the island owning business too. It will not take much imagination to understand what is happening to him. He is seriously disadvantaged. He says, and I quote the article: 
Here I am with no rights to run an airline and with no subsidies, competing with the Government to run a resort'. 
He goes on: 
The airlines should be doing what they were set up to do instead of spending a fortune trying to set up tourist resorts '. 
I go further and say they should be doing what they are set up to do instead of spending a fortune buying up car rental companies.  Mr Kennedy  said their expertise lies in running airlines not resorts, yet while they spend a fortune setting up resorts TAA is talking of cutting out unprofitable airline routes. It is like Australia Post saying it cannot make money out of the Mount Isa Post Office and shutting it down. I believe  Mr Kennedy  has said it all. For goodness sake, let the Government encourage private enterprise. Let us encourage competition and let our leaders remember the Liberal Party philosophy and indeed its platform of supporting free enterprise. I ask all honourable member to join me in helping to rectify this situation- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
It is a fact that Professor Don Aitkin of Macquarie University, Sydney, has been awarded $75,000 for a study of Australian political behaviour, by the Australian Grants Committee. 
What were the precise criteria used by the Committee in awarding this grant. 
How many grants have been made by the Committee of sums of $20,000, for research in the social sciences, and to whom have they been awarded. 
How many full-time and part-time teachers and research workers are employed in Professor Aitkin's Department 
How many post-graduate students were enrolled with that Department in 1978. 
In what ways does the Parliament exercise scrutiny over the expenditure of the Committee. 
What is the total estimated expenditure by the Federal Government on Macquarie University during 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
Does the recent $75,000 award by the Australian Research Grants Committee to Professor Aitkin of Macquarie University for a study of Australian Political Behaviour comply with the Government's strategy of budgetary restraint. If so would he give a detailed explanation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In the light of recent overseas reports that the herbicides 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T may be responsible for birth abnormalities, has the Minister decided on any action in regard to the use of these herbicides in Australia? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that TAA (a) is no longer inviting in-flight bookings for Avis but is specifying Hertz, the company it has recently taken over and (b) has removed all Avis promotional material from its terminal buildings and other facilities. 
Is it also a fact that the Avis airport contract does not expire until 30 June 1 979, and that every Avis car rented on airports represents a financial contribution to consolidated revenue. 
Will he take any action in the matter. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House condemns the black-mailing statements of the Secretary, Builders Labourers Federation, Norm Gallagher, who has publicly stated that the Builders Labourers Federation has black-banned work of various shopping complexes in Victoria unless contractors agree to pay all workers on the site $2 1 per week over the award. 
It is the opinion of the House that the Government should appoint a Royal Commission to investigate the activities of the Builders Labourers Federation. 
-Will the Prime Minister tell the House what the Government's attitude is towards the signing of the Middle East peace treaty in Washington yesterday? 
I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs a question which relates to the amendments to the Prices Justification Act which were recently adopted by this House. Will the Minister indicate whether it is intended that oil industry pricing will continue to be monitored by the Prices Justification Tribunal? If so, can he say that precise arrangements have been or will be made in this regard? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I thank the Opposition Whip for providing me with an audience. In recent years the building and construction industry has had a chequered industrial relations history. At the centre of much of this trouble has been the Australian Builders Labourers Federation. A few years ago this union demonstrated its irresponsibility and its real aims to such an extent that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided to deregister the Builders Labourers Federation. This was the time of the green bans and massive work interruptions and upheavals in New South Wales. At this time, violence was involved for the first time and the tactic of interrupting concrete pours, maliciously damaging buildings in the course of construction, was first used. 
Operating patterns of the building and construction industry have changed in recent years. With the growth in size of projects, the advent of the developer and the emergence of so many time-critical projects, have come changes in union tactics. No one can criticise a union for pursuing the legitimate aims of its members through established channels. No one can say that there should never be strikes. But it is clear that this union has decided that the best way to operate is on the basis of, as Norm Gallagher puts is, 'the most harm to the boss, the least harm to us'. During recent times there has been ample evidence of that tactic; for example, the imposition of costly work bans and refusal to finish concrete pours, causing thousands of dollars to be paid in rectification costs. Work bans drastically reduce productivity. In one case recently they reduced productivity to about 45 per cent. The recent recipients of this treatment usually have been one or two major contractors and the aim has been to force concessions which will then flow across the total industry. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move; 
That in the opinion of this House, sub-sections 4 and 4a of section 116 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 should be repealed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Is the report in today's Press correct that  Mr Fred  Daly, a Minister in the Whitlam Government and a recently retired member of this House, has applied for the position of Principal Private Secretary to the Minister? Would  Mr Daly  have to resign from the five positions he now holds if his application were successful? 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House commends the Carlton United Brewery for its introduction of a low alcohol content light ale, and, in the belief that such a product could be beneficial in helping lower the road toll and also in raising the level of community health, this House recommends that the excise tax for lower alcohol beer be reduced in order to make it less expensive and thus more acceptable to the beer drinking community. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for Franklin. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May1979: 
How many light aircraft accidents have occurred in the period 1 January to 30 April1979 in (a) Victoria, (b) New South Wales, (c) Queensland, (d) Western Australia, (e) South Australia, (f) Tasmania and (g) the Northern Territory and how many deaths have resulted from these accidents. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that: 
the Government should forthwith establish an independent inquiry into government enterprises in which the Commonwealth Government has been called upon, for a variety of reasons, to invest taxpayers' funds in enterprises which could be conducted by private enterprises, and 
the inquiry should investigate the Ranger Uranium project, Mary Kathleen Uranium, the Australian Industries Development Corporation, Qantas, TAA, the Pipeline Authority, ANL and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
This motion will be seconded by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon). 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to recent claims that the insecticide Toxaphene has been linked with cancer. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a report from the United States National Cancer Institute which states that its tests on Toxaphene cause liver and thyroid cancer in animals and that compounds found to cause cancer in test animals are generally considered capable of causing cancer in humans. 
Is this insecticide used exclusively on cotton crops in Australia. 
Is he able to state whether Toxaphene is the largest selling and oldest product of its kind on the world market. 
5 ) Which companies market Toxaphene in Australia. 
Is the National Health and Medical Research Council making any investigations into the side effects of this insecticide. 
-Is the Minister for Industrial Relations aware that the cigarette manufacturer, Philip Morris (Australia) Ltd, is reported to be negotiating with the Federated Tobacco Workers Union concerning the introduction of a shorter working week? If that is correct, what is the Government's view on this matter? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the allegations made in the Senate on Thursday, 31 May 1979, by  Senator Cavanagh  in relation to the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns),  the Parliamentary 
Housekeeper and the Secretary of the Joint House Department, be referred to the Committee of Privileges for investigation and report as to the accuracy of those allegations. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon). 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) How many persons in the Electoral Division of Isaacs have been charged by the police with the theft of pension cheques during the period1 April 1 978 to 30 April 1979. 
2 ) How many of these persons were convicted, what were the penalties and how many cases are still under investigation. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  It concerns the question raised in the Senate yesterday by  Senator O  'Byrne as an extension of a matter which  Senator Cavanagh  raised last Thursday night in which, he suggested that a member of the House of Representatives was summoned to your office regarding a barbeque set which was missing from the Senate court-yard. Have you at any time had occasion to call an honourable member to your office regarding such a matter? 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on  22  May  1979: 
How much did maternity leave allowance cost (a) the Public Service and (b) Commonwealth statutory bodies during (i) 1972-73, (ii) 1973-74, (iii) 1974-75, (iv) 1975-76, (v) 1976-77, (vi) 1977-78 and (vii) the period 1 July 1978 to 30 April 1979. 
-I ask the Treasurer Is the Government prepared to implement the policies on tax indexation advocated by the Leader of the Opposition? 
I seek the indulgence of this House to bring before it a matter of importance which I consider to be in the interests of the housewives of Victoria. Whilst I find Canberra to be a beautiful and gracious city with all of the amenities and facilities that befit the national capital, subsidised in the main by all Australian taxpayers, I draw the line when the housewives of Victoria have to face the added burden of subsidising the fat cats of Canberra on the food front. I draw the attention of the House to the incredible rip-off which is occurring on the home front- I should say the egg front. 
The Victorian Egg Board is selling eggs in Canberra supermarkets at the following prices: 
In Canberra the Victorian Egg Board is selling its 65 gram eggs at the wholesale price of $1.12 a dozen as against $1.25 in its home State of Victoria. Woolworths Pty Ltd is selling 65 gram eggs in Canberra at the retail price of $1.21 a dozen. Housewives in Victoria are being ripped off by having to pay for the same size egg $1.39 a dozen. The Victorian Egg Board is selling 60 gram eggs in Canberra at the wholesale price of $1.07 a dozen against the wholesale price to the migrants in Victoria of $1.17 a dozen. The retail price of 60 gram eggs in Canberra is $1.16 a dozen as against $1.25 a dozen in Victoria. The wholesale price of 55 gram eggs in Canberra is 89 cents a dozen as against $ 1.05 a dozen in Melbourne. Woolworths Pty Ltd in Canberra sells 55 gram eggs at the retail price of 98 cents whereas in Melbourne they are sold for $1.17 a dozen. If we go right down the list we find the same price structure. 
The price of eggs in Victorian supermarkets is at least 20 cents a dozen dearer than in Canberra. The retail egg price in Canberra is so good, I have been advised, that several large egg dealers are now buying their eggs by the truckload in Canberra and transporting them back to Victoria and still coming out ahead of the wholesale price in that State. 
The honourable member for Lilley would not know what it is all about, because we in Victoria are also subsidising Queensland eggs. I am sympathetic with the large poultry concerns in the Australian Capital Territory and with the Victorian Egg Board. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  who is trying to interject, might like the housewives in Victoria to pay 20 cents a dozen more for eggs, but I as a Victorian object. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-The Opposition may be in favour of the Victorian housewives paying 20 cents a dozen more for eggs, but I as a Victorian am not. The members of the Labor Party who are attempting to interject are in favour of the Victorian housewives paying more for eggs. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Isaacs will resume his seat. The remark made by the honourable member for Parramatta is not altogether helpful. The honourable member for Isaacs is addressing the House on a serious subject. I ask honourable members to cease their cackling. 
All I can say is thank goodness that the River Murray keeps all the vice in New South Wales out of Victoria. If that is what New South Wales has produced, I am proud to be a Victorian. I do not know whether the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  is in favour of fat cats in Canberra subsidising - 
-Thank you. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports agrees with me. I feel that the Victorian housewives are being ripped off. All attempts should be made by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  to ensure that the Victorian housewife gets a fair deal. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to his announcement in the House on 12 September of the Government's decision to provide 3,500 tonnes of rice for humanitarian relief in Kampuchea and reports in the Press that political obstacles are preventing the distribution of food and medical supplies to those threatened by disease and famine in that country. Can the Minister assure the House that no political strings are attached to Australia's humanitarian aid to Kampuchea? Will he provide assurances that every possible effort is being made to distribute Australia's aid to the people of Kampuchea as quickly as possible? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) Did the Annual Report of his Department for 1977-78 state that the report on design and construction standards for urban residential streets requested in 1974 had been completed and would be published shortly. 
If so, has the report been published by the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
Will he take immediate steps to ensure that this report is released to the public as local government authorities, who are vitally interested in the report, are anxious to examine the findings and act on its recommendations. 
Has the Minister for Health seen reports in last month's  Medical Journal of Australia  indicating that imported herbal teas and ginseng are poisonous and detrimental to health? What action is being taken to control their importation? 
I am pleased tonight to speak in the debate on the Social Services Amendment Bill. In doing so I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for the wonderful job that she has been doing in that position. In the four Budgets introduced by the Fraser Government it has significantly re-ordered priorities in the area of income, security and welfare. We have increased assistance to aged persons, the handicapped, lone parents and low income groups. Commonwealth support for welfare services now places greater emphasis on need. The Department of Social Security is being re-organised to ensure it is both more responsive to the needs of those dependent on its services and more responsible in the handling of community resources. Decentralisation of the Department's offices, increased publicity of rights and entitlements and changes in appeal procedures have meant improved services to the public. We have taken positive steps to minimise fraud and abuse. The Government has started to develop through the federalism policy a process by which more control can be exercised by the States and local communities over their own welfare priorities. 
As was pointed out in the recent interim statement of the Department, the overriding objective of the Government is to build up a department which is both efficient and compassionate, with a recognition that these two values, far from being in conflict, are the twin pillars around which a truly effective welfare operation must be designed. I congratulate the Government once again for re-introducing the automatic indexation of pensions. I believe that in doing so many honourable members on this side of the House who helped to bring about the re-introduction of the automatic indexation of pensions, such as the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  should be congratulated. I congratulate him on the magnificent work that he did in relation to this particular matter. 
-That is all right. The honourable member for Franklin does not need to be thanked because we know what a great job he did. Much has been said by the Opposition about what it did as far as pensions are concerned. I would like to bring a few points to the attention of the House. I would like honourable members to know who introduced age and invalid pensions. The Deakin Government introduced them in 1908. When were payments made to hospitals for pensioners? They were introduced in 1 9 1 8 by the Hughes nationalist Government. Who first introduced automatic pension increases? It was the Menzies Liberal-Country Party Government in 1940. Who introduced the pensioner health benefit services? The Menzies Liberal-National Country Party Government did so in 1951. In 1968 who gave the widow or widower of a pensioner extended pension rates? It was the Gorton Liberal-National Country Party Government. It provided that the surviving spouse would receive up to 12 weeks' payment equivalent to the married rate of pension. What happened to the wife's allowance in 1972? The McMahon Liberal-National Country Party Government extended the allowance so that where the male partner was over 65 years of age but the wife under 60, she received the rate of pension payable had she been over 60. Who introduced the pensioner health benefit services? It was the Menzies Liberal-National Country Party Government. Who made pensions taxable? The Whitlam Labor Government did that in 1 975. 
-The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  Who introduced the domiciliary care benefit? It was the McMahon Liberal-National Country Party Government in 1972. What happened in 1976? The Fraser Liberal-National Country Party Government introduced automatic increases of pensions according to the consumer price index. So honourable members can see that the Liberal Party has done more for the pensioners than the Labor Party ever did. The only thing that the Labor Party did was in 1975 when the present Leader of the Opposition made pensions taxable. 
Once again I thank the Minister for providing an aged hostel in my electorate. Only this week the Minister for Social Security announced a grant of over $310,000 under the Aged Persons Homes Act to Southern Cross Homes Inc., to assist with the cost of purchasing land and constructing 22 self-contained units, known as Kavanagh Court, at 496 Main Street, Mordialloc, Victoria. That is right in the heart of my electorate. The accommodation will be provided on two levels, with 18 units at ground floor level and four units on the first floor. Each unit is compact and comfortable and includes a kitchenliving area, separate bedroom and laundrybathroom. Southern Cross Homes is also providing a community room at Kavanagh Court out of its own funds. 
I know they will because while we are in government we will ensure that they are well looked after. The Labor Party has made much play of what it did for the aged. But let us have a look at the promises that the Labor Party has broken. In his election speech in 1972  Mr Whitlam  promised to abolish the means test within three years. The Australian Labor Party has now dropped abolition of the means test from its platform. In the Senate  Senator Grimes  said: 
I was one of those who was responsible for having it removed. 

 - Senator Grimes, the shadow Minister for Social Security.  Mr Whitlam  also promised in 1972 that pensions would be lifted to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. This did not occur. In fact pension rates as a percentage of average weekly earnings have reached record levels under this Government. They reached a peak of 23 per cent under the Australian Labor Party and they have reached a peak of 24 per cent under the Fraser Government. What has the Australian Labor Party done regarding the means test on pensions? At the Adelaide conference the Australian Labor Party dropped its commitment to abolish the income test. The Australian Labor Party spokesman on social security matters,  Senator Grimes,  said: 
 I was one of those who was responsible for having it - 
That is, the abolition of the means test- removed. 
That is, removed from the Labor Party platform. That statement is recorded in the Senate  Hansard of  1 8 October 1 978 at page 1406. 
I am only too delighted to give a copy to the honourable member for Franklin because he can use it in Tasmania.  Senator Grimes  continued: 
I have never made any bones about my attitude in this place to means tests. I made my views known as a supporter of the Labor Government and now as a supporter of the Opposition. I happen to believe that the introduction of a means test pension for those people over 70 years of ageand this was not the intention- is not a bad or costly proposition. 
This is recorded in the Senate  Hansard  of 19 October 1978 at page 1471. I turn now to the question of the placing of a means test on family allowances. The ALP has constantly criticised the Liberal-National Country Party's family allowance scheme. It does not accept that this scheme should be universal. The ALP platform speaks of 'reviewing family allowance programs in order to direct resources to low income families '. I refer to two quotes from a paper by  Senator Grimes,  the ALP spokesman on social security. He stated: 
The high cost of increasing payments to 4.3 million children per year has an inhibiting effect on any desire by the present government to increase payments. It must be said that this may also apply to a Labor Government in times of economic difficulty. 
If it was considered desirable not to add to government spending, a reduction in the Family Allowances could pay for the increased supplement paid to lower income groups, e.g., a reduction of $4 per month per child would have resulted in approximately $200m in 1978. 
They are the words of the shadow Minister for Social Security,  Senator Grimes. Dr Scotton,  formerly the  Chairman  of the Health Insurance Commission established by the Whitlam Government, has written: 
The unprecedentedly high rate of unemployment was the most tragic legacy of the Labor government's term, and the fact that its policies contributed to it, is the most damaging criticism of them. 
He stated further:  . . while the rate at which public expenditures were expanded in 1973 and 1974 added fuel to imported and inherited inflationary pressures, the government's insouciance about violent changes in real wages, relativities and conditions in this period made a major contribution to the intensity of the subsequent unemployment and the difficulty of reducing it. 
He also stated: 
. there can be no doubt that two central policies of the Labor government- the expansion of public social expenditures and the encouragement of substantial wage and salary increases- contributed to the intensity of both problems (inflation and unemployment) and the difficulties of the subsequent readjustment. 
Professor Henderson, of the poverty inquiry, stated: 
Many of the commendable social reforms were introduced (by the Labor Government) at the price of aggravating the plunge into unemployment which has become Australia's worst social and economic problem. 
They are the words of men whom every one of us in this House has heard quoted time and time again. Once again I congratulate the Government on the increased funds for aged persons' accommodation. Over 500 new self-contained hostel and nursing home projects providing some 15,000 beds were approved under the program of accommodation for aged and disabled persons for the three-year period 1976 to 1979. A further $62.5m has been allocated in 1979 to complete outstanding projects approved for this period. Approval has been given for commitments of up to $10m for urgent new projects to enable planning to commence for funding in 1980-81. Maximum subsidy limits under the program were increased by approximately 8 per cent from 1 April 1979. Grants to the States to assist in the provision of rental housing accommodation for pensioners were more than doubled in the 1979-80 Budget, rising from $ 14m to $30m. As at 30 June 1 979 over 650 hostel premises were approved for personal care subsidy for 16,900 aged people who need and receive special attention or who are 80 years and above. This subsidy will amount to $ 14.1m in 1979-80-an increase of $750,000 over the amount provided in 1978-79. 
Since 1976 the Government has assisted over 170 senior citizens centre projects. The provisions range from those for large capital approvals to build new centres to those for minor items of equipment for existing centres. Overall, the Fraser Government will have spent an estimated $ 15m on senior citizens centres by the end of the 1979-80 financial year. The Commonwealth has increased its allocation for subsidies for welfare officer salaries, housekeeping, home repairs, gardening, laundry and other home care services under the States Grants (Home Care) Act by some $4m or 60 per cent compared with the expenditure in 1975-76. The total subsidies paid for meals-on-wheels have increased by 39 per cent over the last four years to an estimated $2.5m in 1979-80. 
What are the facts on pensions? Over 1,300,000 people are currently receiving age pensions- representing almost 80 per cent of people of age pension age. Assistance to the aged- pensions, accommodation, mealsonwheels, et cetera- has increased from $2.2 billion in 1975-76 to $3.6 billion in 1979-80, a rise of 63 per cent in four years. It is worth noting that since the mid-1960s the level of pensions and benefits has increased signficantly faster than prices. Most social security and benefit payments have reached record levels relative to average weekly earnings under the Fraser Government. The standard rate of pension has increased from $14 a week in December 1968 to $53.20 at December 1978- an increase of 280 per cent. As a percentage of average weekly earnings the pension during this period has risen from 20 per cent to 24 per cent. 
The married rate of unemployment benefit has also increased substantially. A married man with two children would have received, including family allowance, some 50.5 per cent of average weekly earnings while unemployed compared with 48.4 per cent at the end of the term of the Labor Government. The Government has not been able to index unemployment benefit for those without dependents. Nevertheless, the rate of unemployment benefit for single adults without dependents has increased from $8.25 a week in 1968 to $53.65 a week- an increase of over 520 per cent. As a proportion of average weekly earnings the single unemployment benefit increased from over 12 per cent to over 23 per cent. 
I am pleased that I have had the opportunity of taking part in this debate. Before I close I thank the Government and congratulate it for the assistance given to the handicapped. This is something that is very close to my heart. Since coming to office this Government has increased assistance to handicapped persons from $62m in 1975-76 to $ 101m in the latest Budget-a rise of 63 per cent. These figures include funds for sheltered employment allowance and facilities, handicapped children's benefit and allowances, rehabilitation services and sums provided for handicapped persons facilities. Additional sums are of course provided for invalid pensions, which provide assistance to many severely handicapped. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table on assistance to the handicapped. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910184_87_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The Government has increased and extended eligibility for the handicapped child's allowance, expanded the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service and widened the eligibility for acceptance for the free-of-charge programs. There have also been increased numbers in receipt of invalid pensions. This year the Government has introduced twiceyearly indexation of pensions for the handicapped. Earlier this year the Government announced a commitment of up to $ lm to establish a Child Accident Prevention Foundation. The Government in 1976 announced a $12 lm program under the Handicapped Persons Welfare Scheme. Reflecting this commitment, in this financial year 1979-80 the Government has budgeted $39.3m to complete outstanding projects and for recurrent funding. Funds will also be made available from within this amount for some new high priority projects. Announcements will be made in the near future. Further projects will be approved this year so that planning can commence to enable funding in 1980-8 1. 
This program of assistance for handicapped persons' facilities will continue to be supported by this Government. Total funding for the program in 1980-8 1 will be announced at a later date. The lower spending on handicapped persons' facilities in 1979-80 reflects the completion of the new projects which were approved in 1976. Capital spending on the program will fall as most of the new projects are completed. Current funding, of course, will continue to rise as new projects come on stream. 
This Government has given top priority to social security and the Fraser Government is to be complimented for the large percentage of the Budget expenditure which it commits to social security. The expenditure on social security programs administered this year will rise about 9.5 per cent from $7.1 billion in 1978-79 to $7.8 billion in 1979-80. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that a group called the Ansett Seekers has arranged on 10 November to take 92 children from the St Vincent de Paul home in Black Rock, which is in my electorate, on their first flight over Port Phillip Bay? As the hostesses and pilots are donating their time, the Mobil and Shell oil companies are picking up the fuel bill and, of course,  Sir Reginald  Ansett is providing a multimillion dollar DC9 aircraft for the trip - 
-Legend has it that Robin Hood robbed the rich to help the poor but in this day and age it seems that the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group is operating in reverse, that is, robbing the poor to help the rich. An elderly constituent of mine who opened and operated an account with the old ES &amp; A Bank many years ago and carried on with the ANZ Bank after it took over the ES &amp; A Bank came to me in some consternation when she discovered that she was charged $1.25 for cashing a $10 cheque. It seems that she approached a city branch of the ANZ Bank to cash the cheque and was advised that there would be $ &lt; fee for cashing the cheque plus an additional 25c for a telephone call to certify her account at a local branch. It is bad enough to charge her a $ 1 fee but when it comes to making money by charging an old age pensioner 25c for a phone call I believe it is going a little too far, and I think that all honourable members would agree with me. 
I thank the honourable member for La Trobe. I will come to that in a minute. I could not believe that what I was told was true, as I also bank with the ANZ. I decided to check it out myself. I went into a surburban branch of the Bank, presented a cheque for $10 and was promptly informed there would be a $ 1 charge plus the telephone charge - 
Exactly. It is a rip-off, as the honourable member for St George says. Little wonder that the ANZ Banking Group is making such great profits. For example, for the year ended 30 September 1977 the net profit after tax was $43,916,000. For the year ended 30 September 1978 it was $62,01 1,000 and for the six months to 3 1 March 1979 it was $46,405,000. 
That is correct. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the charges and interest paid by customers of the ANZ Bank compared with customers of the Bank of New South Wales. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197911153_92_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I believe that the Campbell committee of inquiry should seriously investigate these exorbitant charges by the ANZ Bank. I think they are scandalous and outrageous. I believe that the ANZ Bank has a charge to answer. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
Will he table (a) details of the specified percentages tendered by each operator in relation to the recent airport car rental contracts and (b) a detailed schedule of the Government airport gross revenues declared by each concessionaire for the period 1 July to 30 September 1979. 
