First of all, I must thank the honourable member for that slight bit of promotion which he gave me in the early part of his question. 
Yes. Fortunately, in Australia we do have what is, relative to the rest of the world, a very low structure of interest rates. Fortunately also, so far in this respect we have been able to sever our economy very largely from overseas influences. The honourable member might be interested to know, incidentally, that on our current reserves of foreign exchange Australia earns somewhat over 8%. The general structure of interest rates is, of course, a by-product of the forces at work in the economy. By issuing sufficient quantities of money it is always possible to keep interest rates low. Looking back to the early post-war years, one can see that disastrous damage was done to the Australian economy - this persisted for many years - by the policy of the Australian Labor Party at that time of forcing long term interest rates down to 34%. 
The right honourable member for Melbourne has made the curious remark that he won the war. I recollect that at the time certain Prime Ministers of his own persuasion had in him a mighty weight to carry on their backs in order to pursue the war. An interest rate like that could of course be attained again by using the printing, press. I do not think that the Australian Labor Party has enunciated that in so many words, but that is the implication of its policy in regard not only to interest rates but also in other directions. At the present time we live in an inflationary era. Inflation is worse overseas than it is here. While the tremendous demand for investment funds persists and while the pressures on wages and incomes are still there it will be extremely difficult to control interest rates. In other words, they are a by-product of the operations of the economy, and any government which devotes its whole economic policy towards fixing interest rates at a certain level will get the economy into a great deal of trouble. 
1 deduce from the latter part of the question of the Leader of the Opposition that what he is asking is right in the centre of State jurisdiction. I have, of course, thought about this matter and followed it closely and with great interest but it covers matters which are within the sovereign powers of the States and there is every reason to suppose that the States themselves are taking effective action in this regard. I might add that questions on this subject should be addressed to the AttorneyGeneral. 
Interest rates are much higher in Europe and North America than they are in Australia due to a complex of factors, but due largely to the tremendous pressure on resources in those countries, the upward thrust of costs and prices, the various deflationary and disinflationary measures which the authorities in those countries have been obliged to take and so on. 1 do not think that the people in those countries regard the current level of interest rates as reasonable; no doubt they all hope to see a considerable fall but so far there is no very positive sign that the table will turn. The second part of the honourable member's question concerns borrowings of the proposed corporation. This is a case where rumour, speculation, leakage and so forth have got out of the stable long before the horse. This being the case, anything I could say would be highly conjectural. Of course, this high interest situation could change in the course of time. I hope it will because the Australian Government has already been priced out of the market for its own loans. Naturally the proposed corporation will have to face these problems when they arise. 
I have had quite lengthy and continuous discussions with the officers of the Treasury and the Bureau of Census and Statistics on this subject. I am glad that the honourable member pointed out the necessity for much of this information. He will recall that from time to time many requests have been made in this House and elsewhere on behalf of business interests, social bodies and other groups in the community for the provision of reliable information upon which action of some kind or another can be based. This issue arose particularly in connection with the recent decision about the information which should be sought in the census to be taken in 1971. Representations have been heard both from those who have to provide the statistics and the users. No statistics are sought which have not been requested by users of one kind or another. It is always necessary to keep a balance between the nuisance and inconvenience caused to and time taken by those who provide these statistics, on the one side, and the benefit to users on the other. We endeavour, by a sifting process and by hearing all sides, to arrive at reasonable conclusions. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill to amend the Estate Duty Assessment Act will provide reliefs from duty on estates of deceased primary producers and remove restraints on the powers of the Commissioner of Taxation to grant extensions of time for payment of duty. The amendments proposed by the Bill were foreshadowed in the 1 969-70 Budget Speech and. were explained in detail by the former Treasurer in a' statement he. made in. this House on 24th September 1969. Thereliefs from duty will apply to estates of primary producers who, at the time of death, were domiciled in Australia. They will be available against duty on estates resulting from deaths on or after 25th September 1969. 
The Bill contains two basic tests for determining whether an estate is eligible for the reliefs. Broadly stated, an estate will be eligible if, firstly, disregarding any encumbrances or other debts, the gross value  of  rural property included  in it  is more than one-half  of  the gross value  of  the whole estate and, secondly,  if  more than one-half  of  the deceased person's gross income  in  the 5 years before his death was earned from carrying  on  a business  of  primary production. Rural property will include land, or interests  in  land, used  in  a business  of  primary production, together with improvements  on  the land. It will also include livestock, produce and farm plant and machinery,  or  interests  in  these assets. One of the reliefs  is  to be  in  the form  of  a 20% increase in the level of exemption from duty provided for small estates. 
The level of outright exemption, which is usually described as the statutory exemption, is to be raised from $20,000 to $24,000 for eligible estates passing wholly to the widow, children or grandchildren of the deceased, and from $10,000 to$1 2,000 for eligible estates which do not pass to any of those persons. 
Where the value of a primary producer's estate passing to his widow, children or grandchildren is greater than $24,000 the statutory exemption will be reduced by $2 for every $8 by which the value is greater than $24,000 and will, as a result, cut out where the value of an estate is $120,000. The same basis of shading out will apply for the smaller estates that do not pass to close relatives. This will mean that the new statutory exemption of $12,000 for these estates will be reduced where the value of an estate is in excess of $12,000 and will cut out completely where the value is $60,000. I mention that these bases for shading out the exemptions are the same as those that apply under the present law. 
The other relief is to be in the form ofa partial rebate of duty. It will be available where the dutiable value of an eligible estate is less than $250,000 and will be calculated as a proportion of the part of the duty that is attributable to the rural property included in the estate. The rate at which this rebate will be allowable is to be determined by reference to the value of the estate before the allowance of any statutory exemption. Where this value is not greater than $140,000 the rebate will be 50% of the part of the duty that, by a process of direct apportionment, is attributable to the rural property. If the value of the estate is greater than $140,000 but less than $250,000, the 50% rate will be reduced by one-tenth of 1% for each $220 by which the value of the estate exceeds$1 40,000. 
The Bill contains provisions under which estates of primary producers whose business activities had been conducted through a family company may qualify for the reliefs. In these estates, the allowance of the concessionswill primarily be conditional upon the gross value of the company's rural property being greater than the gross value of its other assets and upon the capital of the company being held wholly,or almost wholly, by the deceased and his relatives. 
If the primary conditions are satisfied by a company, the administrator of an estate may elect to have shares owned by the deceased in the company included as rural property of the estate to the extent that the value of the shares is attributable to rural property owned by the company. If the administrator makes this election the shares must, however, be valued by reference to their 'assets-backing' value for all estate duty purposes, including the general liability to duty and the proportion of duty attributable to rural property. 
The 'assets-backing' value will, in broad terms, represent the amount that would be received in respect of the shares in the event of a voluntary liquidation of the company, without any allowance for costs of liquidation. In effect, it will therefore be the market value of the property represented by the shares. This will mean that, when shares are treated as rural property for the purposes of the rebate, the property which they represent will, for all duty purposes, be included in the estate at a value corresponding with the value that would have been so included if the property had been owned personally by the deceased instead of by the company. This is also a feature of the probate duty rebate scheme of the State of Victoria and is designed to provide equity between primary producers who have conducted their businesses on a personal basis and those who have conducted them through companies. 
One of the eligibility tests I have referred to earlier is that the income of the deceased for the 5 years preceding death was derived principally from a business of primary production carried on by him. The 5-year period will be either the 5 full income tax years that preceded the death of the person or, at the option of the administrator, the 4 full income tax years together with the part year that ended with the death of the deceased. Where a deceased person had carried on his business through a family proprietary company, income received by him from the company in the form of dividends, salary or wages, bonuses or director's fees in each of the 5 years before death may be regarded as income from a primary production business carried on by him. This income will be so regarded if the company's own income in each relevant year was derived principally from a business of primary production and the deceased was a shareholder in the company at the time he derived his income from it. In the case where a primary production business had been conducted by the trustee of a trust estate in which the deceased person had been a beneficiary, a share of the trust income received by the deceased will, to the extent that it was paid out of the primary production income of the trust estate, be regarded as income from a business of primary production carried on by the deceased. 
The purpose of the provisions I have just mentioned is to ensure that an estate that is comprised principally of rural property will not be excluded from the reliefs because the primary production income of the deceased person was derived through the medium of a proprietary family company or a trust estate. The Bill* ensures that the existing rights of administrators to contest decisions of the Commissioner before a board of review, a valuation board or a court, where those decisions affect the liability of the estate for duty, are available in relation to the allowance of the proposed rebate. It also contains provisions under which an election made by an administrator to have shares in a proprietary family company included in the rural property in the estate may be withdrawn, if, for example, their inclusion at an 'assets-backing' value would, even with the allowance of the rebate, result in an overall increase in the duty payable by the estate. 
I turn now to the other important feature of the Bill. Under the present law, the Commissioner may not extend the time for payment of duty except upon receipt of sufficient security for payment. The law also requires that the whole of the estate duty payable shall1 be paid within a period of 2 years. The Bill will remove these restrictions so that an extension of time for payment of duty may be approved by the Commissioner in the light of the particular circumstances of an estate. This will apply for the general body of estates - not only the estates of primary producers - and will bring the estate duty law in this area into line with the comparable and more widely applied provisions of the income tax law. 
The amendments proposed by the Bill will result in a significant reduction in the duty payable on smaller rural estates. In the Government's view, they will provide valuable assistance to the heirs to farm properties and will do much to discourage the breaking-up of economic farm units to obtain finance to meet estate duty. An explanatory memorandum dealing with the provisions of the Bill is being circulated for the information of honourable members. In view of this, and the detailed statement that has already been made in the House by the former Treasurer, I do not propose to say more about the measure at this stage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I will do my best to make it available. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That  the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligations under a Commonwealth guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia, in respect of wheat from the 1968-69 crop. To assist in the marketing of that crop, arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to $624m from Rural Credits Department of the Bank. The date for final repayment is 31st March 1970, approximately 12 months after the drawings were made, in order to comply with section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act which requires that loans of the type made to the Board shall not be for more than 1 year. 
The Board's income from sales of wheat will be insufficient to enable it to repay the borrowings in full by the due date. This will mean that, for the first time since the wheat stabilisation scheme was introduced over 20 years ago, the Commonwealth will be called upon under the guarantee. The Board currently expects that its indebtedness to the Bank on the 1968-69 pool accounts as at 31st March 1970 will be in the vicinity of $250m. The Board also estimates that recoupment of this amount from subsequent sales of wheat to overseas markets will take about 15 months. 
It is proposed that the Commonwealth lend to the Board sufficient funds to enable it to discharge its debt to the Bank. It is also proposed that the Board be required to use for repayment of the loan all net receipts, after the date of the loan, from export sales of wheat of the 1968-69 pool. The Bill provides that the loan to the Board may be made available on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer determines. It is intended that the rate of interest on the loan by the Commonwealth will be the same as the rate charged for Government guaranteed loans by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank on the date the loan is made. 
The Bill authorises the Commonwealth to borrow up to $300m to make the loan to the Board. This exceeds the Board's current estimate of the amount required under the guarantee, but this seems prudent in case the Board's estimate proves to be too low. The Australian Loan Council has agreed to a special borrowing programme for this purpose for the Commonwealth in 1 969-70. The terms of the borrowing will be subject to Loan Council approval. To sum up, the Bill makes provision for the Commonwealth to borrow the requisite amount and to make a loan to the Board on terms and conditions approved by the Treasurer.I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion of Or Patterson) adjourned. 
1 give notice that at the next sitting I will move: 
That in relation to the proceedings on any Sales Tax Bills so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent 
the presentation of the first readings of the Bills together, 
one motion being moved and one question being put in regard to respectively the second readings, the Committee's report stages and the third readings of all the Bills together, and 
the consideration of all the Bills as a whole together in a Committee of the Whole. 

 Mr Speaker, I think I should let the House know that this is purely a procedural motion and that no immediate introduction of sales tax legislation is contemplated. As I shall explain more fully tomorrow, the motion will merely clear the way for the introduction, at any time, of Sales Tax Bills together. 
I have spent some considerable time looking at this question and honourable members will have observed the statement on the subject issued over the weekend by the Commissioner of Taxation. It has been suggested in a number of quarters that there should be specific cut-off points and a capital gains tax imposed on any profits rather than to treat them as income. The present law has been in effect for over 40 years and the test is that if property, including shares, is bought for the purpose of re-sale at a profit and not for income or investment purposes, the profits gained thereby are assessed as taxable income. In practice this has caused very few of the difficulties which theoretically have been raised by members of the public and the Press. 
I have looked at the suggestion that a capital gains tax should be substituted but the subject is complex. Other countries have imposed this system and sometimes the result has been an administrative headache out of all proportion to the results. 1 will continue to look at this problem. 
The best guidance that can be given to anyone in the community is to make a full revelation of his share transactions and indicate quite clearly which shares are intended for re-sale and profit and which shares are intended for investment purposes. In practice there has been very little trouble in the past out of the exercise of judgment in these matters. There is no real reason to think that there will be in the future. There is certainly not enough concern about the present system to introduce any hurried changes of the law. 
Those taxpayers who honestly state their position will in the normal course, naturally, have it accepted as is the case with other income tax returns. Where taxpayers are in any doubt they can apply for the advice of a senior tax official who will give such advice to them. No assessments will go out under this head which have not been examined by a senior taxation official and if any disputes should arise between the taxpayer and the Commissioner of Taxation the matter can be referred in the normal course to a tribunal. But so far my conclusion is that it would be unwise to legislate hurriedly just to clear up a difficulty which we Ho not expect in practice to arise. 
I understand that the new interest rates will not apply to advances by the Rural Credits Department for the very important matters which it finances, very largely on behalf of the nation. The statement by the Reserve Bank about increasing interest rates is of great significance to the whole economy. 
The right honourable member for Melbourne always knows everything about everything. Even when he sat on the Opposition front bench he used to mumble the answers to all the questions he had asked. The economy, as is widely recognised, and certainly by the Reserve Bank and by responsible authority generally, is in an overheated condition. The purpose of the upward movement of interest rates is, above all, to serve as a signal to all elements of the economy but particularly to dampen down the demand for bank finance. Within this general increase the privileged position which has applied for some time to rural producers and exporters will continue to apply. In other words they will be charged lower rates. As the right honourable member will recollect, this was negotiated by the Government and the Reserve Bank with the trading banks some years ago. Unfortunately, the rural sector is not sharing the general prosperity which is now pretty universal elsewhere. Therefore the Government is somewhat concerned about the effect that any absolute rise in interest rates, even though applied generally, will have on rural producers. I shall be having conversations with the Governor of the Reserve Bank about this problem very shortly. 
I am in pretty close and, fairly continuous contact with the Governor of the Reserve Bank. Our discussions roam over a pretty wide field. I would not point to anything specific, nor could I be expected to deal with the exact subject of conversation from time to time. I certainly do support the increase in interest rates which the Reserve Bank has jus'  wnnounced. 
The increase in bank advances over the last 7 months has been  2i  times to 3 times as much as in the corresponding period last financial year. The demand for money is extremely strong. 1 would expect this rise in interest rates to weaken the demand. But, above all, I would expect this increase to serve as a general signal and warning to the whole business and financial community that we are straining our resources and that it is not possibLe to extract a quart from a pint pot. This is its main purpose. Certainly, it will have the effect of dampening down some new activity at a time when the economy cannot stand it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of representations have been received for amendment of the law to allow deductions for income tax purposes for ambulance transport expenses. lt is the Government's practice to examine the many requests that have been made for taxation concessions when it is preparing the annual Budget. The representation made by the honourable member will be considered when the 1970-71 Budget is being drawn up. 
Embassies in Australia (Question No. 12) 
We have reason to suspect that there are a good many operations of this nature being undertaken with a view to avoiding Australian income tax. The Commissioner of Taxation himself has been inquiring closely into these matters and an investigation is toeing made. However, up to this time I have nothing definite to report. 
Of course, in this matter the Leader of the Opposition is deeply indebted to certain journalists who have the capacity to write articles. I would deduce from his question that this morning he read the front page of the 'Australian Financial Review'. There is no basic conflict at all between what the Governor-General said in his Speech and the statement I made that the economy is now somewhat overheated. 1 trust that the Leader of the Opposition has seen the latest statistics which were put out by the Commonwealth Statistician yesterday on the national income and expenditure for the December quarter. If he has not, I hope he will. From those figures he will reasonably deduce that the pressures which have been evident for some time have built up lately and have built up quite sharply. What was said in the Governor-General's Speech was a reasonable deduction at the time. In the period since, the economy has not fallen into a disastrous situation or anything approaching it, but the inflationary trend is now a matter for concern. Next week the Leader of the Opposition will also have the benefit of being able to study the lastest employment statistics in great detail when they are announced by my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service. If after this study, which I hope he will make in the meantime, he has further comments to make on any disparity, I will be glad to answer further questions next week. 
I know that the honourable member for Canning will readily appreciate that no one in the community has a greater interest in restraining inflation and keeping down inflationary cost rises than the farming community, and this is the main objective of the statement by the Reserve Bank and the change to be made. As I mentioned yesterday, within the general increase the relatively privileged position of exporters and rural producers will be preserved. As I undertook yesterday, I have since begun the process of discussion with the Governor of the Reserve Bank about the position of those members of the farming community who in recent times have been suffering hardship. We regret very deeply that these are as numerous as they are. I shall continue the discussions with the Governor of the Reserve Bank and point out to him - I am sure he is well aware of it, as indeed are the banks - the difficult position in which many rural producers are now placed. 
-I move: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on any Sales Tax Bills, so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent - 
the presentation and the first readings of the Bills together; 
one motion being moved and one question being put in regardto, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of all the Bills together, and 
the consideration of all the Bills as a whole together in a committee of the whole. 
When 1 gave notice of this motion yesterday I mentioned briefly that the motion was purely procedural and that no immediate introduction of sales tax legislation was contemplated. Alteration of sales tax rates usually involves the introduction of nine sales tax Bills. Over a period of many years the House has found it convenient for the Bills to be taken together. Standing order 291 permits these Bills to be introduced without notice, but it is necessary to suspend the Standing Orders to enable the Bills to be presented and dealt with together. When passed, the motion will remain effective for this session. By moving the motion at this time we will avoid the speculation which could result if a motion were introduced later in the year. 
I have not yet received the Superannuation Board's report but I will make inquiries about the present position and inform the honourable member. 
Recently, we did have a detailed review of deductions which the Commonwealth was prepared to make from salary payments for various purposes. This was done very largely in response to the request received from the various public service associations, including credit unions and other bodies. The whole matter was gone into very carefully. The list of deductions which could be made was extended some considerable distance to meet these requests, but, in some cases, undue work was involved and one or two items did need to be taken off the list. I think if the honourable member looks at the matter in totality he will realise that the Commonwealth went a great deal of the way to meeting the representations which it received. 
I feel quite sure that, if we have entered into any contractual arrangements, those contractual arrangements will be adhered to unless some agreement is made or some alternative arrangement is made to which the other side agrees. I am not quite up to date on when payments are precisely due. There is a series of payments to be made in the course of the year. I will look into the matter, find out the facts and let the honourable gentleman know. But he may rest assured that if there is any money that can be honourably saved I will be doing my best to do so. 
I will certainly look into this matter and let the honourable member know. In any event, 1 will certainly list it amongst those matters to be discussed when sales tax is being considered prior te framing the Budget. 
The last quarterly return on national income statistics was of course one of the many factors taken into account in the general assessment of the economy. I did draw the attention of the Leader of the Opposition to them the day before yesterday because I thought that he might find them enlightening for general purposes. But what the honourable gentleman is really seeking to do is what he was trying to do the day before yesterday, and that is to make a semantic point about the difference between what was stated in the Governor-General's Speech and the reasons given by the Board of the Reserve Bank of Australia for raising interest rates recently. I have looked through the Governor-General's Speech. One sentence reads: 
Pressures on costs and prices, though strong and persistant and requiring close attention, have for the most part been kept reasonably under control.  ]n large measure this may still be true, not in all cases but in a great number of cases. But there was certainly more than sufficient information to enable the Board of the Reserve Bank to make a sound judgment on the condition of the economy as a whole. The Leader of the Opposition is playing with semantics. Incidentally, the Governor-General's Speech is hardly written the day before it is delivered. In the Governor-General's Speech there is a clear indication that, although all is not well, the situation is reasonably under control. There is no great divide between the reasons given by the Bank and what was said in the Governor-General's Speech, and 1 should imagine that most people reading the statement would realise that it was simply saying that some action would have to be taken. As 1 said, the Reserve Bank is not dealing with a disastrous situation, but it is taking a very natural and logical course to curb the further movement of inflation. 
We are giving close attention and will continue to give close attention to these matters. It was said in the Governor-General's Speech that pressures on costs and prices are strong and persistent and require close attention. This is still the case and is likely to be the case for some little time ahead. 
Of course, it is a strong desire of the Government at all times to bring values into line with reality. If the honourable member will bring particular areas or districts to my attention as areas which do need special attention and perhaps special survey, this could be helpful. I would be grateful if he would do so. 
The honourable member will also be aware that very shortly I shall introduce an estate duty Bill to ease the estate duty paid by members of the farming and rural communities. But I will bring the honourable member's remarks to the attention of the Commissioner of Taxation - I presume he is the person the honourable member mainly has in mind - and if there is anything particular that the Commissioner can convey to me on this subject I will let the honourable member know. 
by leave - On 17th December last I announced that the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board had commenced the distribution of surplus assets in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund that were disclosed by an investigation of the Fund carried out by the Commonwealth Actuary in respect of the S-year period from 1st July 1959 to 30th June 1964. The distribution to eligible pensioners is now virtually completed and only a comparatively small amount remains to be paid. 
Preparations for the distribution to contributors are well advanced and I have accordingly declared today, 12th March 1970, as the date to be applied in the definition of an eligible contributor for the purpose of the distribution. This date will also be used for calculating for each eligible contributor an additional amount that, if compound interest were payable from 1st July 1964, would be the amount of that interest. 
It is expected that about 20,000 persons will be eligible to receive a share of the total amount of about $5m to be distributed. The validation of records and the final calculations of individual shares are therefore expected to take some weeks. I will make a further announcement when the Board is ready to commence this second distribution. 
I should mention that not all contributors to the Fund will be entitled to participate in the distribution. The persons who will benefit will be notified by the Board either through their Service Department if they are still serving members, or directly if they are no longer in the Service at the time the distribution is made. 
I will ascertain the latest position and let the honourable member and other honourable members know. 
 Mr Speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  raised a number of questions relating to the recent increase in interest rates decided upon by the Board of the Reserve Bank of Australia. The honourable member made a number of suggestions to me. One of the first suggestions was that a little homily be stuck up in my room reading 'More are advantaged by lower interest rates than are advantaged by higher'. I suggest another thesis which the honourable member might keep in front of him. It is this: Many more have to lose by inflation than gain from it. Those who lose because of inflation are those who are least able to protect themselves against the consequences, including, in this day and age. the rural community. 
I would like to begin by making two points for the benefit of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports: Firstly, interest rates in Australia are low compared with those of most other countries; secondly, within Australia interest rates on housing loans are low compared with rates on lending generally. It is true, of course, that in the immediate financial sense house owners or would-be purchasers of houses do gain greatly by low interest rates. All of us have something to gain, when making the payments that all of us have to make, if the payments to be made are reduced or are smaller in extent. But it is also important to people aiming to purchase homes that there should be a very adequate flow of people's savings into housing. 
In keeping a curb on inflation, nothing could be more damaging to the would-be home owner than an intensification of inflationary pressures. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports was inclined to question my theme that the economy is now becoming overheated. Of course, one could cover a wide field in consideration of this aspect but in the end it is a matter of judgment. The Board of the Reserve Bank has judged the situation in one way. I judge it to be very much the same and so. too, does the Government. Let us consider a number of items mentioned by the honourable member. Consumer spending, private investment, including housing, public sector spending, are all rising very strongly. The labour market is extremely firm and recently has been tightening at a very rapid rate. I have seen an analysis of the latest labour figures. The complete figures will be released on Tuesday by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden).  Those figures will reveal an extremely tight labour position. Personal* incomes are very buoyant and investment opportunities, both public and private, but particularly private, also have been sharply increasing lately and are continuing to expand at a rapid rate. In these circumstances it is very difficult to see any easing of the current pressures on the economy. 
These pressures are very evident in housing. For the 3 months to January, for example, building approvals were running at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 170,000 compared with 155,000 for the previous quarter, also seasonally adjusted, and 150,000 for the corresponding months a year earlier. At the end of December last there were over 12% more dwellings under construction than there were a year earlier. 
The labour situation is particularly tight in the building industry, and there are shortages in many areas of some types of bricks, roofing tiles and other building materials. All this is having a profound effect on housing costs. For example, in the year to the December quarter 1969 the housing group of consumer prices rose by 5.5% compared with a rise in the index for the whole of the economy of 2.8%. Therefore, the rise in the housing consumer price index has been almost twice the rise in the general index. The wholesale price index for non-residential building materials, most of which are also used in dwelling construction, rose by 4.3% in the year to January this year. Of all the sectors under pressure - which is most of the economy outside the rural sector - the intensification of pressure almost reaches its height within the building industry. All this is highly important to would-be home owners. Of course, we would rather see a more stable situation in the economy than further excessive increases in demand and cost and the inevitable development in the building industry of delays, bottlenecks and shortages. This situation applies particularly to housing as well as to the economy in general. 
The increases in interest rates on trading bank advances have to be viewed in perspective because other rates, such as savings bank interest rates, may also move. They have to be looked at in the total perspective as, I am sure, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports looks at them. Firstly, in our estimate of the currentt economic situation, there is a need to give a cautionary signal. There is also the need to take some edge off the keen demand for capital. Whatever the merits of the various demands for capital, booming capital expenditure is causing inflationary problems which perhaps have their first and most adverse effect on housing and people, such as home buyers, who are concerned with housing. In the complex of forces which face home buyers, the cost of interest on borrowed money is always of great importance, but in the end it is really not so significant as other factors. I would share, and we all share, the hope that circumstances will change and that a decrease in interest rates can be brought about both overseas, where Australia has to raise large capital sums, and within our own country. It is very gratifying that at least so far we have been able to preserve much of the margin between interest rates in Australia and overseas and keep our rates considerably lower. 
Of course, the other factor affecting lending rates is the encouragement given to people to make savings so that money can be lent for housing. There is a need to encourage savings by offering higher interest rates to depositors. In January trading bank deposits increased by only Sim compared with an increase of $151m in January last year. Savings bank deposits in January fell for the third consecutive month. An attempt to keep interests rates for home buyers artificially low would result in either even higher rates of interest than at present for borrowers other than borrowers for housing and home ownership or a drying up of the funds deposited and which are loaned for housing, because depositors would decline to make savings at the lower rates, which would be all the banks could afford to pay if the lending rate for housing were artificially lowered. Another alternative - and perhaps the honourable member for Melbourne Ports would agree with this, because I think it would follow logically from what he said - is for the Government to subsidise lending rates for housing. This is one solution that has been put forward. Of course, it would mean that the taxpayers would have to make up the difference. Again it is a question of where to draw the line. The taxpayer is already a somewhat overburdened member of the community - and of course nearly all of us are taxpayers in some form or another. The burden on taxpayers is very heavy. The Commonwealth, I remind the House, is already spending a great deal directly on housing. The total Commonwealth expenditure on housing in 1969-70 is estimated to be of the order of $265m campared with $239m for the last financial year. 
It is always easy to attack the obvious cost of interest. We all recognise this. But it is also equally easy to leave out of account in making these sorts of rather simple and straightforward charges the hidden cost to both the homeowner and the community. That hidden cost will always be there unless the Government concentrates on keeping the economy growing not only fast but strongly in a balanced way. If we allow money demands on the economy to increase unreasonably - and money demands are always increasing, particularly in the capital sector - by offering interest rates lower than the aggregate, the demand will be more than the economy can meet. There is no real way in the present circumstances of bringing down home lending rates except by subsidy in one form or another without bringing considerable dangers into the economy at large. 
My understanding is that currently there is neither an excise nor a customs duty on liquefied petroleum gas. The honourable member will appreciate  that it is a very long standing custom in this House that announcements of changes in taxation in any form are brought down without notice and no intention is expressed beforehand. 
The Banking Act confers upon the Reserve Bank power to make regulations, with the approval of the Treasurer, governing interest rates in the trading banking system. This move is normally recommended by the Board of the Reserve Bank and announced by the Governor. If the honourable member cares to consult precedents over many years he will see that this has long been the position. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Under the concessional deduction provisions of the income tax law, deductions for education expenses, including the cost of necessary books and fees, are allowable to a tax payer where the expenses are necessarily incurred by him for or in connection with the fulltime education of a person who is less than 21 years of age and is a child of the taxpayer or is a person for whom the taxpayer is entitled to a dependant's deduction. The deduction under these provisions is subject to an upper limit of three hundred dollars for any one student and is not available where the expenses are incurred in respect of a part-time student. 
Where a part-time student incurs expenditure on his own education, the general provisions of the income tax law apply in determining whether a deduction is allowable. These provisions authorise deductions for expenditure incurred in producing assessable income, but specifically preclude the allowance of deductions for outgoings which are of a capital, private or domestic nature. Decisions of Taxation Boards of Review have established that expenditure incurred by a taxpayer on a course of study undertaken with a view to acquiring academic qualifications, or to enable him to take up a career, is of a private or capital nature and is not deductible for income tax purposes. 
Where, on the other hand, a taxpayer incurs expenditure on a course of study undertaken for the purpose of maintaining the knowledge or skills required in following his profession or employment, the expenditure would generally qualify for deduction on the ground that it is incurred in connection with the production of his assessable income. 
It is the practice of the Government to examine the many requests of this nature that are made for taxation concessions when it is preparing the annual Budget. The representation made by the honourable member will be considered when the 1970-71 Budget is being drawn up. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The full text of the statement referred to makes my meaning plain. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The relevant provisions of the income tax law have been the subject of intensive study by the Government on a number of occasions. How ever, there are many problems in adopting alternative residential qualifications for zone allowance purposes and no satisfactory solution has so far been found. The matter has been noted for further review. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 can assure the honourable member that all requests for alteration of the zone boundaries and increases in the zone allowance receive careful and sympathetic consideration. However, there are constitutional and other problems in the way of extending the scope of the zone allowance provisions. The honourable member will realise that no matter where the zone boundaries are drawn people residing just outside those boundaries will consider that the boundaries should have been extended to include them, lt is the Government's practice to consider the many requests it receives each year for new and increased tax concessions during the preparation of the annual Budget when the scope for concessions can be properly assessed. Requests for amendment of the zone allowance provisions will be considered when the 1970-71 Budget is being drawn up. 
What the Leader of the Opposition has just said really illustrates the pressure which is now upon a great number of prices. If for no other reason, this pressure will increase because of the simply enormous increases which have occurred in wages and salaries. I noticed in the last report of the Bank of New South Wales and the New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures combination on their normal inquiry, which the Leader of the Oppo sition will know about, that about a third of the manufacturers concerned - who had faced considerable increase in prices and costs in recent months - were obliged, as a result of the pressure, to increase the prices at which they sold their products. I would expect this pressure to continue. This is not to say that it is out of hand. But as salaries and wages, apart from other things, rise so fast and so continuously they will exercise an upward pressure on prices. I am not aware of this application to increase petrol prices that was referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. Such applications do not come to me. I did notice that the South Australian Prices Commissioner referred to this matter in a statement a few days ago. This statement did not indicate that he was looking very favourably upon an immediate increase in oil prices. 
Quite clearly a major factor in price increases is increased costs, which in recent months have come mainly from increased wages and higher salaries. 
I was not aware that the honourable member for Oxley had asked the question. He may like to ask a supplementary question. A very big reason for price increases is the fact that wages and salaries have been rising at least twice as fast as, if not faster than, conceivable increases in productivity. In these circumstances there is great pressure on prices. This pressure is supplemented by many other forces. Of course, once prices increase more pressure is exerted for still higher wages. This again causes prices to rise even further. It is a continuous and growing pressure. But over the whole course of this year it looks as if we will get a rise in wages and salaries of something around or perhaps greater than 8%. If we take the difference - the rise in the level between the December quarter of 1968 and that of 1969  -  the increase is very marked indeed. In face of these increased costs no firm could not avoid raising its prices when having these large salary increases without becoming insolvent. 
This is particularly so of public authorities. In many cases there is no chance for public authorities - railways, transport services - to increase their productivity except by a very small amount. When they incur these big wage increases they are obliged to put up fares and in other words make up for their increased costs due to this process. While this pushing up of costs goes on, further increases in prices sooner or later become inevitable. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is the purpose of this Bill to obtain the approval of Parliament to an increase in Australia's quota with the International Monerary Fund and to seek authority to make the necessary payments out of consolidated revenue. The proposed increase in Australia's quota is part of a general review of fund quotas which was undertaken last year by the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund. The recommendations of the Board in this matter are contained in a report entitled 'Increases in Quotas of Members - Fifth General Review' and copies of the report have been circulated for the information of honourable members. The main proposal in the report is that Fund members should be enabled to increase their quotas from an amount of about $US21, 300m to approximately$US28,900m. That represents roughly a 36% increase in the quotas of Fund members. 
Under the articles of agreement of the Fund, any proposal to adjust members' quotas requires the approval of Governors representing at least 85% of the total voting power of member countries. As Australian Governor in the Fund, I recorded Australia's votes in favour of the resolution proposing the increase in Fund quotas mentioned above. This resolution, which has now been accepted by the required majority, is also reproduced in the paper circulated to honourable members. 
By way of background, I would remind the House that the international monetary system has been operating under conditions of strain in recent times. There have been crises of confidence in particular currencies and three major currencies, the pound sterling, the French franc, and the German mark, as well as a number of minor currencies, have been the subject of exchange rate adjustments over the course of the past 2 years. There have been sharp changes in the volume and direction of short-term capital flows. This has put pressure on the reserves of individual countries and has contributed, to some degree, to the rising level of interest rates on short-term money in America, Europe and Japan. A large number of countries found themselves in balance of payments difficulties during the period in question, and, in 1968, there were record drawings on the International Monetary Fund. During 1969, there was not only evidence of a loss of confidence in particular currencies, but there were also signs of a more general loss of confidence in the international monetary system itself. This made itself apparent most clearly in a move out of currencies into gold and in speculation on a rise in the price of gold. 
Towards the end of 1969, the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund met in Washington and it was the general consensus among Governors then that one of the factors leading to pressures on the balance of payments of member countries and to losses of confidence in particular currencies, was a growing lack of international liquidity among member countries as a whole. There was statistical evidence of this in the decline in the relationship between world reserves and world trade. In 1952, gold and foreign exchange had been equivalent to some 77% of world imports. By 1968, this proportion had fallen to 33% . 
It was against this background that Governors gave general support last October to two approaches to the international liquidity problem. The first approach was through an increase in 'unconditional' reserve assets by activating the proposal for special drawing rights. 
The special drawing rights scheme came into operation on 1st January 1970. Under this scheme, a total amount of$US9.5 billion in special drawing rights will be allocated to member countries of the Fund over the next 3 years and will constitute an addition to the first-line reserves of those countries. 
A Bill was put before the House on this subject in December 1968 and parliamentary approval was obtained then to Australian participation in the scheme. Australia has since received a first allocation of $A75m for the calender year . 1970 and should receive additional allocations of about $A60m in each of the succeeding years, 1971 and 1972. 
The second approach to the problem of increasing international liquidity has been that of increasing the 'conditional' reserve assets of members countries in the Fund by increasing their quotas - or ordinary drawing rights - with the Fund. 
The fifth general review of quotas has resulted in a proposal for an increase of SUS7.6 billion in total quotas of Fund members. Tn normal circumstances, this general level of quotas will not be reviewed for another 5 years. Meanwhile, Fund members, to the extent that they take up the offer, will have their second-line reserves strengthened by up to SUS7.6 billion. 
What,  Sir, are  the implications of the quota increase proposals for Australia? In the first place, it has been the consistent policy of Australia to support the activities of the International Monetary Fund. This has been basically because we agreed with the objectives of the Fund which included promoting exchange rate stability, eliminating restrictions on current transfers, and generally promoting international monetary co-operation. 
It has suited Australia's interests to have a strong international financial institution, such as the Fund, to ensure that the more powerful industrial countries of the world observe certain basic rules of behaviour in their trading and financial relations with others. It is compatible with these interests that we should support a proposal for an increase in Fund quotas which aims at maintaining the international monetary system in effective working order and which underpins the role of the Fund in that system. And indeed, the first signs are that the action taken by the International Monetary Fund has had just that kind of effect. There has been some progress towards a better state of equilibrium in the world balance of payments situation. The United Kingdom and 
France have moved out of deficit and Germany has experienced some loss of reserves. 
A number of factors have contributed to this improved situation including realignment of exchange rates and adjustments of internal policies by the countries concerned. But the Fund decisions on special drawing rights and the quota review  have done much to restore confidence in currencies and to provide a favourable climate for the readjustment process.  n  particular, the move out of currencies into- gold has been checked and perhaps reversed. On the whole, we are beginning the 1970s in a much more favourable position so far as the international monetary system is concerned than seemed likely in the last years of the 1960s. In the second place, however, Australia has a more direct interests in the quota review. We have always been subject to fairly substantial fluctuations in our own balance of payments position, ft is of special value to us, therefore, (hat the Fund should stand ready to provide us with additional amounts of temporary finance in time of need. 
Australia's quota with the Fund is al present $US500m or $A446m. The Bill before the House provides for this quota to be increased to $US665m or $A594m. We would be required to make a gold subscription of $US41m in order to qualify for this $US165m increase in our quota. This gold subscription would be met' out of our own gold holdings or through the purchase of gold with foreign exchange. There would be a fall in our gold and/or foreign exchange holdings but there would be an equivalent increase in our 'gold tranche' position with the Fund. This gold tranche can be drawn upon by Australia at any time so the transaction would, in balance of payments terms, amount to no more than a transfer from one kind of reserve asset to another. There would be a charge on the Budget of around SA37m to meet this gold subscription and this would need to be provided in the financial year 1970-71. The rest of the increase in the Australian quota of 3US165m would be subscribed in the form of a non-negotiable note denominated in Australian currency and lodged to the credit of the Fund at the Reserve Bank. This would involve no charge on the Budget. 
In brief, for a subscription of $US41m or$A37m, returnable in the event of the winding up of the Fund, we would obtain an increase in our fund drawing rights of $US41m, available automatically, and of $US165m, available in case of balance of payments need. Our present reserve position is a strong one. We have first-line reserves consisting of gold, foreign exchange, 'gold tranche' position with the Fund and special drawing rights of around $ A 1,400m. Our second-line reserves consisting of our four credit tranches with the Fund amount to $A446m. The increase in our quota with the Fund, though it cannot become effective before 30th October 1970, would have the effect of raising this to $A594m making a total first and secondline reserves position of near enough to $A2,000m. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish the new code of workers' compensation for Commonwealth employees announced by my predecessor in a statement to the House on 6th June 1968. The Bill and the 4 subsidiary Bills that I will introduce later are the culmination of an exhaustive study by a committee of Ministers and some years of work both by my own and by the Attorney-General's Department. The Minis ters' review was without doubt the most comprehensive and wide ranging in the history of the present Act since its introduction in 1930. It encompassed not only the principles underlying other legislation in this sphere and the practices of the respective administering authorities but also the comments of the courts and the proposals and representations received from many quarters - from unions and other employee organisations, from members of the Government parties and from members of the Opposition. Members of the ministerial committee themselves were not without experience in this field and their own contributions to the innovations in this Bill were considerable. The result is a Bill that represents a substantial advance in workers' compensation for Commonwealth employees. 
The Bill provides for many important changes in the scheme of compensation and the circumstances in which there is liability for compensation. It codifies and states in very much more detail than the existing Act the law concerning the employee's right to compensation. One fundamental change is that the Bill draws for the first time a clear distinction between the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation and the Commonwealth and, in essence, the future role of the Commissioner, who will be appointed by the Governor-General, will be that of arbitrator between the employee and the Commonwealth as the employer. Another is that the Commissioner will no longer have any non-appealable powers when determining liability. That is to say, all determinations regarding liability made under the new legislation will be subject to review or appeal. 
The arrangements for review of or appeal against determinations of the Commissioner have been substantially changed. Review tribunals are to be established as an alternative to the existing right of appeal to the county court. Each review tribunal will be constituted by a person appointed by the Governor-General. Provision has been made for the constitution of review tribunals by persons residing outside Australia to deal with requests for review by officers stationed overseas or locally engaged overseas staff. At present an appeal may be made from a decision of a county court to the High Court and ultimately to the Privy Council. Under the Bill an appeal from a decision of either a review tribunal or a county court can be on a question of law only and will be made to the Commonwealth Industrial Court. There will be a further and final appeal to the High Court but only by the special leave of that court. 
The new legislation is to apply or to be applied by regulations to additional classes of persons, not necessarily employees in the normal sense of that word, to whom the existing Act does not apply. These persons include holders of statutory offices, members of Commonwealth authorities, members of committees appointed by the Government and certain classes of volunteers. Examples of these volunteers are members of the Air Training Corps, the Australian Cadet Corps, the Naval Reserve Cadets and the Australian Sea Cadet Corps, volunteer bushfire fighters in the Australian Capital Territory, volunteers attached to units of the civil defence organisation in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, members df the repatriation volunteer workers groups serving  in  "repatriation institutions, and persons who, under the control or direction of an officer of the Commonwealth, voluntarily take part in air or sea search and rescue operations conducted by the Department of Civil Aviation or the Department of Shipping and Transport. Provision has been made for determining a rate of pay for a voluntary worker who, when injured, was not in receipt of earnings from other employment. 
The Bill provides for new levels of monetary benefits. The weekly rate of compensation for an employee is being increased from 28.15 to $31.80 and will be supplemented by an additional $7.70 for a dependent wife or husband and $2.80 for each child. The basic lump sum death benefit, to which other lump sum benefits are related, is being increased from $10,000 to $12,000 and the minimum payment for a dependent child increased from $200 to $280. The test of dependency is to be dependent for support in contrast to dependent on the earnings of the employee as provided in the present Act. For dependants' allowances to be payable it will no longer be necessary for the marriage to have occurred before the employee was injured. The supplementary allowance of $7.70 will be payable for the dependent hus- band of a working wife. Allowances will now be paid for student children under the age of 21 years. 
Payment of child's allowance will also be made for a dependent child who is the issue of a marriage contracted or an ex-nuptial relationship formed after the date of injury to the employee. Weekly payments will now continue should a person receiving compensation leave Australia. There will no longer be a maximum amount payable by way of medical expenses and the existing restriction on payment of travelling expenses to obtain treatment is not being re-enacted. Medical treatment will in future include treatment and maintenance at a rehabilitation centre operated by the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. Provision has also been made for meeting the cost of repair or replacement of artificial members and aids damaged or destroyed in an accident at work or during travel to or from work even though the employee himself is not injured. 
The Bill makes a number of improvements in relation to specified injuries. The schedule of injuries has been modified to eliminate the existing distinction between left and right upper limbs. Provision is also made for lump sum compensation for the loss of power of speech, for severe and permanent facial disfigurement and for the permanent loss of capacity to engage in sexual intercourse, the disability about which the former honourable member for West Sydney,  Mr Minogue,  campaigned so strongly over the years. 
The Bill provides for several improvements in the method of assessing compensation for specified losses. For example, it will no longer be necessary, as the existing Act requires, for compensation paid for impairment of sight from one injury to be taken into account in calculating the compensation payable for further impairment of sight as a result of a later compensatable injury. There is also provision for an alternative basis of assessment when an injury results in the permanent but partial loss of efficient use of a faculty or a part of the body. The present Act requires an assessment of the partial loss of the efficient use of a part of the body or of a faculty other than sight to be related to the employment at the date of injury. Under the Bill assessments in such cases will be based on the degree of diminution of use of the affected part or faculty except when an assessment on the basis of loss of efficient use in relation to the employment at the date of injury will1 provide a greater benefit for the employee. Under the present Act payment of a lump sum for a specified loss or in redemption of weekly payments terminates for all time the liability of the Commonwealth to pay weekly incapacity payments. This Bill makes provision for weekly payments to be resumed where, after a lump sum has been paid, an employee's condition unexpectedly deteriorates so that he again becomes totally incapacitated and is likely to remain so indefinitely. 
The scope of the provisions covering injury while travelling to or from employment has been greatly extended. For employees generally the interpretation of a journey to or from employment has been extended to include one that would have been completed not more than one hour before commencing work or one commenced not more than one hour after ceasing work. Provision is made for extending this hour of grace in certain circumstances. Cover is also provided for any journey to or from the place of employment during a break in employment of not more than one hour - for example, a lunch hour - as if the journey were one to or from the employment. Also included are new provisions to cover the special situation of servicemen, employees living in temporary camps provided by their employer and a person travelling to or from a pick-up centre when the Commonwealth was his last employer. The Commissioner will no longer have a nonappealable power in relation to a travel case involving a substantial interruption or deviation during a journey to or from the employment. 
The disease provisions have been liberalised so as to allow prescription of diseases of an occupational nature in accordance with International Labour Organisation conventions. These diseases will be automatically accepted as due to the nature of the employment. From the view point of employees a significant advance is that an employee will no longer be in danger of being disqualified from lodging a claim for compensation if he is not able to give notice of his injury or disease before he leaves Commonwealth employment. Should he wish to seek damages he will now have 3 years instead of 12 months in which to institute proceedings. 
These are just some of the changes and improvements in the existing scheme of compensation that are being made by this Bill. The contents of the Bill and the relationship between it and the four additional Bills that I will shortly introduce are explained in more detail in the explanatory memorandum that I have arranged to have distributed to honourable members. This Bill, which is to come into operation from a date to be proclaimed after regulations, appointments and appropriate administrative arrangements have been made, will have prospective operation only. That is to say, it will apply only to injuries by accident occurring after the date on which the BDI comes into operation and to cases of death or incapacity occurring on or after that date as a result of a disease or aggravation of a disease, whether the contraction or aggravation of the disease occurred before or after that date. As a corollary of this, the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill, the second Bill that I will introduce, will provide for the existing Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act, suitably amended, to be limited in its operation to existing cases, that is, to those where the injury, or in the case of a disease, a death, loss or incapacity resulting from disease, takes place before the commencement of this Bill. However the improvements in monetary benefits will also be included in that Bill and will apply from the date of Royal Assent to that Bill. From what I have said it will be apparent to honourable members just how wide-ranging the Government's review of the existing Commonwealth compensation legislation has been. The Bill does not adopt all the proposals and suggestions that have been made over the years but includes a great many of them. In the view of the Government it will, when it comes into operation, provide a generous and modern scheme of workers' compensation for Commonwealth Employees; one that will remedy many defects of the present legislation and clearly define and protect the rights of employees. But the Government's mind is not closed so far as the Bill is concerned. It is a complex Bill of singular importance to employees and we expect honourable members, employees and employee organisations will study it closely. 
We think it a very good Bill and a major advance but we stand prepared to consider on their merits suggestions for amendment during its passage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
 I cannot give the honourable member a precise date. After today's sitting the Parliament will be in recess for 2 weeks. Thereafter the programme, I understand, is not definite and I will have to refer the matter later to the Leader of the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is, firstly, to increase the rates of the monetary benefits provided under the existing Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act. I have already indicated the extent of these increases in the course of my second reading speech on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970. The increased benefits are to be payable on and from the date on which this Bill receives the Royal Assent. 
Secondly, the Bill amends the existing Act and limits its operation to existing cases and any arising before the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970 comes into operation. It incorporates in the existing Act the generality of improvements provided for in the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. These amendments will have effect from the date on which that Bill comes into operation. 
The Bill provides for the repeal of a number of the provisions of the existing Act. Some, such as sections 12 and 15 and the Third Schedule, are being replaced by new provisions comparable with provisions incorporated in the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. Others, such as sections 5 and 21, will become redundant when the new code comes into operation, while section 14 is already redundant. Yet others, such as section 8 and paragraph 12 of the First Schedule are being repealed because the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill does not contain equivalent provisions. 
Provision is made for the new Commissioner for Employees' Compensation to deal with matters arising in connection with determinations made by the present Commissioner. Any determinations made after this Bill comes into operation will be subject to the review and appeal provisions of the new Act. If a determination is made under the existing Act before that time but appeal proceedings have not been instituted before the new review and appeal provisions come into operation, then they will apply to the determination. 
The contents of the Bill are explained in greater detail in the explanatory memorandum that has been distributed to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I realise that the honourable member is speaking without commitment and in the same spirit I will consider the matter. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is twofold. Firstly, it makes amendments to the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1968 consequent upon the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill and the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. Secondly, it provides for amendments to the principal Act, effective as from the date of commencement of that Act, to enable the principal Act to be applied to civilian employees - within the restricted meaning that that term has in this context - who are employed, either within or outside the territorial limits of Australia, by the Government of the United States of America in connection with the station. 
When this legislation was being prepared it was not clear whether any civilian employees of the Government of the United States would be employed outside the territorial limits of Australia and the application of the Act was limited accordingly. 
It has since transpired that some civilian employees proceed outside the territorial limits of Australia on work associated with the operation of the station and this practice is likely to continue. The Bill provides for the application of the Act to be extended accordingly.I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make minor amendments to the Air Accidents (Com monwealth Liability) Act consequent upon the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Bill and the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. The amendments provide for reference to both compensation Acts and make the necessary adjustments to sections 10 and 15 of the Act following the repeal of section 17a and the insertion of new sections 17b to 17d by the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill and the provisions of clauses 98 to 100 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the  Bill be  now read a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make minor amendments to the proposed AngloAustralian Telescope Agreement Act 1970, consequent upon the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970. The Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill was introduced into the House on 4th March 1970. Section 16 of the proposed Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970 extends the application of the existing compensation legislation, the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act 1930- 1969, to Australian members of the proposed Anglo-Australian Telescope Board and to employees of the Board. 
The amendments to section 16 of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970 being made by this Bill will enable the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act 1930-1970 and the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1970 to apply to those persons. By clause 2 of the Bill the amendments will be effective from the day on which the compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1970 comes into operation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of estate duty on estates of servicemen who die while on service in Vietnam, or as a result of that service, has been considered and a limited exemption for these estates has been provided on the same basis as was provided for estates of persons who died as a result of service in the 1939-1945 War or in Korea or Malaysia. 
The limtied exemption is available where service was rendered on or after 31 July 1962 in South Vietnam, or on or after 1 March 1967 in the offshore waters of Vietnam, and applies to the estates of servicemen who die, as a result of injuries received or disease contracted during that service, either whilst on that service or within three years of the termination thereof. 
The exemption is in the form of a special deduction equal to so much of the estate, up to (10,000, as passes to the widow, children, grandchildren, parents, brothers, sisters, nephews or nieces of the deceased serviceman. 
It is understood that the New South Wales Stamp Duly Act confers outright exemption from death duty on estates of members of the Forces who, during or within one year after the termination of service in Vietnam, die from injuries received or disease contracted while on such service. 
lt is understood that the laws of all other States provide some form of concessional treatment in Hie assessment of duty on estates of servicemen who die as a result of service in Vietnam, but, as far as is known, no State other than New South Wales provides outright exemption from duty irrespective of the value of the estate. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This is the same question as was put to me by the Leader of the Opposition at question time on 4 March 1970 (Hansard, page 25) andI have nothing further to add to the answerI gave to him at that time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Deductions of union subscriptions will be made subject to compliance with the conditions of the scheme which have been discussed with union representatives. 
Commonwealth departments will make deductions on behalf of all registered unions and associations. The deduction of union subscriptions by Commonwealth instrumentalities is a matter for consideration by the instrumentalities concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provision of financial assistance and relief for those affected by natural disasters such as Cyclone Ada is primarily the responsibility of State Governments. However, the Commonwealth normally contributes; on a dollar for dollar basis, towards the costs incurred by State Governments in providing relief of personal hardship and distress resulting frsm such disasters. In a telegram dated 19 January 1970, the Prime Minister offered Commonwealth assistance to the Queensland Government, on a dollar for dollar basis, for the relief of personal hardship and distress in the areas affected by Cyclone Ada. 
In circumstances similar to this disaster, it has been the practice for State authorities to recompense private citizens for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in relief and rescue operations. I understand that small boat owners who took part in search and rescue operations during Cyclone Ada have already been recompensed by State authorities for fuel used in these operations. The costs so incurred by the State will be included as part of the total cost of providing relief of personal hardship and distress which, as I have indicated, will be shared equally by the State Government and the Commonwealth. 
Papua and New Guinea: DDT Spraying (Question No. 457) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consideration was recently given to the question of exempting from income tax the earnings of individuals employed by a State instrumentality on an overseas project of a United Nations agency. 
It is a general principle of our income tax law to tax Australian residents on their world income, except where relief is granted from double taxation, on the ground that they receive governmentprovided benefits and that it is equitable for Australians with comparable incomes to pay comparable tax.T his general principle is modified, where, to give effect to International Agreements to which Australia is a signatory, the salaries of Australian residents who are officials of prescribed organisations (e.g. the United Nations and its specialised agencies) are exempt from Australian tax. These International Agreements do not, however, provide for this exemption to be extended to employees of contractors who do business with the prescribed organisations. In the light of the general principle 1 have mentioned, I would not favour the creation of exemptions not required by the International Agreements. 
The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
Separate statistics are not available of income tax deductions for education expenses in respect of students attending institutions of each one of the . classes specified by the honourable member. Accordingly, no reliable estimates can be made of the cost to income tax revenue of allowing deductions for fees paid to each class of institution. However, it is estimated that the cost involved in respect of deductions for fees paid to all of the types of institutions mentioned would amount to a total of about $lm per annum. 
In replying on 12th March to a question about the F1ll which was asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  I undertook to let him know the facts concerning the further regular payments coming due on the F1ll Project. Payments on the F111 project are made to the United States Government for the principal contract and I am informed that the most recent payment to the United States Government was$US345,962 paid on 27th March 1970. There are three other payments totalling an estimated $US4,900,000 which are due for payment to the United States Government before 30th June 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member addressed similar questions to my predecessor in office on 1st May 1968 and 17th April 1969. The position has not changed since then, and I would refer him to the answers to those questions which were supplied on 15 th May 1968 (Hansard page 1501) and 13th May 1969 (Hansard page 1734). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the percentage changes in gross national product at constant prices per head of population in Australia, the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan and a number of the countries of Western Europe. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary estimates of wage and salary earners in civilian employment for June to August 1969 were issued on 12 February 1970, and estimates for September 1969 on 24th February 1970. 
The delay in issuing these figures has been caused by the need to calculate a new series of estimates based on the results of the 1966 Population Census. New estimates for the period from June 1966 to June 1969 were issued on 16th January 1970. 
The Commonwealth Statistician is making every effort to overcome the delay as quickly as possible. Estimates for October and November 1969 were issued on 17th March 1970, and it is expected that the normal publication timetable will be restored in the near future. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As advised by my predecessor, this information is not available to the Commonwealth and, as it is not required for normal statistical classifications, it is not at this stage intended to attempt to obtain it. 
-I would say that public expenditure is increasing at a rapid rate. At present it is something like 11% for current and 9% for capital expenditure. It is certainly increasing at a fast rate but at a rate which is in line with increases in various other factors of demand. It is true that if this overall rate of demand continues relative to our capacity to produce and our gross national product in real terms, something has to give way. This increase in government expenditure is not just an increase of expenditure by the Commonwealth; it is State and local government expenditure as well. This has been in response to the incessant demands by the public for better capital facilities and better public services generally. While pressure for these services increases, of course, the expenditure is liable to rise in response. 1 do not think that increases in public expenditure are outstripping others. The fact is that in the aggregate the total is rising. Currently demand is rising at the rate of about 10%, whereas our effective productive effort in real terms is rising at the rate of 5% or 6%. While these factors prevail there will be pressure in the usual places - on the labour market, wages, prices, imports and the usual manifestations of the existence of excess demands, but I do not think that I could single out the government sector as being the only sinner in this regard. 
 I do expect lending generally to become more difficult and tighter for the obvious reason that demand is currently outstripping our capacity to supply and, without this pressure being brought to bear, our risks of developing a nasty inflationary situation will be very much greater. As regards South Australia specifically with respect to housing in general terms the situation will no doubt become rather more difficult, lt is necessary to take some of the pressure which has developed in the last few months off the industry and certain areas may suffer more than others. 
I think, if the honourable member looks into it closely, that he wilt notice that the development of building societies, which are specialist institutions devoted to the provision of housing finance, has been far less in South Australia than the development in other States. If he looks into the historical factors which cause this situation it might help to enlighten him. If he brings his documentation to me I will certainly look into the specific problem which he has raised. 
Firstly, the passage of years has translated me from Minister for Housing to Treasurer. In answer to the question I would say this: One important factor affecting housing and those in the community, particularly the young people, seeking to buy homes has been the serious rise in the cost of home building and, of course, building materials. This is the product of the enormous pressure on the industry over most of its fields to build more houses than resources really allow. In these circumstances a measure of restraint is likely over a period to be beneficial to the industry. I continue to hold that view about the very important social priority of housing and I think it fs necessary as with other costs to keep a very close watch on it. 
I move: 
That  the Bill  be  now  read a  secondtime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment to the States this financial year of special financial assistance totalling $16m. The $16m is made up of 3 elements - an amount of $12m, to be distributed among the six States in proportion to the financial assistance grants payable to them this year under the formula laid down in the States Grants Act 1965-1968; an additional grant of $1.5m to Tasmania; and further amounts, totalling $2. 5m to compensate the Stales for the estimated additional interest costs incurred by them up to 30th June 1970 as a result of the removal of the income tax rebate on Commonwealth Loan interest in November 1968. 
The grant of SI 2m, which represents general budgetary assistance, was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  at the recent Premiers Conference in response to representations by the States that they were facing difficult budgetary problems this financial year, due to wage rate increases and other factors. 
Final estimates of the financial assistance grants payable to each State in 1969-70 are not yet available. However, on the basis of present estimates, the distribution of the grant of Si 2m would be as follows: 
The additional payment of SI. 5m to Tasmania represents special assistance of a temporary nature to help the State finance its revenue deficit. Under the procedures of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, Tasmania will not receive the final adjusting part of its special grant in respect of 1969-70 until 1971-72. The effect of the extra payment of $1.5m will be to reduce the 1969-70 revenue deficit which the Stale would otherwise have had to carry until that time. It is part of the understanding between the Commonwealth and the State that the SI. 5m will result in the final adjusting part of the 1969-70 special grant being that much less. 
When the income tax rebate on Commonwealth loan interest was removed in November 1968 it was recognised that this would result in the States having to pay higher interest rates on their borrowing programmes for works and housing. The Commonwealth Government therefore undertook to reimburse the States for the additional interest costs incurred by them up to 30th June 1970. The amounts set out in the schedule to the Bill represent estimates of the additional cost agreed between each of the States and the Commonwealth. The proposed reimbursements total $2. 5m. The additional costs borne by the States after 30th June 1970 will be taken into account in the new grants arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States to commence next financial year. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The representations which were made to me, and to which the honourable member for Reid has referred, concerned particularly the difficult position in which some of the terminating building societies find themselves. I have looked at these representations and they will be taken into consideration. The honourable member might also note that in recent months the permanent building societies for quite a period exceeded the provision of funds by the savings banks for the first time, so they have been flourishing considerably. The general overall position is that with rising money rates it is not possible to get the public to subscribe to these or other institutions except by offering a higher rate of interest. 
The answer to the honourable members' question is as follows: 
The Loan Council comprises representatives of each Stale Government and the Commonwealth Government and its proceedings are confidential. It would not be proper for any one Government to release information concerning the decisions of the Council. Although the Loan Council has agreedto release certain information concerning total borrowings by semi-governmental bodies under 'Gentlemen's Agreement', the borrowings of individual authorities are not available for publication other than by the State or the authority concerned. 
I am aware of this meeting which took place last week, following which representations were made to the Government. I have since made an arrangement, in conjunction with my colleague the Minister for Housing, to see representatives of the Master Builders Federation and a number of other authorities concerned with building, on Friday morning. I do not agree by any means with some of the representations made both publicly and to the Government. They vary by degree and nature. Some of them almost amount to mass pressing of panic buttons and certainly do not do the industry any good. Believing that I might be asked a question on this subject I brought into the chamber with me a statement made by  Mr Hobart, Chairman  of Stramit Boards Ltd, which was published in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 1 6th April and with which I heartily agree. He said inter alia:   . . on-site construction in the building industry is racing along at frenetic speed .... The immediate penalties of the present boom, where nobody seems to get much advantage, is decreasing labour productivity, extravagant competition for labour, and lower quality, all of which add up to steeper price rises and delayed finishing times. If the controls are applied judiciously and released with sufficient anticipation, a return to a healthy level of increase without long term disruption could be expected. 
Under these conditions, such short term adjustments are welcomed as well as necessary. 
That is a statement with which I completely concur. It is the Government's desire to see an outcome of this kind. The building industry has not been dealt with singly but as part of the whole econorny althouigh it is an industry which is particularly affected. 
This is the kind of result for which the Government is aiming and which sensible people in the building and housing industry would applaud. 
r move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for expenditure for which provision was not made in the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1969-70. The total appropriations sought in this bill Amount to $90,053,000. The various items included in this Bill can be considered in detail in Committee and I propose at this stage to refer only to some of the major provisions. 
The additional requirement for departmental salaries is $22m and includes provision for increases in salaries arising from the 1969 national wage case and other arbitration determinations, reclassification of offices and additional staff. Further appropriations totalling Si 3.5m are required for departmental administrative expenses, including $2.1m for overseas representation. $1.6m for rents, real estate management and surveys, and Sim for additional capital for the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank. Additional ' appropriations amounting to $23. 7m for departmental other services include $1.5m for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, $4.4m for embarkation and passage costs for migrants, $2.2m for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, $].6m for war and service pensions and allowances, $].4m for other repatriation benefits, $5m for the Ship Building Division of the Department of Shipping and Transport, $1.3m for grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act and $l.lm for remission of taxes and fines under special circumstances. 
Additional appropriations totalling $30.8m are sought for defence Services, including approximately $20.0m for increases in Service pay and allowances and increases in salaries of civilian staff. However it is expected that there will be equivalent savings in other appropriations due mainly to rephasing of equipment orders, lags in delivery of stores and equipment, delays in the construction of naval ships and in the construction of storage accommodation and. other facilities. It is therefore expected that: total expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and Loan Fund on defence Services in 1969-70 will not exceed the Budget estimate. The additional appropriations being sought in this Bill are not to be taken .as an indication that actual expenditure will exceed the appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1969-70 to the extent of the full $90,053,000 as it is expected that there will be an offset of approximately $42m because of savings in expenditure under other appropriations in that Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  Bill be now read  a  second time.  The purpose of this Bill is to obtain Parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in 1969-70 amounting to $34,087,000 on various items relating to capital1 works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services. Although additional appropriations of $25.8m are sought for capital works and services it is expected that because of savings of about $8.6m in other similar appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1969-70, the cash requirement over the Budget estimate of $536.7m will be about  S  17.2m. The major requirements are S2m for a repayable advance to the Papua and New Guinea Administration for construction of the township at Arawa in connection with the Bougainville copper project; S3m advance to the Papua and New Guinea Administration for budget equalisation purposes;  Si.  6m for acquisition of sites and buildings;  SI.  4m for loans to co-operative building societies in the Australian Capital Territory; $3.9m advance to the Northern Territory Housing Commission which will' be offset to the extent of about  S3.  4m because of savings in a similar appropriation;  Si.  1m for the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric power project;  S4m  for payment to the Post Office Trust Account and S5m for buildings and works. 
Additional appropriations of $8.1m are sought for payments to or for the States, including $7m for drought assistance to Queensland. It is expected that there will be savings of about $0.6m in other similar appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1969-70. The additional appropriations sought for other services amount to S21 2,000, which includes a grant of $150,000 to the South Pacific Games (1969) Trust. 
As I have said, this Bill seeks additional appropriations of $34,087,000. However because of savings in expenditure under other appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1969-70, it is expected that the total expenditure will exceed the amount appropriated in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1969-70 by about $24.9m. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate moneys to carry on the necessary normal services of the Government during the first 5 months of the financial year 1970-71. The total amount sought in this Bill is SI, 11 3,002,000 comprising: 

<graphic href="067131197005051_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amounts provided represent the estimated requirements for the first 5 months of the financial year and in respect of most services generally represent approximately five-twelfths of the 1.969-70 appropriation. No provision is made for new services. 
An amount of $20,000,000 is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I  move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $221,757,000 for certain expenditures to carry on the necessary services of the Government for the first 5 months of 1970-71. The total amount sought comprises: 

<graphic href="067131197005051_16_1.jpg"></graphic>

The amount for capital works and services is required in general for the orderly continuation of works programmes, but includes a $5m repayable advance to the Papua and New Guinea Administration for construction of the township at Arawa in connection with the Bougainville copper project. The amount of $20m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year, and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is contained in the following table, which was provided by the Commonwealth Statistician. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposal by Kitchens of Sara Lee to establish a plant at Gosford, N.S.W., to manufacture Frozen Bakery Products was featured in 'The Australian Financial Review' dated 27 February 1970. 
I do not have this information. 
and (4) It is not the practice of a bank to provide the kind of information requested. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Banking Act 1959-1967 and the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations. 
, (3) and (4) The forward exchange facilities provided by the Reserve Bank are designed primarily to facilitate export and other current transactions, and cover is available only for the normally short periods required for such transactions. Capital transactions, including overseas borrowings, are not eligible for cover. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is that, of Defence expenditure totalling SI, 164.7 million in 1968-69, approximately $835 million was spent in Australia. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is contained in the following tables, which have been provided by the Commonwealth Statistician. The figures have been prepared on the same basis as those provided in reply to previous questions on the same subject asked by the honourable member. For years prior to 1968-69 the figures have been revised to incorporate more recent information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that there is no one source from which statistics of registered nursing personnel in Australia can be derived. Some information can be obtained from the registers of nurses maintained in each State, the A.C.T. and the Northern Territory: from information obtained during the Australian population censuses: and from returns provided by hospitals and nursing homes. None of these sources reveal the numbers of qualified nurses engaged in their profession in Australia. 
The registers of nurses are not a satisfactory source of statistics for this purpose because of differing requirements in each State and Territory, double counting under different categories of nurses, duplication of registrations as between States and registration of nurses who do not follow the profession. 
Information obtained from the 1966 Population Census is inadequate for the purpose because nurses were included in a category which also includes trainees but excludes nurses working in outer occupations at the time of the census as those would be listed under those occupations. 
Statistics of nurses provided by hospitals and nursing homes include student nurses, nursing aides and other nursing staff without full qualifications and exclude nurses employed outside those institutions. 
The Statistician has advised that he is examining the practicability of obtaining separate classifications of 'certified nurses', 'probationers or trainees' and 'nursing personnel not elsewhere classified', for purposes of both the next Census and the annual returns from health and welfare institutions. He is also examining the possibility of obtaining statistics which would include qualified muses working in other occupations at the time of the census. 
Shipping: 'Joseph Banks' (Question No. 653) 
In reply to the honourable member's question, the Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that statistics regarding the number and description of dogs exported from Australia are not available separately. The only information available is that recorded under Export Commodity Item 941.00.19, 'Animals n.e.s. (including Zoo Animals, Dogs and Cats), Other'. The value of exports to Japan for this Item (expressed on a free on board port of shipment basis) for the financial years 1966-67 to 1968-69 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Quarterly estimates of the work force based on quarterly sample surveys published currently by the Commonwealth Statistician date back only to August 1966. Prior to that date work force figures were published only in respect of the actual population census data. 
A consistent and continuous work force series dating back to 1950 is not, therefore, available; however, estimates based on the information that is available have been made in my department. A number of assumptions have been made in preparing these estimates and they are not. therefore, regarded as definitive. Using these estimates in conjunction with the gross national product figures published by the Statistician gives the following results in terms of the value of gross national product per head of the work force since 1950-51: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The loss to income tax revenue which would result if taxpayers were allowed deductions for -interest paid on housing loans without limit as to amount is now estimated at approximately 590m per annum. 
The estimate is based on interest paid in 1968-69 on advances for the purchase of dwellings made by banks, life insurance businesses, superannuation funds, building societies, public- financial enterprises and instalment credit companies, lt does not include loans from personal sources. The earlier estimate provided on 28t.h August 1968 by my predecessor related only to amounts identifiable as housing loans made by the traditional lending institution1!. As was pointed out, the earlier estimate did not, for example, include the cost of allowing deductions for interest on loans for homing obtained from finance companies or from personal sources. 
Taxation: Companies Registered at Norfolk Island  (Question No. 615)  Mr Webb  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that over 1,000 companies have registered at Norfolk Island to avoid mainland company tax. 
If so, what action is proposed to bring these companies within the tax held. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of companies registered on Norfolk Island has grown to more than 1.000 and the Government has reason to believe that a size able proportion of the recent growth in registrations is attributable to schemes having as their purpose the avoidance of Australian tax. Since  these schemes  generally involve the creation of more than 1 Norfolk Island company, the number of possible tax avoidance schemes is thought to be considerably less than might be inferred from the growth in the number of Norfolk island companies. 
The Government would, of course, be concerned if it were possible for persons prepared to enter into such schemes to avoid tax - and thereby increase the tax burden on other taxpayers - by the simple expedient of creating what might be called 'paper companies' on Norfolk Island. It remains to bc seen whether these schemes will be successful. The Commissioner of Taxation is conducting a thorough examination of the arrangements involved and is pursuing the matter vigorously within the framework of our existing lax laws. It is not possible at this stage to indicate what courses of action the Government might take in this matter. 
I answered a question of this character yesterday. At this stage 1 have nothing to add to what I then said. 
Any change in the bond rate is likely in this respect to have a beneficial effect ultimately in reducing costs of work in which developers are engaged. In itself, the fact that bond rates have changed would not bear directly on the question. The authorities mentioned by the honourable member operate under the regulations and provisions laid down by State authorities. One of the factors contributing to the increase in the cost of land is the requirement to provide facilities before land can be sold. I am well aware of this position; it has been so for a good many years. The change in bond rates is not for any theoretical reason, whether it be political, economic or the results of learned dissertations. Bond rates have been raised for the simple and straightforward reason that the Government has to go into the money market as it is today to raise the funds which it needs. If the honourable member will look at page 14 of the last 'Treasury Bulletin' he will see there set out the results of the loan raising in February. On the long dated securities we received subscriptions of $2m out of a total $209m in cash. Anyone who is so stupid as to think that we can continue to run a bond market on the low rates that have been operative is simply flying in the face of facts. This time bond rates have been increased because the foundation of any sound financial system in an advanced country like Australia must be a long term bond market. We have not recently had an effective long term bond market. We have had to subsist on very short term raisings. This cannot be regarded as a healthy state of affairs in the long run and it is necessary to restore this market. It is also desirable to persuade the smaller investors to invest in government securities. That is the reason for the rather attractive terms now operating for the new U bonds. Details of these bonds will be available tomorrow and I would suggest to the honourable member that he invest in them and give good leadership to everyone else. I commend the bonds generally to the House and to the public. 
The Government has no authority or direct influence in this sphere. If the honourable member wishes to have factual information about what has occurred and the way by which interest rates could have been got round, I suggest that he place on the notice paper a question addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and he will be furnished with full information. 1 do not control or influence this particular process. 
The policy applies to the whole economy and the building sector is no exception. It so happens that the building industry is one of the sectors within the economy where inflationary tendencies have appeared strongly. I would refer the honourable member to the quotation I made in the Mouse yesterday. This describes the building industry as one of those sectors of the economy which are most subject to inflationary tendencies. 
The House will be aware that the disbursement of the surplus in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund is in 2 parts. The distribution to those who have already retired and are eligible pensioners has been completed. The last time I had cause to inquire as to how the distribution to existing contributors to the Fund was faring I was informed that the validation of all necessary records, the calcu lations and the arrangements for distribution by the different paying agencies - that is, the defence forces, sub-Treasury and Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board were near completion and that the bulk of payments should be made in June. If what I have said is in any way at variance with the current position I will let the honourable member know. 
I thought I had already indicated that any measures for which the Government takes responsibility have been directed so far towards the economy as a whole and not specially towards the housing industry which has been affected, as other industries have, with the application of these measures. 1 know of no ready mechanism by which interest rates - which after all are applied not by the Government but by the banking system and within the recommendations of the Reserve Bank - can be applied unevenly in different parts of the country. T could imagine that many enterprising gentlemen would transfer funds to another State if they could operate at a much higher interest rate in that State. All kinds of complicated effects might set in. 
As it happens, I have asked the Governor of the Reserve Bank and our authorities generally to look into the extent to which measures which are generally applied to the Commonwealth as a whole are variable between States. Clearly there is a large area, particularly that of interest rates, in which it is very difficult to differentiate between one State and another. The state of affairs in every State is taken into consideration when general measures are applied. It is not possible for the whole banking system to vary conditions according to whatever prevails in particular areas. This is a difficult area, but one which is receiving attention. 
If the honourable member looks further into the qualifications of  Mr Hobart  I think he will find that they are extensive and that he has a good knowledge of the entire building industry. It is true that the commercial and industrial sector of the building industry is now rather harder pressed than the dwelling construction sector. The credit squeeze, so called by the honourable member, is merely the rise in interest rates charged by the banking system to relieve the tremendous pressure for loans on those bodies- 
Home building loans are not restricted. The whole system works as before. An incidental effect is that some costs by way of interest rates, particularly to home builders, have gone up and it is true that this situation is likely to exercise some restraining influence. It is also likely to have some effect in bringing the price of housing down and impeding the continuing rise in costs for dwelling construction. This is in the interests of all intending home purchasers. 
I deal with the last part of the question first. The Government's policy for the Budget of 1970-71 will not be brought before the House for some months. I have had my remarks run off and circulated to all honourable members. If the honourable member has any doubt about what I said and if he has not received a copy I will be pleased to supply him with one. 
To answer the remainder of h's question, I point out that the effect on the building industry is incidental to the general position. What I said was that in this last quarter, in which there always occurs annually and seasonally a tight liquidity situation, the Budget surplus emerging from last year's Budget would operate to restrict liquidity. The Government's action was not designed directly to have any effect on the housing industry. It was designed to restrain demand and excess of money over goods and services available over the whole of the community, of which the building industry is a part. If the honourable member wants any figures which he has not been able to find in the Budget papers or in my speech, he can put a question on the notice paper and I will supply the precise details. 
I move:  That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to bring the formula that determines the category entitlements of more senior members contributing under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act into line with the corresponding formula in the Superannuation Act. Between 1963 and 1969 the formulae in the 2 Acts were comparable, producing maximum pension entitlements tapering down from 70% of salary or pay for the lower paid members of each scheme to approximately 50% of salary or pay for members at the highest level. With effect from 4th June  1969 the  formula in the Superannuation Act was varied to produce a pension entitlement for staff at the highest level of approximately 60% of salary, if all available units were taken up on a contributory basis. 
The change now to be made to the formula in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act will have a similar effect. The change is to operate from 4th June 1969, the date from which (he Superannuation Act formula was varied. The change does, however, have some implications for the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
Unlike the superannuation scheme or that part of the defence forces retirement benefits scheme relating to members who entered the scheme before 4th December 1959, the contribution rates of members who have entered the scheme since that date, that is, post-1959 members, are fixed as percentages of pay. Consequently, the change in the formula and the resultant increases in entitlements of post- 1959 members in higher categories will not be matched by an increase in contributions to the Fund. 
Only the entitlements of officer members will be affected by the formula change. As the rates of contribution for post-1959 officer members have been determined separately from those applying to post-1959 other rank members, the contribution rates applicable to post-1 959 officer members will be examined in conjunction with the quinquennial investigation of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund as at 30th June 1969 to see whether there is a need to vary the rates because of the change in entitlement levels. As I said earlier, members who entered the scheme before 4th December 1959, that is, pre-1959 members, contribute on a different basis from those who have entered the scheme since that date. Since 1965, pre-1959 members have had the right, when faced with an increase in contributions, to elect to limit their contributions. Thereafter, additional category entitlements, when they become available, are granted without additional contributions, the benefit accruing from these additional entitlements being a proportion of the corresponding contributory benefit. 
Pre-1959 officer members who have not already exercised their right to limit contributions will be able to do so, if they wish, in respect of the additional contributions that will become payable in respect of the additional category entitlements flowing from the formula change. The Bill also extends this right to pre-1959 officers serving on 4th June 1969 who have since retired on pension or, if they have died, to their widows or orphan children to whom pensions are being paid. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1 969-70, the Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1969-70, the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1970-71, and the Supply Bill (No. 2) 1970- 71. Separate questions may be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
and (2) The information which the honourable member seeks is available in the Budget document 'Commonwealth Payments to or for the States' issued for each of the years 1964-65 to 1969-70. Copies of these publications are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
In the case of specific purpose payments of a revenue nature, the divergences between budget estimates and actual payments have not been signi ficant in the last 5 years, except tor natural disaster relief payments. The main reason for divergences in these payments arises from the fact that it is impossible to estimate the occurrence, duration and severity of such events at the beginning of the year. Natural disaster relief payments are also of significance in explaining differences between the estimates and actual payments  of  a capital nature. A further factor is that the large capital undertakings of the States which have been the subject of Commonwealth assistance tend to have uneven expenditure patterns arising from unforeseen circumstances. It is thus difficult for the Slates, on whose advice the estimates are based, to predict accurately the advances required in a particular year for the capital works involved. 
 I am aware of the price increases which have taken place and the general deleterious effect of inflationary forces. As the honourable member will have noticed, measures have been taken recently to endeavour to curb this inflation and to restore the economy to greater stability. Every action taken to restrain inflation has been criticised either expressly or impliedly by his colleagues. If honourable members believe that this can be cured without taking measures or without the interests of any individual in Australia being adversely affected, this is a very curious mode of thought. I have received a great number of representations about adjustments to superannuation funds. 1 saw the  chairman  of the retired Commonwealth superannuitants earlier this week at the initiative of my colleague the honourable member for Bradfield. I am aware of what is happening. I am sure also that other honourable members are aware of the deleterious effect of inflation on pension funds of all kinds - including, incidentally, the parliamentary fund - and generally its disruptive effects particularly in rural areas and on all those on fixed incomes, such as superannuitants. I hope that a little more thought for these people will lead honourable members opposite to take a less hostile attitude towards anti-inflationary measures. 
It is open under the law for any citizen to operate the laws as he can best to his advantage. 
Within the law. I would say that this is not confined just to companies or the particular people to whom the honourable member has referred. A great number of individuals, some of whom may be in this House, use every device they can to lower their tax bill. The Commissioner of Taxation and the taxation machine generally are constantly on the alert to prevent loss to the revenue by various tax dodging devices. Naturally these are being invented all the time by very ingenious gentlemen and it is not possible to keep up with their pace. The taxation law inevitably moves a little behind events. However, if the honourable member has any good practical suggestions and examples which we could bring in quickly I should certainly be very delighted for the information that he can provide. The general position is understood by all. But chatter about the general position does not help the job of collecting necessary taxation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is assumed that the reference to so-called rationing schemes' relate; to changes in War Service Homes arrangements implemented in 1951 and 1962 to ensure. that the funds appropriated for War Service Homes were used as far as possible for the provision of homes in accordance with the purpose of the Scheme rather than to improve the position of those already owning a home. These changes were: 
In 1951, the suspending of advances for the discharge of an existing mortgage on a home already owned by the applicant except where the mortgage or charge was arranged with prior ..approval or in special cases of great hardship; and 
In 1962, the limiting of additional advances - to the provision of essential extra accomodation and the installation of basic utility services. 
Any estimate of the present cost of re-introducing the forms of assistance suspended in 1951 and 1962 must necessarily be tentative because of the many variables involved; subject to this important qualification, the cost in the first full year is estimated at $20 million. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. There are no statistics which directly classify wage earners into these categories. Any estimates relating to a recent period would have to be based on a number of assumptions and judgments applied to particulars of movements and levels of earnings and award rates, together with either income tax statistics of grade (by size) of actual income or with the results of the special survey conducted by the Commonwealth Statistician in October 1965 showing estimated numbers of adult male employees in earning groups (by size). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, see my answer of 16th April 1970 to Question No. 525 asked by the Honourable Member. 
The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has made numerous references to the fact that it takes into consideration movements in national productivity. For example, in the reasons for decision diven on 12th September 1966 in the case of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia and others and General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd the Commission said : 
It is of course a fact that the Commission does pay serious regard to the trends in national productivity when fixing national standards which we consider to be preferable, and fairer to all, than to attempt . . . individual assessments embracing separate employers or even separate industries. It seems to us impossible and unjust for the Commission to attempt to mix the two concepts - national and individual.' 
In its reasons for decision in the National Wage Case 1969 the Commission said: 
The increase we propose is above the trend line movements in national productivity . . . ' and under the heading 'Principles of wage fixation' the Commission made the observation: 
Each award of the Commission will each year be brought up to date for economic consideration (including regard to movements in prices and productivity) by the decision of the national wage bench. . . . ' 
Approximate estimates of national productivity as distinct from productivity in a particular industry are made on the basis of the Commonwealth Statistician's estimates of trends in gross national product at constant prices and in the work force and are made available to the Commission by the Commonwealth during cases of national importance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that during the years ended June 1968 and 1969 and for the period July 1969-February 1970, all imports of pig meat in carcass or processed form were recorded under the item ham and pork shoulders' except for 15 lb of bacon, ham and other pig meat, salted in brine, dried or smoked', valued at$1 3, which were recorded as imported from Hong Kong during the eight months ended February 1970. 
He has supplied the following table showing details of imports of 'ham and pork shoulders' for the year ended 30 June 1968 and 1969 and forthe eight months ended February 1970. 
First of all 1 would point out that the statement to which the honourable member referred was in relation to the rate of increase in retail prices, which for the March quarter was running at the annual rate of about 4%. I would not regard a movement in prices per se as necessarily a proper measure of inflation but I did point out that this was the largest increase in any March quarter since 1953 and was a reflection of events which had happened somewhat earlier. Even at this stage there is undoubtedly a train of causation which may well bring about even higher prices notwithstanding anything else that may happen. As to the general effect of the economic measures about which the honourable member also asked me, I would say first of all that the seasonal pattern in Australia is that of tight liquidity in the last quarter of the year - April, May and June - the period we are about half way through at the moment. It so happens that for the past 2 years this normal seasonal movement has been overlaid by a large inflow of money from overseas. This year this inflow is running at a much lower level and is not affecting the situation in the same way. Therefore it is to be expected that there will be a very illiquid situation in the last quarter of the financial year. After that period there is normally a bit of a flat period, in July and August, and then the process tends to reverse itself. 
Most prudent financial controllers of institutions engaged in various kinds of activity which depend upon borrowed funds do allow in their calculations for the fact that normally this is a very tight money season. As for the duration of it, the normal process is that it eases after the turn. 
Referring now to economic measures, these are to be distinguished in 2 parts. One measure taken recently was the increase in interest rates by the banking system. Also, of course, there has been an increase in interest rates arising from the excessive demand for money. The various demands for money from different sectors have built up a pressure which reinforces one sector after another. We have reached a point where Australia docs not turn out sufficient goods and services to match the increasing money supply. It is essential to bring supply and demand factors more into balance. While this position lasts we have a potential inflationary situation continually building up. 
Japan's expected very large surplus on international account in the near future has given the Japanese policy makers a good deal of scope for new moves. In fact, when I was in Japan recently, I discussed a move which was then being foreshadowed. The Japanese Government was considering allowing for the first time Japanese interests to make portfolio investments on outside stock exchanges. Naturally I expressed the hope that these might include Australian stock exchanges. Since then - I think it was on 1st May - a policy has been announced which will allow Japanese trust companies, which are holders of enormous funds, to invest SI 00m on overseas stock exchanges. The honourable members who have seen the reports on this will have noticed that the stock exchanges specified include New York, London, Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich, maybe one or two more in Europe, Toronto and Sydney. Following this announcement, it is to be hoped that with this extra scope they will invest some of their funds in Australia. 
The indication I received from the various bankers and folk I met in Japan in the short space of time that l was there was that most of the funds were likely to go to New York and London. But now that the process has started it is to be hoped that it will expand. Japan may, of course, invest funds in Australia along the same lines as any other overseas investors. We have quite a governmental machine in Japan to open the way for this process. Apart from bodies such as the Japan-Australia Businessmen's Association there are institutions like Partnership Pacific, which is a private banking combination. In Tokyo itself the Department of Trade and Industry has a large establishment. Recently a senior Treasury officer was also established there and he has built up quite a network of connections with the Finance Ministry and various banking and other official institutions. 
This suggestion does open up the wide field of established income tax law practice. If the honourable member will submit to me the details of his suggestion and the changes that he would propose, I will have his suggestion examined in detail and also will submit it at the appropriate time with other recommended changes in taxation law in connection with the Budget. 1 would ask the honourable member, if he intends doing this, that it be done with expedition. 
As with so many other matters, this matter is not quite as simple as it appears on the surface. It so happens that a good many primary producers do have a taxable income from their non-farming activities that is greater than their taxable income from farming activities. Their farm income in the first place is written down considerably for taxation purposes by very numerous deductions for primary production which the Government has built up over the years in the taxation laws. 
In many cases, people whose whole lives are spent on farms and farming properties do gain greater income out of some outside investment than they do out of farming income per se. This is particularly so at the moment. A large number of people who may be thought of nominally as Pitt Street farmers are in fact genuine full time primary producers who have been unfortunate particularly in the last few years not to earn as much income from this strenuous activity as they have from a perhaps limited number of investments which they have been able to acquire. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information previously supplied on securities on issue, annual interest liability and capital repayments has been consolidated and brought up to date in the following tables: 
As the House may well realise, we are the fourth largest contributor of capital to the Asian Development Bank. We have a great interest in it. Very shortly I will be bringing before the House a Bill to make a donation to its special funds of a further $10m. The  President  of this allegedly inefficient Bank happens to be a long standing personal friend of mine. He is a man of great talent and he has on his staff a number of extremely efficient, dedicated and able Australians, many of whom I met during the recent annual meeting. I am quite sure it is a most efficient and well run institution. I noticed, as did other delegates, that certain remarks were passed by this Congressman during our meeting at Seoul. The honourable member will be well aware that there are in every assembly, even in this one, a number of loose nuts. I would suggest to the honourable member- 
I also suggest that there are one or two members of popular assemblies who are more interested in headlines than the facts. I do not know of the particular circumstances experienced by this Congressman, but I would imagine that probably some of his hosts have been a little too kind to him by virtue of his office and he has been misled by some superficial aspects of hospitality which have nothing to do with the serious running of this great institution. 
 I noted that some of the terminating building societies had increased their rates, but these are hot directly equated lo the bond rate. The increase in the bond rate is a direct result of the Commonwealth's being unable to raise long term funds at 6%. Consequently we have established a rate at which we may have much better prospects of raising money. The terminating building societies establish their rates quite separately. I would think that -as societies borrow substantially from banks this would be reflected in their lending rate. However, like other sectors of the market, building societies have to raise their funds in accordance wilh the rate at which lenders will provide money. I have no specific plans to deal with one particular context of interest rates: these rates will take their place with the rest. As I said, building societies will raise their funds according to the price that their lenders charge. 
The Government naturally will consider any serious, well thought out views about taxation which are put to it. If this body, or any other body, would like to work hard on the problems involved and submit its ideas to me I certainly will examine them. 
The normal seasonal pattern for liquidity is that in the last quarter of the financial year when tax income to the Government greatly exceeds outpayments there is a loss of liquidity which lasts just for that quarter. The normal pattern thereafter is that as soon as tax refunds begin, just after the close of the financial year, over the following few months, up to $400m is pumped back into the economy. As the new financial year proceeds the former liquidity pattern gradually tends to re-establish itself. I would expect the normal seasonal factors to be at work this year. 
It is of course elementary commonsense that the quantity of suitable urban land available is strictly fixed. On one hand- 
The honourable member did not specify which measures when he asked me his question. Certainly, there has been some psychological reaction to the measures taken and the other things which have been said. But, normally, economic phenomena do take considerable time to work themselves out and the total result is by no means clear as yet. 
There is a general provision in the taxation law which covers both men and women without discrimination as to sex. Either, living alone, employing a fulltime housekeeper to look after children below the age of 16 years, is entitled to a deduction. However, as the honourable member for Shortland mentioned by way of interjection, he asked me a question along similar lines last week. I would be grateful if the honourable member would set out the circumstances which he wishes me to look into. I will examine the facts and proceed as he has asked. 
In relation to employment statistics, 1 certainly do not recognise in the honourable member's question anything akin to what my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, or any other competent authority has said. What was noticeable was that the pressure had become rather less intense. This is very natural as we reach up to and beyond the ceiling of employment. When so few people are unemployed in the whole of Australia, the rate of absorption is almost bound to diminish just through physical factors, but I would certainly not read the statistics in the way the honourable member suggests. 
in reply - I thank the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who led for the Opposition, for supporting the project outlined in the Bill. Of course, in the final analysis the project is, from Australia's point of view, quite simple. It is a way of increasing Australia's liquidity in the international system. I take it that this subject is dear to 
15361/70- -R - (961 
the hearts of honourable members on both sides of the chamber but no more so than to the heart of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I should point out to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  that a good deal has been said about the increase in quotas. If he would like me to provide any specific information on this subject I will be only too pleased to do so. I would appreciate the interest of all honourable members in this subject, which certainly helps to form a national view and back a sound continuity of policy. If there is any specific way in which I can better inform honourable members I would be pleased to do so. I thank the Opposition for its support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The levels of existing Commonwealth Superannuation Fund pensions are usually examined at Budget time each year and adjustments are made from time to time. 
On the last three occasions on which adjustments were made- in 1961, 1963 and 1967- the notional salary method' was adopted. Broadly, under this method the Commonwealth's or employer's share of pension being paid at a selected date (30th June 1967 for the 1967 increases) was increased to the amount that would have been payable had the pensioner retired at that date and not the date of his actual retirement. 
Since 30th June 1967, the salaries of all officers and employees of the Public Service have been increased by the application of 3 annual National Wage Case decisions, and/or separate pay reviews of specific employment groups. The magnitude of this salary movement varies both between employment groups and within a specific group. The followi'ng table shows the order of movement at 4 levels in the clerical/administrative group of the Third Division of the Public Service: 
The Consumer Price Index increased by 8.4 between the June quarter 1967 and the March quarter 1970. It should be noted that the Consumer Price Index is not a 'cost of living' index as such because it does not measure changes in cost of living that result directly from changes in the mode or level of living. (See the Commonwealth Statistician's comments on this in the Labor Report (No. 52) for 1965 and 1966). 
Yes, subject to certain conditions that were provided for in the Superannuation Act (No. 2) 1969. 
This is a matter of policy and will be considered at an appropriate time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen a report of the address. 
Interest rates on first mortgage housing loans made by major lenders for housing are significantly below 9% - for example, rates charged by savings banks fall within the range 61-7% and rates charged by building societies fall predominantly within the range 6i-7i%, with terminating societies tending to lend at the lower end of the range and permanent societies at the upper end. 
Matters pertaining to the provisions of housing finance are under constant surveillance by the Government and due consideration is given to proposals of the kind put forward in Professor Downing's paper. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has already undertaken to ease the burden of personal income tax on lower and middle income groups. 
In the course of the studies which are being made into this matter, attention is being given to taxation developments in other countries, including Canada. 
Yes, I shall be meeting a delegation from this area, which is closely associated with the honourable member's electorate. He has been very interested for some considerable time in this exercise. Without trying to foreshadow what is said on this occasion, representations put to me by a delegation which puts its position seriously and clearly are given careful consideration. 
The question is clearly one which ought to be put on the notice paper in view of the information it seeks. 
by leave - Honourable members may recall that . on 6th May last, in reply to a question without notice, 
I informed the House that arrangements for distributing the surplus assets of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund to eligible contributors were near completion and that the bulk of the payments should be made some time this months. 1 have now been informed by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board that payments will commence next week. The surplus assets now being distributed were disclosed by an investigation of the Fund carried out by the Commonwealth Actuary in respect of the 5-year period from 1st July 1959 to 30th June 1964. An amount approximating Sim has already been distributed to over 5,600 eligible pensioners. The amount now to be distributed to some 20,000 eligible contributors is in excess of S5m. Payment will be made to those eligible contributors who are still members by cheque through their pay stations or through Sub-Treasuries, unless they are serving in Malaysia or Vietnam, in which case payment will be either in cash or by paybook credit. For those who are no longer serving, payment will be by cheque through the Department of Social Services, if the person is now a pensioner, or otherwise by cheque through the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board. I should again mention that not all contributors to the Fund are entitled to participate in the distribution. The persons who will benefit are being notified through their Service department or directly by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board. 
1 do not necessarily agree that the statement of the honourable member is accurate. What happened in the case of academic salaries was that the State governments did request the Commonwealth to appoint  Mr Justice  Eggleston to go into the question of these salaries. That report has now been sent to the various State Premiers together with the Commonwealth's agreement that if the States - and this is a matter at the discretion of the State Premiers who have not yet hadtime to reply - choose to adopt the recommendation the Commonwealth will stand behind them financially. I understand that  Mr Justice  Eggleston has recommended that the result of a national wage case should be applied to academic salaries. This is quite the customary way of handling Public Service and allied salaries. 
Yes, I realise that, but I will explain it in this way: What  Mr Justice  Eggleston has recommended for academic salaries normally applies to awards for people actually in work. The other payments to which the honourable member referred - that is, superannuation, pensions and other schemes of this kind - so far have never been fixed in this way but have been adjusted in the context of the. annual Budget. This has been the regular means of varying them. I could not predict what would happen in the next Budget or when any change will be made in these other payments. 
 As I pointed out in my answer to the honourable member for Bradfield, these matters have always been dealt with consistently in a quite different manner. National wage case decisions have been systematically applied to public, servants, members of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and others concerned who are actively engaged in work. Their salaries and payments are adjusted in accordance with the national wage decisions as, indeed, are those of the bulk of the wage and salary earning folk throughout the country. Regarding superannuitants and the others mentioned by the honourable member. their entitlements are fixed from year to year at the time of the Budget. At this stage I know of no immediately impending change in this practice which has been adopted by the House for a very long time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table up-dates the information provided by my predecessor on 24 September 1969 concerning interest rates and monthly repayments for housing loans. The table sets out what art understood to be typical periods for loans from the various institutions, the interest rates charged (or the predominant rates) in 1949 and April 1970 and monthly repayments per $1,000, assuming a credit foncier arrangement (i.e. equal monthly repayments to cover both principal and interest), with interest charged half-yearly. Except for the War Service Homes Division there is a range of interest rates for each group; for example, in April 1970 the range for savings banks was from 6-J-7 per cent. The figures should, therefore, be taken as a guide only. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is insufficient information available for meaningful answers to be given to these questions. Any estimates that could be made would. necessarily be subject to a wide margin of error. 
The table below shows the estimated value of home loans outstanding in March 1970 of the major institutional lenders for housing, together with the predominant rales of interest charged by these institutions on new loans granted in 1949 and 1970. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes, except that the two positions include other duties in addition to those mentioned by the honourable member. 
Any decision by the Government to introduce amendments to the Act or Regulations would be announced at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
In regard to the information sought on the amounts advanced in housing loans by (a) terminating and (b) permanent building societies in each Stale, the Commonwealth Statistician has advised that official statistics of the activities of permanent and terminating building societies by State are now available for 1967-68 and that some of the figures for earlier years provided on 26th September 1969 have since been revised. The statistics shown below refer to loans paid over during the financial years of societies ending in the years shown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As suited in my reply to the honourable member of 23 April 1970, the borrowings of individual authorities under the 'Gentlemen's Agreement' of the Australian Loan Council are not available for publication other than by the State or the authority concerned. However, Queensland authorities have agreed to release the information that a special borrowing allocation of $1,920,000 was approved by the Loan Council for the Brisbane City Council over the period 1962-63 to 1964-65 to finance a sewerage project in the Wynnum-Manly area. 
The answer to the honourable member's  uestion  is as follows: 
For the purpose of distribution of the. surplus assets in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund, an actuarial basis was used to calculate the payment to be made to or in respect of each eligible pensioner. In these calculations, the share of an eligible pensioner was determined by reference to the contributions actually made and a variety of. other factors including the age and marital status of the pensioner, the type of pension received and variations in rates of mortality. Since Christmas, 1969, distribution of the surplus assets has continued and it is expected that the total entitlement will be $1,051,812 to be distributed to over 5,600 eligible pensioners. 
The average payment is approximately $185. 
and (4) The information sought is not available as rank was not (he basis for any part of the calculations used to establish entitlements. 
Taxation  (Question No. 43S) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest available statistics of the total amount of deductions allowed in income lax assessments of individuals on account of - 
contributions to hospital and medical benefit funds; 
net medical expenses; and 
gifts to public benevolent institutions, etc., and the years to which these statistics relate are as follows - 
Whether portability of pensions should be extended is a matter of considerable controversy and difference of opinion. What might be called the enlightened - if that is the word - movement is towards making pensions more portable and for individuals to be able to carry their rights from job to job during their working lives and either collect benefits in separate funds which are actually assessed and which will support them eventually in their old age, or to move from one pension fund to another. This is a matter of opinion. A good many people, particularly some employing groups which offer superannuation schemes as an inducement to staff to spend a long time with them rather than to move continually, would feel against it. On the other hand, there is a need for certain flexibility and movement in the labour field and this, of course, is promoted and helped by growing portability of pensions. 
As far as the growth funds linked with life policies are concerned, this again is a matter of considerable controversy. In Britain, for instance, and many other countries this is regarded as a wonderful hedge against inflation so that as this amount is accumulated during life it will be used in an effective way to increase the benefits. Others see it as a very risky form of investment. But these are 2 questions that I do not feel I could resolve. 
It is really a question of how long and how late the House is prepared to sit. The honourable member will appreciate readily that this proposal involves a great deal of actuarial calculation, lt has been worked on pretty hard and consistently. I would hope to bring the legislation in shortly. In view of the length of the current session and the desire of most honourable members to bring it to a close - at least I trust that that is the desire of most honourable members - I would not guarantee that I could introduce it this week or next week. 
 by leave - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the monetary benefits provided by the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act 1930-69. As honourable members know provisions to increase the monetary benefits were included in the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill 1970 that I introduced on 19th March last. That Bill which dealt with other matters as well as monetary benefits was withdrawn yesterday to make way for this Bill and will be reintroduced at a later time suitably varied to take account of the situation that has emerged. Honourable members will recall that at the conclusion of my second reading speech on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970 on 19th March I said that the Government's mind was not closed so far as that Bill was concerned and that we stood prepared to consider on their merits suggestions for amendment during its passage. We already have under consideration at this time a number of suggestions from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and we also expect to receive suggestions from other sources such as the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Because consideration of the various suggestions will preclude the passage of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill before the end of the current session, the Government has decided to introduce this rates Bill now with a view to its being passed this session so that payment of compensation at the increased rates already announced can be commenced at an early date. 
Under the Bill the basic lump sum benefit is being increased from 810,000 to $12,000 and the minimum payment for a dependent child of a deceased employee from $200 to $280. The minimum payment of $1,650, below which the basic lump sum death benefit may not be reduced if an. employee received a lump sum payment before his death, is increased to $2,000. The Bill provides for the weekly payment in incapacity cases to be increased from $28.15 to $31.80 for an adult employee without dependants and the weekly dependant supplements pf $6.80 and $2.50 for a dependent wife and each dependent child under 16 years of age to be increased to $7.70 and $2.80 respectively. The weekly payment for an employee who is a minor is increased from $21.10 to $23.85. The present maximum lump sum payment for the more serious specified injuries is increased by the Bill from SI 0,000 to $12,000. The benefits for the less serious specified injuries will automatically increase in the same proportion. The maximum amount of compensation that may be paid in respect of any one accident to an employee who is not totally and permanently incapacitated is also increased from $10,000 to $12,000 in line with the increases in the basic lump sum death benefit and the maximum payment for a specified injury. I commend the Bill to the House and express the hope that it will be given a speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
(12.45] - by leave - 1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Trust has been engaged for some time in a review of the parliamentary retiring allowances scheme and last year invited suggestions from members of that scheme. Earlier this year the Trust considered the various suggestions put forward by members and reached conclusions on some of them. Examination of others is proceeding. As well, the Trust considered other aspects of the parliamentary and ministerial schemes that have been the subject of representations and suggestions in recent years. The amendments being made to the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act by this Bill result in the main from the Government's consideration of the proposals that have so far come forward from the Trust. The Bill removes those provisions in section 21 of the Act that require the reduction of pension when the person in receipt of pension is receiving remuneration as the holder of an office under, or from employment by, the Commonwealth or a State or an authority of the Commonwealth or a State. This change will bring the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act more into line with the Superannuation and the Defence Forces 
Retirement Benefits Acts from which corresponding re-employment provisions were removed in 1965 and has been the subject of representations by members of the Parliament over a long period. 
The provisions requiring reduction of pension if the pensioner receives salary or pension as a member or former member of a State parliament or as a State Minister, or cancellation of pension if he is re-elected to the Commonwealth Parliament are, however, retained. Under both the parliamentary and ministerial schemes male and female members contribute at the same rate. Whereas the widow of a male contributor or pensioner may at her option receive either a pension or a lump sum payment, the widower of a married female contributor or pensioner is not so entitled, the only benefit being a lump sum payment not to the widower but to the estate of the deceased. The Bill provides for the benefits for a widower in future to be the same as for a widow. Under the ministerial scheme, unless the 3 occasions rule applies, 8 years service as a Minister, the  President  of the Senate, the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives or the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives is necessary to qualify for pension. In the case of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives who contribute atone half the Ministers' rate. 16 years service is necessary to qualify for pension while the qualifying period for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, who contributes at one quarter of the Ministers' rate is 32 years. In future these other officeholders, while continuing to contribute at a reduced rale will qualify for pension from the Ministerial Fund after 8 years service. However, for the purpose of ascertaining the rate of pension payable, service as Leader or  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate or as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives will be placed in the same position as are the contributions of those office-holders. For example, a member who has completed 8 years service as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives will qualify for a 4-year pension under the expanded pension scale provided in the Bill. The Bill also extends the 3 occasions rule to these other office-holders. 
At present a person who ceases to be an office-holder and does not qualify for pension is not entitled to a refund of his contributions to the Ministerial Fund until such time as he leaves the Parliament. The Bill modifies this provision so that the Trust may, on the written application of a former office-holder still serving in the Parliament, determine that there are special circumstances that justify an immediate payment of a refund. 
Investigations as to  the state and sufficiency of both the Parliamentary and Ministerial Funds are required to bc made at intervals of not more than 7 years. The first investigation of the Ministerial Fund is not due until 30th June 1972 and the next investigation of the Parliamentary Fund need not bc made until 30th June 1973. In view of the nature of the funds it has been decided that investigations should be made concurrently and at more frequent intervals. The Bill accordingly provides for investigations of both funds to be made as at 30th June 1970 and thereafter at intervals of not more than three years. The remaining provisions of the Bill are concerned with machinery and drafting amendments. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
12.53 - by leave - ] move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks parliamentary approval to borrowings by the Commonwealth of up to $ US 100m for the purchase of general defence equipment in the United Slates. Under the Loan (Defence) Act 1966. the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US450m to assist in the purchase of defence equipment in the United States. Those borrowings were almost completely committed by orders placed up to last December, and the Government wishes to make provision under the present Bill for further borrowings to finance orders placed from the beginning of this year for additional purchases of defence equipment in the United States. The loans arranged under the 1966 Act were all with the ExportImport Bank of the United States. They were used for the purchase of general defence equipment and for some payments on the F111 aircraft. 
The Loan (Defence) Act 1968 provided for the boro wing by the Commonwealth of a further $US75m to assist in financing the purchase of F111 aircraft. No drawings have yet been made against that loan and the borrowings to be made under the new proposed Act will therefore not be used to finance any payments on the F1 1 1 aircraft. It is expected that the Export-Import Bank of the United States will provide the loan funds to be raised under this legislation. We are at present negotiating with the Bank for this purpose, and the Bill has been drafted to provide authority for the Commonwealth to accept the usual provisions of Export-Import Bank loan agreements. Since the borrowing is for defence purposes the approval of the Australian Loan Council is not required. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.56 to 2 p.m. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a  second  time. 
This Bill should be read in conjunction with the States Receipts Duty Bill (No. 1) 1970, the States Receipts Duty Bill (No. 2) 1970, the States Receipts Duty Bill (No. 3) 1970 and the States Grants (Receipts Duty) Bill 1970 which I shall be introducing shortly. The purpose of the group of 5 Bills is to provide the legislative framework for the imposition by the Commonwealth, at the request of the States and for their benefit, of a duty on business receipts so as to achieve the general result that the States do not lose revenue as a consequence of the High Court decisions invalidating the receipts duty legislation of the States in its application to certain types of receipts. 
The Commonwealth has long accepted that, when the States are faced with large abnormal budgetary difficulties through circumstances beyond their control, it may be necessary for the Commonwealth to consider special measures of assistance. Accordingly, when the High Court decision in the Hamersley case cast doubt on the constitutional validity of the receipts duty legislation of the States in its application to certain types of receipts, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  indicated last September that the Commonwealth would see that the States did not lose revenue in 1969-70 in the event that this doubt was confirmed. At a special Premiers Conference held an 18th November 1969 to consider the position, the Premiers said that the States had expected to receive a total of about $70m in 1969-70 from their receipts duties. About $40m of this revenue was estimated to come from duty on the proceeds of sale of goods - the area that was considered most likely to be held invalid. The Premiers estimated that, if the States' receipts duties were discontinued altogether, the loss of revenue to the States in 1969-70 would be up to $50m. It was recognised that, if there were a substantial revenue loss and no replacement tax were introduced, the inflationary effects on the economy would be severe. The outcome of the Conference was a request by the Premiers, to which the Commonwealth agreed, that in the event of the receipts duty of the States being found invalid in some or all respects, the Commonwealth should introduce legislation, with operation retrospectively to 18th November 1969, to impose a like tax for the benefit of the States. 
At a further Premiers Conference held on 26th February 1970 following the High Court decisions given on the previous day, the Premiers requested, and the Commonwealth agreed, that the Commonwealth legislation should have continuing operation beyond 30th June 1970. It was also agreed that the Commonwealth legislation should apply only to business receipts, which are the receipts in respect of which the great bulk of the invalid area of the existing receipts duty legislation of the States falls. 
The 5 Bills give effect to the arrangements I have outlined. The legislation is being introduced at the request of the States and for their benefit, with the proceeds of duty collections under the legislation being payable to the States as section 96 grants. Before proceeding to outline the contents of the legislation, I feel I must strongly emphasise the importance, particularly in view of existing demand pressures in the economy, of ensuring that there is not at this stage any substantial loss in budgeted revenue collections such as would occur if the Commonwealth did not legislate on the basis requested by the States. In this connection I might mention that the Premiers have indcated that, in the absence of Commonwealth legislation to impose receipts duty where it is in the nature of an excise, the States would be unlikely to be able to impose receipts duty where it is not in the nature of an excise. in these circumstances, it would clearly be dangerously irresponsible to allow a retrospective reduction in tax revenues at the rate of some $70m per annum. 
The legislation will, in accordance with the arrangements I have outlined, have retrospective applicaton to 18th November 1969. However, provision is made for an exemption from liability to duly under Commonwealth law if State duty - whether or not validly imposed - has been paid, .or within a specified t me is paid, under State law in respect of receipts during a transitional period from 18th November 1969 until a date to be proclaimed under the Commonwealth legislation. Receipts specifically exempted under thc provis'ons of existing State Acts - or to which these Acts do not. validly or invalidly. extend - will also not be liable to duty under the Commonwealth legislation during the transitional period. 
The effect of this in the case of Queensland warrants special mention. The rate of duty under the Commonwealth legislation will be lc in SIO, or 0.1%. This is the rate applying under the State legislation at present in operation in all States other than Queensland. In Queensland, the rate at present in operation is 2c in $100, or 0.02%. A practical effect of the provision I have referred to is that, for receipts in Queensland during the transitional period, there will be no liability for duty under the Commonwealth law if duty is paid to Queensland at the lower rate or if the receipt is under $20 and for that reason not subject to Queensland duty. From the end of the transitional period the combined effect of the Commonwealth legislation and legislation already passed by the Queensland Parliament will be that the rate on receipts dutiable under either law will be the same its in other States - that is, lc in $10. 
The Commonwealth's approach to the legislation before the House has been that, as it is being introduced at the request of the States and for their benefit, with the Commonwealth acting in a sense as agent for the States for the purpose, it has been essentially for the States collectively to say what detailed provisions should be included in the Commonwealth legislation within the framework of the agreed arrangements. Accordingly, the detailed provisions have been agreed collectively with the Slate governments. This has necessitated a large amount of give and take as between the various States because the Commonwealth legislation must of course apply uniformly in all States and there are innumerable differences in the detailed provisions of the existing legislation of each of the Stales. To a large degree it has been a matter of achieving an amalgam, acceptable to the States collectively, of the varying provisions of the existing State legislation. 
After the Commonwealth legislation conies into effect the States will continue to impose receipts duty on those receipts that remain validly taxable under their own legislation and to the extent that they are not subject to duty under the Commonwealth legislation. Queensland is so far the only State to have taken legislative action for its receipts duty to conform to this pattern. The other States intend to do so when they can. Until they do, they will take the administrative steps necessary to ensure that no double duty arises after the date when the Commonwealth legislation comes into effect. 1 understand that State governments that have not already made this clear will be making announcements on this point. The numerous differences - many of detail but some of substance - between the provisions of existing legislation of the individual Stales have made it unavoidable that the provisions of the Commonwealth legislation do not in all respects coincide with those of any of the States. Within the practical limits, however, the endeavour of the Commonwealth and the States has been, so far as taxpayers are concerned, to restore as nearly as possible the position that would have applied if receipts duty had continued to be imposed wholly under State legislation. 
This has been the aim both as to liability for duty and to arrangements for its payment. While the Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation will be responsible for the general administration of the Commonwealth legislation, the day to day administration will continue to be carried out by State officers in conjunction with their administration of the State legislation. Duty under the Commonwealth legislation will be payable only through the lodgment of periodical returns and not through the stamping of receipts. The returns, accompanied by payments of duty, will be lodged with State officers who, for the purposes of the Commonwealth legislation, will be appointed as collectors of receipts duties for their respective States. In practice, the return period for each taxpayer will generally be the period applicable for purposes of State law. For a business that has not been lodging State returns, the return period will be 1 month or such other period as is determined on a basis appropriate to the particular case. 
Where a taxpayer during a return period receives money that is subject to duty under Commonwealth law and also receives money that is subject to duty under State law or - and I would expect there to be few cases of this kind - receives money part of which is subject to Commonwealth duty and part of which ls subject to State duty, the taxpayer will be able to furnish to the appropriate collector of receipts duties the one return showing separately the amounts subject to duty under Commonwealth and State laws. Payment of the one amount in satisfaction of the total liability to the duty under the two laws will be accepted. 
As I have already indicated, the application of the Commonwealth legislation will be limited to the taxation of what I have broadly referred to as business receipts. Subject to specified exemptions, duty will be payable under Commonwealth law in respect of money received, or deemed to have been received, in Australia by a person in the course of carrying on a business in a State. Carrying on a business will, for the purpose of the legislation, have its ordinary general meaning and will include engagement in a trade or profession, but not as an employee. 
All money received - or deemed by the legislation to be received - by a company residing, or carrying on a business, in a State, will be regarded as being received in the course of carrying on business. This rule will also apply to partnerships, although there will be no liability to duty on amounts received by a partner from a partnership in his capacity of partner nor by a partnership from a partner in that capacity. A company is defined by the legislation to include incorporated and unincorporated bodies, but exemptions are provided for the receipts of a wide range of organisations such as unlicensed clubs, charitable institutions, prescribed marketing authorities and prescribed public authorities. Provision is also made for rebates of duty where the duty has been paid on moneys received but subsequently repaid. This may occur where, for example, repayments are made of money that has been paid as a tender deposit or for goods that are later returned to the seller. 
The legislation contains special provisions relating to principals and agents, including solicitors and their clients. The broad purpose of these provisions is to ensure that the interposition of an agent in arrangements for payment of money by one person to another does not cause any greater liability to arise than would accrue if the payments were made directly. As is the case under the receipts duty legislation of the majority of the States, the primary liability for duty will fall on the agent rather than the principal. There are, however, likely to be cases where it will be more convenient to the parties for the principal, and not the agent, to pay duty on amounts received by the agent on behalf of the principal. Provision is made in the legislation for the principal to arrange that, subject to administrative approval, the primary liability for the duty may be transferred to him in these cases. 
Under the Commonwealth legislation duty will be imposed on money received in Australia in the course of carrying on a business in a State, and the amount of section 96 grants payable to each State will be the amount of duty collected in respect of money received in that State. However, one arrangement included at the request of the States is that, where goods or services are supplied in one State but payment for them is received in another State or in an internal or external territory or overseas, the receipts are to be included in a return lodged, and duty is to be payable, in the State in which the goods or services are supplied. Goods will be regarded as being supplied at the place where the property in them passes. One effect of these provisions is that, while duty is not being imposed in the territories, avoidance of duty by arrangements designed to take advantage of that fact should substantially be prevented. 
A person will be regarded as having received money irrespective of whether the receipt is in the form of cash, or of cheques, other bills of exchange or promissory notes. However, a transaction that is merely an equal exchange of money for money - for example, the cashing of a cheque or the exchange of notes for coins - will not be treated as a receipt of money by either party. Payments by a person into his current or savings bank account and withdrawals by him from such an account are also exempt. 
There are circumstances in which a person will be regarded as havi ng received money for the purposes of the legislation, although in a strict sense he may not have done so. A deposit by a person to the bank account of another person, or a debit of an amount against a person's bank account transferred to the credit of another person, will be treated as a receipt of money by the other person. So too will the receipt by a creditor of a consideration other than money in the settlement of a debt or part of a debt. Money will also be deemed to have been received by a creditor where his debtor does not pay him in cash but instead, with his authority, credits him with the amount of the debt or part of it. 
In common with other Commonwealth taxing legislation, the legislation provides the machinery for a taxpayer dissatisfied with his liability as determined under the legislation to object against the liability assessed. If the objection is not allowed, the taxpayer may request a hearing by a taxation board of review and may appeal to the Hi gh 
Court from a decision of such a board as to any question of law involved. The legislation is so drafted that a person who wishes to dispute liability in this way may request the Commissioner to issue an assessment of duty so that he may have the matter with which he is dissatisfied considered by an independent tribunal. The enforcement provisions in the Bill are modelled on comparable provisions in other Commonwealth taxation laws. 
I have, in this introductory speech, explained the general background to and framework of the Commonwealth legislation, and in addition have attempted to indicate in brief and broad terms the main technical provisions embodied in the legislation. However, particularly in view of the complex nature of the legislation, I am having circulated to honourable members an explanatory memorandum setting out more detailed informati on on technical and procedural matters. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
1  2.23] -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Under section 55 of the Constitution, duties of customs, duties of excise and other duties are required to be imposed by separate laws. The purpose of the States Receipts Duty Bill (No.1) is to impose, for the benefit of the States, duty on certain receipts of money, to the extent that it is a duty of excise, at the rate of 0.1% of the money received. I explained the background and effect of the Bill, and the other Bills with which it is associated, in my second reading speech when introducing the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill 1970. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose, for the benefit of the States, duty on certain receipts of money, to the extent that it may be a duty of customs, at the rate of  0.1%  of the money received. I explained the background and effect of the Bill, and the other Bills with which it is associated, in my second reading speech when introducing the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill  1970.  I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose, for the benefit of the States, duty on certain receipts of money, to the extent that it is not a duty of excise or a duty of customs, at the rate of  0.1%  of the money received. I explained the background and effect of the Bill, and the other Bills with which it is associated, in my second reading speech when introducing the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill  1970.  I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the making of section  96  grants to the States of the amounts of receipts duties collected under the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill  1970,  the States Receipts Duty Bill (No.  1) 1970,  the States Receipts Duty Bill (No.  2) 1970  and the States Receipts Duty Bill (No.  3) 1970.  I explained the general effect of all  5  Bills, taken together, in my second reading speech when introducing the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill  1970.  There is not much more to be said in explanation of the Bill now before the House. The amounts to be paid as section  96  grants to each State will be the amounts of duty paid to the collector of receipts duties for that State in accordance with the provisions of the administration Bill. Payment of the grants to the States will be made at convenient regular intervals as agreed between the Commonwealth and the States. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I regret that I was unable to catch more than the general gist of the honourable member's question but I would attribute any decline in building commencements far less to changes in interest rates than to the physical difficulty of obtaining money. There are a number of factors affecting the building industry both as regards dwelling construction and the non-residential sector. I am not aware of the position so much in Western Australia but over a large part of Australia at the moment the building industrty is seriously jeopardised and plagued by industrial troubles which are adding considerably to the permanent cost structure. Some of the most serious troubles, of course, are in New South Wales and Victoria where there has been a prolonged strike of builders labourers. This is having a serious effect and bringing parts of the industry to a halt. Even though this is mainly, but not entirely, in the non-residential sector, its effects are certainly felt in the ordinary building sector. I do regret that members of the Australian Labor Party who are often very vocal in other respects seem to have an almost cynical disregard for this serious industrial trouble which is stimulated by others as well but in which a large part is being played by the followers of Peking Communism. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
It was estimated in the 1969-70 Budget that the Commonwealth would have a deficit amounting to $30m in the current financial year. At the time the Budget was introduced, it seemed probable that the amounts available from loan raisings in Australia and overseas and other financing transactions, which had amounted to $5 12m in 1968-69, would be more than sufficient to finance this estimated deficit. 
In statement No. 4 attached to the Budget Speech, it was explained that prospects for raising loans overseas seemed poorer than in 1968-69 and that prospects for net loan proceeds in Australia were affected by the fact that redemptions would probably be substantially greater than in 1968-69. At the same time, it was pointed out that it was not possible to estimate in advance with any degree of assurance net loan proceeds or the change in the Treasury note issue, as this would be affected by developments during the course of the year. In the event, it is now clear that net loan raisings overseas will be a great deal less than last year and that, as a result of the high level of redemptions, so too will be net loan proceeds in Australia. In addition, largely as a result of monetary conditions, it seems likely that there will be a substantial decline in the Treasury note issue. 
Although, on present indications, it appears that the deficit will be close to the Budget estimate, there is a possibility that the amount available from loan raisings and other financing transactions will not be sufficient to finance the deficit. The purpose of this Bill, which is in the nature of a precautionary measure, is to obtain authority to borrow from the Reserve Bank the amount required to complete the financing of the deficit in 1969-70, if this proves to be necessary, and to expend the proceeds of the borrowing for defence purposes. 
The amount to be borrowed from the Reserve Bank is, of course, a residual. It is the net result of all receipts, expenditures, borrowings and redemptions under other legislation approved by Parliament. Even at this late stage of the financial year, therefore, with large amounts of revenue still to be collected and expenditures still to be incurred and with fluctuations still possible in the volume of Treasury notes on issue, it is not possible to forecast with precision the amount which it may be necessary to borrow from the Reserve Bank to complete the financing of the deficit. Consequently, this Bill follows the practice introduced in 1968 under which no specific upper limit is set to the amount which might be borrowed under the legislation. Instead the Bill seeks authority to borrow such sums as the Treasurer considers to be the likely maximum amount necessary to complete the financing of the deficit. 
The borrowings for which authority is now sought will be made for defence purposes, and the proceeds of the borrowings will be applied to finance expenditure from the loan fund on defence services. The Bill is essentially a machinery measure to enable the Government to carry out policies approved under the various Acts authorising expenditure, the raising of revenue and financing transactions. In itself, the Bill does not authorise expenditures which have not already been authorised by Parliament. It provides for expenditure on defence services, which has already been authorised by Parliament in the Appropriation Acts, to be charged to the Loan Fund instead of to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Provision for charging part of our Defence expenditure to the Loan Fund has been made in previous years when the net amount available from loan proceeds and other financing transactions has not been adequate to finance the deficit. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see the answer to question No. 61. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following comparative statement is provided in answer to the honourable member's question. For simplicity, the statement sets out the position of Army personnel only, as was the case in the previous statement (Hansard, page 1881, 21st May 1965). The conditions applying to personnel in other branches of the Armed Forces of the countries concerned are similar. 
The speech which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has just made is a further example of his general economic enunciations: That certain things need to be done and it would be nice to do them; the provision of resources is easy - one just extends the amount of money available, presumably blowing up the currency further. This is a continuing chapter.  His  enunciation on expenditure indicates that it would be 10 times as lush as that of the most profligate Treasurer we have ever had. Let us look firstly at what has been the experience of local government authorities. The Leader of the Opposition assumes that local government bodies are starved, that they can do nothing, and that their financial basis is hopeless. Taking the total expenditures of local government authorities on a national accounting basis for 1959-60, the figure was S3 19m. For the year 1968-69 it was $68 Im. The annual increase enjoyed by local government authorities between 1959-60 and 1968- 69 was 8.8%. Correspondingly, the annual increase in the gross national product was 7.7%. 
Taking the period from 1964-65 onwards total local government authority expenditure has increased at an average rate of 8% per annum and so has the gross national product. Therefore, whatever may be said about the present position of local government authorities, the resources at their disposal have been rising steadily, Let us take the Australian Loan Council borrowing programmes for State governments and semi-governmental and local authorities. In the case of the larger authorities their expenditure has risen from $173.4m for 1959-60 to an estimated $372 for 1969- 70. The average annual rate  Df  increase for the 5 years from 1964-65 to 1.969-70 is 8.3%. If one looks at the smaller authorities one will see that their average expenditure has risen at a faster rate than that of the larger authorities. The smaller authorities which, under the Loan Council procedures are not subject to an overall limit in their borrowing, were able to borrow S33.9m in 1959-60. Last financial year this figure had risen to $103m. an annual rate of increase of 13.5%. These semi-governmental and local authorities of all natures and sizes have enjoyed a total annual rate of increase of 9.3%. Ii one looked at the economy and suggested that all authorities and people who spend money or who have any public responsibilities should increase their outlay per annum at a rate greater than those I have mentioned, one would find that public finance difficulties would very shortly be extreme. 
The Leader of the Opposition seemed to be very concerned about the policy of the Commonwealth Government and the Liberal Party. No doubt he is highly envious of the degree of unity which is established there us compared with his own Party. It has been our established policy, as federalists, to entrust the wider affairs of State governments and local and semigovernmental authorities to the State governments. This is the proper business of the State governments, lt is a natural argument for someone who wants to centralise everything in Canberra that local authorities should be financed and no doubt closely directed by the Government  in  Canberra. This is quite contrary to our policy. What we have done is to extend both loans and financial grants to the State governments who in turn arc responsible for allocating resources to local governments. It is relevant to say that the Commonwealth has made available to State governments large and increasing sums by way of annual revenue grants. 
lt is undeniable; it is statistically true. No doubt anyone can argue the toss and try to get a bil more. This is human nature. This is natural. This is the perennial and insistent demand of the honourable member for Barton. This is the way the State Premiers would naturally react. No matter how much money they had they would like more. There are plenty of things they would like to do, but it is impossible to reach saturation point with large numbers of independent governmental authorities. These grants have been in the recent past paid on the basis of a formula which virtually ensures that year by year they will increase at a faster rate than the economy as a whole increases. Similarly, on the capital side, it has always been the policy, economic and budgetary conditions permitting, that capital expenditure by State governments and their authorities, including local authorities under them, be increased year by year. This in fact has been the experience. Whenever the States have not been able to raise sufficient money directly from the loan market for public works, the Commonwealth has supplemented their resources by way of loans and various direct grants rather than reduce the total programmes. The States in turn are free to allocate any part of these moneys to local authorities. In fact, the figures which  T  have just read out indicate that an increasing percentage year by year has gone to local authorities. 
In 1961, before the Australian Loan Council, the Commonwealth took the initiative to bring in a policy whereby smaller local authorities borrowing sums not greater than $200,000 in the course of a year could borrow without limit. In June 1967 this limit on local authority borrowing was increased to $300,000. Any borrowings up to this point can be made freely and without restriction under the Loan Council borrowing programmes. Of course," it so happens that there are a good many forms of direct Commonwealth assistance to the States for specific purposes to bring considerable benefits to local authorities. Probably the most notable case is that of roads. We have also taken other steps to assist local authorities. For instance, in terms of the Constitution the Commonwealth is exempt from the payment of rates to local authorities, but both the Commonwealth Government itself and its authorities have as a matter of practice made ex gratia payments on a very wide scale. I am well aware of the situation in Newcastle, ' of which an honourable member reminds me.  It is true  that many public authorities everywhere would like to receive larger rates or raise a number of specific issues, but the fact is that the Commonwealth, although it is not obliged to do so under the Constitution, makes large ex gratia payments to local authorities in lieu of rates. 1 Commonwealth legislation, incidentally, has also exempted local authorities from sales tax. Quite naturally local authorites are constituted and function under State laws. Any change in this basis - -that is, the local authorites not functioning under State laws or within the compass ' of State responsibility - would be a matter of very direct and great concern to the States themselves. Any change would affect the existing patterns of Commonwealth-State relations, which depend upon the Commonwealth dealing directly with the States and in turn the States with the local authorities. A great part of financial assistance grants paid to the State governments by the Commonwealth take this into account and are strictly for the general purpose of meeting the charges on the State governments accruing from State local authorities. It is true that we levy payroll tax on local authorities. But, as with so many other arrangements, over the years this has become part of the generally agreed complex of Common wealth-State financial relationships. Most of these are embodied in specific agreements and in fact do not flow directly from the Constitution. It is a very easy task - in fact, it is the political bread and butter of the Leader of the Opposition - to go around every group and almost invite questions suggesting that more money be provided. He can ask: 'Would you not like some more money to do A, B and C? 1 am the man to provide it.' It may be a new health scheme. He has a vast number of rabbits which he is apt to pull out of his hat at any time, but they are all costly. He seems to ignore this. He is singularly silent on the ways and means of raising revenue, but as far as spending public money is concerned he is one of the most extravagant figures in Australian public life today. 
 Sub-clause (3.) of clause 3 reads: (3.) The amendment made by paragraph (c) of the last preceding sub-section shall bc deemed to have had effect on and from the first day of November, One thousand nine hundred and sixty -three. 
I move: 
Omit 'the last preceding sub-section', insert sub-section (1.) of this section'. 
This is purely a routine drafting amendment and has no other significance. 
 Mr Speaker- 
The honourable member, although rudely interjecting, is substantially right. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  asked me a number of specific questions, as did other honourable members. 1 w 11 endeavour to answer those. He asked whether any increase in contribution will be required in the case of the pre- 1959 members in order to take advantage of the increase in entitlements provided under this Bill. The pre-1959 entrants affected are in the main those who now hold the rank of lieutenant-colonel or  higher. If they have not already elected to limit their future contributions under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1963-68 they may now contribute for the full increase in pensioner entitlement now provided or, alternatively, elect to limit their contributions to what they are already pay ng. Those who make this election will become entitled to the full Commonwealth share of the increase in benefits now being provided. 
The honourable member also referred to the complexity of the existing scheme and quoted recommendations contained in the report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board to the Treasury transmitting the Actuary's report in respect of the quinquennium ended 30th June 1964. He asked why the recommendations in the report on the review of the 1959 entrants had not yet been enacted. Paragraph 32 of the Board's report indicates that a further 6 months may be required for the distribution of surplus assets to complete the type of review of contributions for the pre-1959 entrants envisaged in that report. As honourable members know, the distribution of the surplus assets is now approaching completion and leaves the way open to complete the pre-1959 scheme review. He also inquired why Parliament had not been informed of the commencement of the fourth quinquennial investigation into the Fund. The requirement for this investigation is contained in section 22 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1949-69. These investigations are automatically commenced every 5 years as required by the legislation. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition complained - and his complaint has been echoed by other members - that the Act is full of anomalies. He instanced the differences- in retiring ages prescribed for officers of equivalent rank in the different Services. These ages are related to manning requirements in the different Services, which in fact are not  identical, and hence the difference arises. He also inquired why the third quinquennial investigation into the Act formed the first full investigation into the DFRB Fund. The first . and second quinquennial investigations under the Act were conducted, in terms of the then legislation, not into the state and sufficiency of the Fund but solely into the state and sufficiency of the pensions account of the Fund. The procedure is explained in sections 32 to 35 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-58, which is included in the  repr, nt  to which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition referred. These sections remain in essence unchanged from the scheme's introduction in 1948 until the scheme was amended in 1959. 
He also asked for clarification of the situation where a person eligible to participate in the distribution of surplus assets of the Fund now being made had died. In this connection I would like to draw his attention to paragraph (b) of- sub-section (1.) of section 17 of the Act authorising the distribution, namely, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act (No. 3) 1968, in which it is provided that such payments will be made to such persons as the DFRB Board considers proper having regard to the circumstances of the case. He also said that lack of knowledge about the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund was a complaint common throughout the defence Services. An explanatory booklet has been completed and is at the moment awaiting the passage of this legislation before printing . can be completed and up to date booklets issued throughout the defence forces, an action of which i am sure the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would approve. 
 So far as it goes, I am sure he would approve of it. He did remark in passing that there has never been any investigation of the DFRB scheme. The original scheme, as a point of history, resulted from an investigation of the Dedman Committee, in 1948. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition probably knows  Mr Dedman.  This gentleman, who had a distinguished parliamentary career in his Party, conducted this investigation. There was also an exhaustive investigation of the scheme by the Allison Committee in the late 1950s, and this resulted in the introduction of what is known as the post-1959 scheme. The post 1959 scheme now applies to over 80% of members of the Fund.  Major reviews  of the scheme have been undertaken by the Government since then, the last being in 1967 and 1968, which resulted in further significant improvements in the scheme. 
A number of honourable members, including the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  raised some queries. The honourable member for Wills is an eminently ebullient character of unlimited verbosity. When he with his grey hair speaks with youthful experience I am reminded of the days when in my youth I was a new boy at school and I went up to that sector of the school which was recruiting new members for the cadet corps. The notice read: 'Those new boys seeking a field-marshal's baton, please apply to the sergeant-major's office between the hours of so and so and so and so'. Under this, someone had written: Knapsack to carry baton, price 2s 6d'. I thank an honourable member who has interjected for reminding me of the rank of sergeant-major which I eventually attained slowly, rung by rung over some years. 
 The presence of the honourable member for Sydney in the haunts of Kings Cross has continued unabated ever since. I am sure that, as he continues around them, in his own mind he feels that the place has declined ever since. The hon ourable member for Wills referred to questions on notice by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  Those questions were put on notice on 22nd May. Replies are being obtained to those questions. Those answers will be supplied to the honourable member. I am sure that if honourable members opposite could induce the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and one or two other notable examples on the Opposition side to reduce their demands on the notice paper it would be possible to answer a great many more serious questions much more readily. I just say that to honourable members and I do suggest that the remedy lies in their own hands. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  who is in spirit at least a worthy successor in carrying out the work once performed by the former honourable member for Maribyrnong raised certain matters. They are men of different character. I say that the honourable member for La Trobe follows on in the spirit of the work of the former honourable member for Maribyrnong, but the former honourable member for Maribyrnong did have an assiduity for detail and so on to understand and to master all the details of this legislation which, apparently, is very confusing to most other honourable members. 
The honourable member for La Trobe raised the question of compensation. This Bill does not amend the legislation relating to repatriation or to compensation the benefits of which may be paid to servicemen in appropriate cases in addition to the benefits under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. He also asked about the resignation of officers with over 30 years service, in other words, service stretching back further than that of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  He asked for an answer to this question. These benefits will be available under legislation being prepared to implement the preservation of pension rights. 
I turn now to the amendment that was moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. The Government does see a great deal of virtue in having a thorough inquiry into the DFRB legislation. However, we do find it difficult to accept - indeed, we find it impossible to accept - the amendment in its present form which, if carried. would have the direct practical effect of postponing the benefits provided by this legislation.I am sure that, once he realised this fact, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, if satisfied on other points, would not press his point. In any case, the questions raised - most of them by Opposition members - initially will be reported on by the Commonwealth Actuary when he completes the quinquennial investigation. In the course of the inquiry, I feel sure that these points which members on both sides of the House have pressed will be brought to light and will be ventilated. 
I can sympathise with the honourable member for Isaacs, who spoke last, because I once went through a process similar to the one which the honourable member described. In my case, I retired from the Public Service to enter this chamber. I also received nearly my contributions in full but with no interest.I think that the Government in the course of the years by practical application of justice has rectified the situation in respect of so many of the cases to which attention has been directed. 
The thinking of the Government on the amendment is along these lines: Our feeling is that this would be an appropriate subject for study by a joint select committee. Before the Government could bring forward a motion, this idea will need to be explored by our colleagues in another place. But in due course, after these necessary preliminary discussions have taken place, the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  will introduce a motion guided by the conversations. I am sorry but, at the moment, we feel that this is essential.I am suggesting that a joint select committee would represent the thinking of the Government on this matter. 
 We would not be unduly restricted in this approach. We would need to have conversations with parliamentary leaders on both sides in the Senate and in this House. But we would be prepared to bring forward to this House an appropriate motion as coming out of this discussion. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Barnard's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
 1 have received various communications on this subject about this gathering, ail of which will be carefully considered. I have also received a delegation from this body, whose representations will he similarly considered in detail. At this stage, naturally, I can not predict the outcome. 
1 am not quite certain about " which reports the honourable member has in mind. He is fight in pointing put that any fund to which employees contribute as much as 11 1/2% of their salaries is superannuation. For the most part such superannuation is bought at considerable cost to the individual. Regarding the recent legislation, the House will remember that it removed the disability facing retired Commonwealth public servants and, more particularly, retired members of the Defence forces so that they could accept Crown employment without reduction of their superannuation benefits. The superannuation had been earned by payments over the years and had nothing to do with their subsequent employment. The superannuation was a right they had previously gained. The object of the recent draft Bill which I brought before the House is to apply to former members of Parliament the same principle as that which Commonwealth public servants and retired members of the defence forces have enjoyed for some years. 
For some time past representations have been ' made by honourable members from both sides of the House to make the position of members of Parliament similar to that of retired public servants and exservicemen receiving payments from the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. The Bill put before the House represents proposals worked out and agreed to by the Parliamentary Retirement Trust on which all honourable members are represented. We have since learned from the Leader of the Opposition that this provision does not enjoy the support of a good many honourable members on the other side of the' House. Because of this the legislation will not currently be proceeded with. 
I am not sure that 1 have seen this statement or a copy of it. But I have seen other statements by the same gentleman. I am aware that house building has fallen rather further and faster in Western Australia than in other States. It is true also that the building industry in Western Australia has been under such pressure and has been so active for so long that it has produced probably more houses per head relative to those seeking houses than any other State has produced. So, quite apart from any other factors, we would expect just for sheer physical reasons that some decline in demand and in construction would have occurred in Western Australia. But this reduction would not necessarily be connected with interest rates. This requirement in Western Australia, I would say, would be more likely due to the lesser funds which the permanent building societies have been able to collect in deposits- 
The honourable member regards cause as rather simpler than the many factors that are at work in Western Australia. But there are factors in Western Australia which are conducive to some falloff, quite apart from any monetary factors which are now operating. 
1 have become over the years acutely aware of the existence of the body to which the honourable member refers. Apart from what we have heard from other sources, the honourable member has reminded the House for some years while 1 have been here of the existence of this body and its aspirations. It is not alone. In fact, 1 know of almost no aspect of Commonwealth taxation on which I do not have a long and deep file containing a well argued case for taxation concessions. I can assure him that the Murray Valley Development League and its various off-shoots in different sectors are not exceptions, and all these submissions will be considered carefully at Budget time. If the honourable member thinks he can add anything to what is already known I would be pleased if he would write to me. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Loan Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. ' 
Unless the honourable member has placed his question on the notice paper ] am not necessarily engaged now in any such calculation. I am quite sure that whatever his Party's housing policy is, he is so extravagant in all the promises he makes - this is one of his political characteristics - that its cost would be of a very high order. If the Leader of the Opposition will give me some order of priority for answers to the many questions he has placed on the notice paper- 
If the honourable member has the answer then I take it he is now content about that matter. He is inviting me to make all kinds of other estimates. The fact is that the official machine for which 1 am now responsible has a great task to do. lt generally is very overloaded and all these matters take a great deal of time and absorb a lot of energy. Naturally priorities have to be given. It would be nice to do an infinite number of things. I gather that the honourable member is quite happy and satisfied and I will leave him in that condition as often as I can. 
Wc had every intention of introducing this legislation before the close of this session. Unfortunatel  it has noi proved possible physically for the draftsman lo complete his task in the time. Therefore it is our intention to introduce this legislation as soon as possible in the Budget Session. 
1 only recently received a very exhaustive report on the subject. I am studying it and as soon as a decision has been made I will announce it. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Fund Act 1947-1950, I present the Twenty second annual report of the Trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund for the year ended 31st December 1969, together with the report of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the Fund as required by section 35 of the Act. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and  (2)  These bank charges are not within the nature of interest rates and, therefore, do not fall within the area in which the Treasurer or the Reserve Bank has responsibilities under the Banking Act. 
I have been informed that over the years the number of accounts qualifying for concessions (by way of cheque-issuing facilities free of all charges and payment of interest on current account deposits) has increased significantly, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of total deposits. The banks have decided that, in the light of rising costs, these concessions should be restricted. 
It is understood that concessions continue to be available in respect of a substantial number of accounts conducted by community service and educational organisations including parents and citizens' associations. 
This is a matter for the New South Wales State Government. 
Value of Imports into Australia from United States . (Question No. 1045) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The grants and loans which the Commonwealth has made to the States for each railway, road, port, water and power project in the 25 years ended 30 June 1969, together with the amount involved in each case, the period of repayment of and rate of interest on loans, the repayments made in 1968-69, and total repayments required on advances made by 30 June 1969 are shown in the attached table. 
In addition tothe projects shown in the table, the Commonwealth has also passed legislation to provide grants for the Copeton Dam in New South Wales ($20 million), the Tailem Bend to Keith Pipeline in South Australia ($6 million), the Cressy-Longford Irrigation Works in Tasmania ($0.75 million) and proposes to provide a grant to Queensland of $12.8 million for the Bundaberg Irrigation Works. The Commonwealth is also proposing to make a loan of $80 million to Queensland for the Gladstone Power Station. 
Inthe case of loans, it is not possible to provide complete details of total repayments which the Commonwealth will receive in respect of projects for which Commonwealth advances are still being made, as these will depend upon the amounts of the loans still to be made, the date on which each advance is made and the rate of interest which will apply to each advance.  Not  is it possible, with the exception of the Weipa harbour works, the Mount Isa railway reconstruction project and the development component of the Western Australia railway project, to give details of the annual repayments to be made by the States. Annual repayments in respect of all other projects vary from year to year as, in cases where loans have not yet been fully taken up, the advances still to be made will cause repayment obligations to increase progressively until the loans are complete. In the case of completed loans, the decreasing interest component on the reducing outstanding balances results in progressively smaller annual repayments. Repayments of principal and payments of interest in respect of the three projects mentioned above are payable on a credit foncier basis and, consequently, there are equal annual amounts repayable in respect of each project. The details of these are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under present arrangements the increases in the financial assistance grants to the States are determined each year under the formula laid down in the States Grants Act 1965-1968, which provides that the grant for each State for each year be determined by taking that State's grant for the previous year (with the addition of $2 million each year up to 1969-70 in the case of Queensland) and: 
increasing it by the percentage change in the population of that State during the year ending 31 December of the year of payment; 
increasing the amount so obtained by the percentage increase in average wages for Australia as a whole for the year ended 31 March of the year of payment; and 
increasing this amount by the betterment factor of 1.2 per cent 
The increase that would accrue to Victoria next year under the existing formula cannot yet be estimated with any degree of precision. The final grant for the present financial year, which would form the base for determining next year's grant if present arrangements continued unaltered, has not been determined, and the relevant increases in average wages and population for next year are, of course, also unknown. Further, the honourable member will be aware that the Prime Minister announced at the Premiers' Conference held in February that the Commonwealth was willing to increase both the base level and the rate of escalation of these grants. The decisions taken in relation to this undertaking will affect the increase in Victoria's general revenue grant. 
Victoria's interest payments to the Commonwealth include interest on Commonwealth advances under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, interest on other specific purpose advances by the Commonwealth (e.g., on account of War Service Land Settlement and rail standardisation advances) and interest on Commonwealth subscriptions to 'special loans' raised to complete the State's loan programmes. Some of the securities issued in special loans have since matured and have been either redeemed or converted; others have been exchanged by the Government for securities held by institutional investors. It would not be practicable to determine which of the Commonwealth's existing holdings of securities are the residue of securities originally representing Victorian debt arising from special loan subscriptions. It is therefore not possible to say what interest payments by Victoria would be in respect of securities held by the Commonwealth. 
Nor it is possible at this stage to make a reliable estimate of the increase next year in Victoria's total interest payments. The increase will depend, amongst other things, on future interest rates, the State's share of the Loan Council borrowing programme for next year and the results of loans offered next year. It will also be considerably affected by the decisions taken in relation to the Commonwealth's offer announced at the February 
Premiers' Conference to take over, progressively over the next five years, responsibility for a portion of existing State debt and to provide part of the State's loan programmes for works and housing as grants rather than loans. In recent years total interest payments from the Victoria budget have increased as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 51. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The income tax zone allowances are available only to persons who reside in or who have been in prescribed zone areas for more than onehalf of a year of income. Those areas, which are prescribed quite specifically to the Income Tax Assessment Act, do not extend to off-shore areas. Accordingly, periods of employment on off-shore drilling rigs do not qualify as periods of residence in zone areas. 
(a) See the answer to (1) above. 
I have received representations from other quarters concerning this matter and it has been noted for consideration, along with other requests for revision of the zone allowance provisions of the income tax law; when those provisions are next under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The question of allowing taxation deductions for the cost of travelling expenses incurred in seeking medical treatment has been the subject of representations on a number of occasions. The representations come mainly from country areas. 
As the honourable member will be aware, it is the practice of the Government to examine at the time the annual Budget is being prepared the many requests it receives for taxation concessions. The present request by the honourable member has been noted for consideration when the 1970-71 Budget is being prepared. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a result of amendments made with effect from the commencement of the 1964-65 income year, pay and allowances received by members of the Citizen Forces are already exempt from income tax in respect of service, other than continuous full-time service. It has been estimated that the further cost to income tax revenue of making all pay and allowances of members of the Citizen Forces non-taxable would be approximately $500,000 per annum. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of persons under 35 years of age who were married in each year during the period 1963-1968 is shown in the following table. The table shows the annual numbers of marriages in which at least one person was under 35 years as well as the annual numbers of persons marrying under 35 years of age. The figures for 1969 are not yet available. 
There are no official estimates of future marriage numbers. Population projections have been prepared and published enabling the population at particular ages at certain future dates to be calculated on the basis of assumed fertility and mortality and chosen rates of net migration. These projections do not, however, yet distinguish married population or give the number of marriages. 
 The answer lo the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 2nd June l70 I matte a statement in the House concerning the .second pari of the distribution of the surplus assets from the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund to eligible contributors. The issue of cheques for these payments commenced on Monday, 8th June. 
The answers to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
lt is estimated, on the basis of statistics of taxable individuals for the 1967-68 income year, that the cost to income tax revenue of raising from $800 to $1,200 the maximum deduction for life insurance payments and contributions to superannuation funds, etc. was approximately $I2.5m. 
The second and third parts of the honourable member's question relate only to those taxpayers who claimed the maximum deduction of $1,200 for life insurance and superannuation paymentS etc. 
The latest available statistics, in respect ot (usable individuals for the 1967-68 income year, show that the number of taxpayers who were allowed deductions of $1,200 for life insurance ami superannuation payments, etc. in that year was 37,387. 
lt has been estimated that the mean actual income in the 1967-68 income year of taxpayers who were allowed the maximum deduction of $1,200 for life insurance and superannuation payments, etc. was approximately $11,000. 
Royal Tour  (Question  No. 956) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: . 
Official statistics of earnings and rates of pay are collected and published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
Direct estimates of the amount of ordinary time earnings in excess of award, etc., rates were obtained by the Bureau in the course of special surveys of the structure of earnings as at September 1960 and October 1965. These particulars are shown in the published results. Those for the second survey were shown in terms of average amounts per employee for adult males working full time classified by industry. State, Governmental or other, managerial, etc., and other. 
I am advised by the Commonwealth Statistician that it is intended to conduct the third of these special surveys in the first half of 1971. The Statistician also advises that he is exploring the possibility of (i) conducting these surveys on an alternative basis which would enable them to be more frequent and (ii) obtaining from these surveys estimates of the proportions of employees who receive ordinary time payments in excess of award, etc., rates. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A concession has been available for life insurance premiums since Commonwealth income tax was introduced in 1915. The concession has taken the form of deductions against assessable income for all years of income except the years ended 30 June 1942 to 1950, inclusive, when rebates of tax were substituted for concessional deductions. 
The maximum amounts that have been allowable as deductions against income or subject to rebates of tax are - 
for premiums securing life insurance or deferred annuities - e years ended 30 June 1915 to 1935- 100; 
for payments of the nature specified in (i) and including also any amounts paid as contributions to superannuation funds, sustentation funds, widows funds, orphans' funds and friendly societies - e years ended 30th June 1936 to 1949- $200 e year ended 30th June 1950- $300; 
for payments of the nature specified in (i) and (ii) and including also any amounts paid as premiums for sickness insurance, personal injury or accident insurance and contributions to medical or hospital benefit funds - e years ended 30 June 1951 to 1956- $400; 
for payments of the nature specified in (i), (ii) and (iii) (other than contributions to medical or hospital benefit funds) - e years of income ended 30 June 1957  to 1959- $600   years of income ended 30 June 1960  to 1967- $800  o years of income ended 30 June 1968 to 1970- $1200. 
In order that premiums .paid on a life policy may qualify for deduction, the insurance is required to be effected on the life of the taxpayer himself (being a resident of Australia) or of his spouse or child. 
The latest available statistics that relate to life insurance deduction are included in the statistics of deductions for life insurance and superannuation payments, etc., allowed to taxable individuals for the 1967-68 income year. No separate statistics of life insurance deductions are available, but it has been estimated that the cost to income tax revenue of allowing deductions in respect of life insurance premiums in the 1967- 1968 income year was about $120m. 
It is understood that most insurance companies do not issue ordinary endowment policies for terms shorter than ten years, except in special circumstances. In recent times, however, certain companies have been offering endowment policies for shorter terms and there has been some evidence of a growing interest in the use of these policies for tax-saving purposes. 
An examination of developments in the use of the taxation concession for life insurance premiums is being made to determine whether the conditions governing the concession should be amended. 
The answer (to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Income tax deductions under the heading of education expenses are allowable to a parent if the child is receiving full-time education at a school. This requirement is satisfied where the child is of an age to receive education of the kind furnished by a standard kindergarten and the establishment to which the fees are paid provides such educational facilities. Payments made to a child minding centre solely for the purpose of providing for the care or supervision of a child do not qualify as education expenses and are outgoings of a private or domestic nature. The question of amending the law to allow deductions for fees paid by working mothers to child minding centres will be considered during the preparation of the 1970-71 Budget. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In accordance with usual practice, the question of amending the incometaxlaw to authorise the concessions referredto by the honourable mem- ber will be considered, along with other requests for new or extended taxation concessions, when the 1970-71 Budget is being prepared. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) (a) The Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia and the private saving banks are currently paying interest on ordinary deposits of individuals at the following rates: (0 on the first $4,000 of an account -  3.75% per annum, 
on the excess over $4,000 up to $20,000-  4.25% per annum, 
and (c) This information is not published. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes, with regard to the last parts of the manuscript. 
I am advised by the Commonwealth Statistician that the next issue of the Labour Report will be a combined one for the years 1968 and 1969 which it is expected will be published early in 1971. It is intended that the issue for 1970 will be published by the end of 1971. 
The Labour Report provides, for a large number of statistical series, a consolidated reference source of descriptive material and figures for a long run of years. Current figures for these series are published in regular monthly or quarterly statistical bulletins or special publications as soon as they become available. 
The needs of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and those who appear before it in National Wages Cases arc met so far as the relevant series are concerned by the inclusion in a common exhibit book (prepared by the Department of Labour and National Service) of publications containing the latest available figures. This book, which also contains other data relevant to the hearing, is kept up to date during the proceedings. Delay in publication of the Labour Report does not therefore prevent convenient access during National Wage Cases to the latest available figures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is not available from Treasury records. However, statistics provided to the Department of Civil Aviation by the airlines indicate that the amounts paid to the airlines for total Commonwealth Government business in each year since 1956-57 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The 2 most important differences between the States in the method of providing pre-school education are as follows: 
There are differences between the States in the extent to which children of 5 years and less are admitted to government primary schools. To some extent, such children would be receiving what could be regarded as the equivalent of pre-school education. 
In Tasmania, pre-schools are conducted by the Education Department while in all other States they are staffed and administered by a Kindergarten Union or Association or, to varying extents, by local government authorities. 
There are also different types of centres catering to the needs of young children and it is difficult in some cases to determine which should be classified as 'Pre-schools' and which as other centres. For example, in Victoria there is a significant number of 'play centres' conducted by pre-school play leaders who have less training than kindergarten teachers and are permitted to care for no more than 15 children at the one time. By contrast the nursery schools and child-minding centres which have been set up in a number of Slates do not normally offer a recognised educational programme, and the children are normally left in the care of nurses rather than teachers. 
and (4) Boththe Commonwealth Statistician and the Commonwealth Grants Commission, as part of their normal work, regularly seek further details of education and other social services expenditure from State authorities. In June 1969 the Grants Commission sought information from the Slate Education Departments on education expenditure by the Stales on non-government schools. At the lime of my predecessor's answer, some States had not supplied full details of such expenditure but 1 am informed that the Commission has now obtained sufficient data on this matter. Some Slates have not supplied details of their expenditure on pre-schools, but the Commission does not require these for its purposes. However, the Commonwealth Statistician has given some attention to this matter since the dale of my predecessor's answer and, from a limited investigation, has been ableto compile approximate figures of expenditure by the State Governments on preschools defined so as to exclude expenditure on day nurseries and child minding centres, but including expenditure on play centres. Figures for the last 5 years, based mainly on published information, but in one or two cases on information especially provided by State authorities, are set out in the table below. 
These figures do not include expenditure incurred by State education departments in respect of children attending government schools, with the special exception of expenditure on government pre-schools in Tasmania - see answer to (2). The expenditure shown, again with the exception of Tasmania, is mostly in the form of grants by Slate Governmentsto Kindergarten Unions or Associations. In interpreting these figures, it should be borne in mind that some Stale Governments might be said to be indirectly supporting pre-school educationto the extent that general purpose grants by them to local authorities would be availableto help finance expenditure by those authorities on pre-school education. 
The answer  to  the  honourable  member's question is as follows: 
No. The matter of the costs of an appeal under the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act 1930-1969 is outside the Authority of the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation. Regulation 11 of the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Regulations provides that a Court may award costs in respect of an appeal under the Act, and in default of agreement between the parties as to the amount of thecosts, thecosts are taxed in accordance with the appropriate Court scale or are fixed by the Court. Neither the Commissioner nor the Commonwealth is a party to any agreement that the assessment of the costs shall be on the basis of one-half of the Supreme Court scale. 
See answer to (1). 
The records for the last 10 years indicate that in that period there have been no cases where the costs in respect of appeals under the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act have been taxed by the Registrar of a Supreme Court. In the States an appeal from a Determination of the Commissioner may be made to a County Court or similar Court and any further appeal lies to the High Court. In the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory appeals may be made from a Court of Petty Sessions or a Local Court to the Supreme Court of the Territory and thence to the High Court. 
Neither I nor the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation has received any representation from an employee that difficulty has been found in securing a legal firm to act on his behalf in an appeal under the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) (a) Information is not available to answer these questions. 
(b) and (c) The table below shows the estimated value of home loans outstanding in March 1970 of the major institutional lenders for housing, and the percentage distribution of outstandings among these lenders. Housing loans are also made by other institutions and lending groups but details of their home loans outstanding are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In view of the wide range of natural disasters that have been experienced in Canada and the United States, the relief schemes operating in those countries involve a number of complex arrangements. This has necessitated rather more information to be acquired and more research to be undertaken than was envisaged when the project was first commenced in response to an earlier question by the Honourable Member. Partly because of this and partly because of staff shortages, the examination of the relief schemes operating in these two countries and New Zealand has not yet been completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Credit foncier housing loans to individuals  were  provided by  the  Commonwealth Bank  of 
Australia under Part XI of the Commonwealth Bank Act 1945-1948 from 1946 until 1952 when the Commonwealth Savings Bank assumed that business. The interest rate on such loans for new houses from the Commonwealth Bank as at 1st July 1949 was 3.875 per cent per annum and the maximum loan specified in the Act was $3,500. (The Bank did not provide credit foncier loans for existing houses until 1956.) 
Credit foncier housing loans to individuals are now made by the Commonwealth Savings Bank: the maximum loan for this form of lending for housing is $8,000 and the current interest rates are: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The long-term Commonwealth bond interest rate as at1 January 1950 was 3.125 per cent and the short-term rate was 2.0 per cent. 
The following tables give details of changes in the interest rate for (a) the longest-term and (b) the shortest-term securities offered  in  Commonwealth public loans raised since1 January 1950. These securities were issued for varying terms, and on a number of occasions they were issued at a discount. The first column shows the coupon interest rate and the second column the redemption yield after allowing forthe period of the loan andthe discount (if any) in the issue price. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The net industrial consumption of gold in Australia in 1969, including gold sold for fabrication in Australia before subsequent export, was 435,482 fine ounces. Figures are not available of the amount used within Australia. 
The free market price of gold quoted in London on 5 June was SUS35.20 an ounce. It should be noted that the gold content of bullion imported for refining in Australia, namely 181,292 ounces in 1969, is included in figures of the total supply of gold in Australia. 
Increase in Interest Rates: Undue Burden  (Question No. 1306) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3), (4) and (5) 
The recent increases in the maximum rates of interest which the Loan Council will approve for semi-government and local authority borrowings followed the increased rates applicable to the Commonwealth cash loan which closed on 14 May last. Rates for both Commonwealth and semigovernment and local authorities arc fixed by the Loan Council, of which the Commonwealth is a member. 
The matter of interest rates is one of concern to the Loa'n Council and the recent increase in the long-term bond rate and in the rates payable by local authorities was made by the Council only aftercareful consideration of all relevant facts. It was considered, however, that interest rates payabb on public securities must be fixed competitively if significant amounts of money are to be raised on the market. It cannot therefore be said without qualification that the increase in interest rates would act as a deterrent to public investment. 
State semi-government and local authorities are within the control and responsibility of the respective State Governments. All States are represented on the Loan Council and the Council is therefore most conscious of the needs of government authorities and the difficulties they face from increasing costs. 
Increase in Housing Loan  (Question No. 1308) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Banking Corporation has provided the following information: 
The Commonwealth Savings Bank's maximum loan under its credit foncier housing scheme is $8,000- (see also the answer given today to 
Question No. 1235). However, the Bank is making mortgage loans in excess of $8,000 available in a limited number of selected cases. It is expected that such loans will generally be in the $8,000- $12,000 bracket. 
The mortgage loans were introduced in April 1970 to match facilities provided by other savings banks. 
The interest rale on mortgage loans ranges between 7.5 and 8% per annum. 
I move: 
That  this  Bill  be  now  read  a  second time. 
In doing so I present the Budget proposals for the financial year 1970-71. 
By these proposals the Government seeks: - to provide for a large increase in essential expenditures, especially on payments to the States, welfare, development and assistance to industry, including emergency relief for woolgrowers hard hit by drought and low prices; - to make reductions in personal income taxation, especially on lower and middle income earners, estimated to have a value to the taxpayers concerned of $289m in a full financial year and $228m in 1970-71; we thereby make good - indeed more than make good - our undertaking to give substantial income tax relief to this large body of people; - notwithstanding these large commitments, to produce a responsible budget, a balanced budget, a budget shaped to the requirements of an economy that is dynamic and fast-growing - but an economy still threatened by disruptive inflation. 
I should like to enlarge upon that last point. In 1969-70 the economy again achieved a high rate of growth. Gross national product at constant prices increased by about 5.5% - this despite the trials and setbacks of rural industry. The number of wage and salary earners increased by no less than 4%. Even though wool prices fell sharply, there was a remarkable increase of 24% in the total value of exports. But the strong lift in activity that lay behind these achievements brought developing stresses. By March, notwithstanding the big inflow of migrants and the entry of more and more married women into the work-force, the labour situation had become very tight, with job vacancies well above the number of registered applicants for work. 
The surge in demand for labour reflected a quickening in demand generally. Consumer spending, which increased by 7.2% in 1968-69, moved up by 9.6% in 1969-70. All branches of private fixed capital expenditure - that is to say, on dwellings, other forms of building and construction, plant and equipment - rose strongly until the final quarter of the year when, through tighening of finance, there was a moderate check to housing starts. Public authority spending also rose strongly throughout the year. 
In brief, notably though output was increasing, demand was increasing faster. These are typically the conditions in which inflation breeds. Signs that it was active became more evident as the year went on. Cost and price increases gathered pace. Average weekly earnings rose by about 8% in 1969-70. The consumer price index rose at an accelerating rate throughout the year, reaching an annual rate of growth above 5% in the June quarter. 
The end-year downswing in liquidity, reinforced as it was by sharp increases in interest rates, produced a marked monetary tightening, although its severity was moderated to some extent by a revival of capital inflow. The most evident effect it had on the demand situation was seen in housing activity; but there was also some general easing of the labour market. Even so, at the end of June the number of registered applicants for jobs did not exceed 1% of the work-force. 
The current year thus began with the economy pretty much at full stretch. Prospects for growth are very good provided the call on resources is kept within reason. Certainly, it is entirely possible that the year will see real gross national product increase again by 5.5% or thereabout-. With immigration flowing strongly, there should be a further large addition - more than 3% - to the work-force. The farm outlook is not encouraging but we can reasonably expect a good rise in non-farm productivity. Oar external outlook is promising - in particular, there should be a further large rise in exports. Meanwhile, the fact that Bass Strait oil is coming on stream in a big way will hold down imports quite considerably. Capital inflow has been fairly strong lately though, of course, we cannot be sure of its trend throughout the year. 
It is the demand side that will bear watching. Consumer spending is currently very buoyant and that situation seems likely to continue. Private spending on plant and equipment and non-residential building and construction seems set for continued strong growth - there is a wealth of investment opportunities, and such forward indicators as we have clearly suggest this. The earlier strong upward trend in dwelling construction has been checked for the time being but an upturn there is likely before long. 
Herein lies the core of our Budget problem, seen from the economic standpoint. With economic activity running, as it has been, and in all probability will continue to be, close up against the limit of resources, there is an inherent tendency for wages, profits and other forms of income to rise faster than output - on the one hand, giving rise to cost increases and, on the other, generating excessive demand. This is not just a matter of theory; it is borne out by a wealth of experience. Hence, in framing the Budget, we have had to assess most carefully its potential influence on the economy. 
There could be no gainsaying the need for a large increase of expenditures in this Budget. From the analysis 1 shall make later it will be seen that all of the increases we propose are in the high priority class. But the Commonwealth's expenditures, directly or indirectly, add to demand and we have had to scrutinise them carefully from that standpoint. We have also taken as mandatory a sizeable reduction in personal income tax - we propose to meet that obligation squarely and unequivocally. But the increase in disposable incomes that will ensue must tend to stimulate demand. 
Plainly, economic prospects being what they are, the Government must ensure that, in its overall effect, the Budget does not give additional impetus to demand. Accordingly, we have avoided any significant acceleration in the rate of increase in domestic outlays and, as the cornerstone of our policy, 1 am bringing in a balanced Budget - indeed, one in which total receipts will more than cover total expenditure. As overseas expenditures this year will again greatly exceed overseas receipts, this Budget will produce a considerable surplus of domestic receipts over domestic expenditures. From the standpoint of impact on resources and liquidity that will be all to the good. 
It may be said that we could equally have achieved the same Budget result by drastic pruning of expenditures or by postponing personal income tax reform. We do not believe these were practicable alternatives. We have chosen instead to pursue high priority objectives on the expenditure side and to do something decisive on personal income tax; to make this possible, we have decided to introduce a number of taxation measures, which I shall outline presently. Here I may say that they are of kinds that, in general, should have a steadying effect on spending. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains details of the proposed appropriations for expenditure on: (a) the construction of public works and buildings; (b) the acquisition of sites and buildings: (c) items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure: (d) grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution; and (e) new policies not authorised by special legislation. The main points regarding the proposed expenditures in this Bill were dealt with in my Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I present for the information of honourable members the following papers in connection with the Budget for 1970-71: 
Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1971. 
Commonwealth Payments to or for the States 1970-71. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics that would permit accurate estimates to be made of the value of tax remissions granted to foreign owners of equity in Australian firms in the classes specified in the honourable member's question are not availabl e. However, some statistics of overseas participation in the manufacturing and mining industries in Australia are available and these statistics, taken in conjunction with estimates of revenue forgone as a result of taxation concessions to industry, have enabled broad estimates to be made of the order of the revenue forgone attributable to overseas interests in manufacturing and mining companies in Australia. 
The following estimates are based on estimated revenue forgone in 1968-69 in respect of various concessions to these industries included in Statement No. 9, Commonwealth Assistance to Industry through the Taxation System, attached to the 1969-70 Budget Speech. In these estimates, the categories of overseas ownership used are those shown in the Commonwealth Statistician's bulletins, Overseas Participation in Australian Mining Industry and Overseas Participation in Australian Manufacturing Industry. Although not identical, these categories correspond broadly with those specified in the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed by the  President  of the Superannuation Board that, at present, there are practical problems involved in making a full review of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund more frequently than under the present quinquennial arrangements. I understand that these problems have arisen in part because of the accumulation of arrears as a consequence of the detailed work necessary to enable distribution of the surplus of over$40m to pensioners and contributors. Recent major changes that are of benefit to contributors, such as the introduction of noncontributory units, have aggravated the situation. Nevertheless, I have been informed by the  President  of the Board that these problems are being overtaken through the further development of the computer system in the Office of the Superannuation Board. On present indications, more frequent reviews should be practicable within 2 years. 
When the practical problems referred to in (1) have been overcome, it would be possible for an annual review to be made. However, I have been informed by the Commonwealth Actuary that it would not be possible to ascertain meaningful actuarial trends by reviewing what has happened in only 1 year. 
The actuarial examinations as such are not protracted in relation to the amount of work involved. As indicated in (1), the problem lies in the up-dating of records and the extraction of data for the examinations. A disadvantage would be suffered by superannuitants only if significant surplus assets were revealed by a quinquennial investigation and appropriate adjustments were delayed. Such a situation arose in connection with the investigation as at 30 June 1962 and the disadvantage was offset by making the adjustments effective from 1 July 1962. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The inability of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board to supply data relating to the movement of contributors and pensioners for the 2 years 1st July 1959 to 30th June 1961 did not prevent the Commonwealth Actuary from calculating suitable rates of contribution. However, in the absence of information covering the whole of the Quinquennium to 30th June 1964, be was unable to verify the accuracy of the data supplied for the purposes of his investigation. 
As a by-product of the records established for the recent distribution of surplus assets, the statistical data not previously available and other related statistics will be available to meet actuarial requirements. 
Yes, on 20th January 1966. 
No. 
It is unlikely that the Report will be available before the Budget Session, 1971. 
Yes. The Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board made copies available to the Service Departments for distribution to members. Additional copies are available. 
and (8) In accordance with section 22 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948- 1958, the first and second quinquennial investigations were conducted only into the state and sufficiency of the Pensions Account within the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. Until 1959, in accordance with sections 32 to 35 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1958, the share of each pension met by the Fund out of the Pensions Account was related to the capital value of the pension payable and the accumulated value of the contributions paid by the particular member, the balance being met by the Commonwealth. Surpluses of $271,392 and $312,456 were found in the Pensions Account by the first and second quinquennial investigations and, as provided for in the legislation, were used to reduce payments by the Commonwealth to the Fund. When the Pensions Account was discontinued in 1959, the Commonwealth was meeting, on average, 85% of each pension. 
The third quinquennial investigation under the Act, which was also the first complete review of the Fund, disclosed a surplus of $4,465,770 as at 30th June 1964 in respect of those members who became liable to contribute to the Fund before 4th December 1959 and a deficiency of $3,260,000 in respect of those who became liable to contribute on or after that date. 
The Commonwealth Actuary reported that the rates of contributions being paid by members who became liable to contribute on or after 4th December 1959 were not sufficient to meet their share of the benefits to which they might become entitled in the future. In respect of members who became liable to contribute before 4th December 1959 he stated that a decrease in the rates of contribution payable by some and an increase in the rates payable by others was necessary. 
Yes. 
Considerable progress has already been made in an overall review of the organisation and functional arrangements within the Office of the Superannuation and Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Boards. The changes progressively being made should enable the Office to meet the greatly increased work load resulting from the extensions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme in recent years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following table showing annual investment in the transport and communications industry in the past 10 years, together with capital expenditure by public authorities (other than enterprises) on transport and communication functions. 
The dissection of enterprises by industry is shown separately for private and public enterprises. No estimates for the private sector are available yet for 1968-69 and estimates for other years are approximate because of insufficient detail for unincorporated businesses. The expenditure of public authorities on transport and communication functions relates to capital expenditure of an ancillary nature, such as the construction of roads, airfields, buildings and other plant for motor registration authorities, etc. 
I present the following paper: 
Statement for the year 1969-70 of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901-1969 (Advance to the Treasurer). 
Ordered that the statement be taken into consideration in Committee of the whole House at the next sitting. 
I present the following paper: 
Taxation - Taxation Statistics 1968-69 dated 1st August 1970, supplement to the 48th Report of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
Ordered that the paper be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eleven. (Note - Government service has been taken to mean Commonwealth Government Service.) 
(2) 
At the time of the Premiers' Conference the Premier of South Australia and other Premiers were invited by the Prime Minister, if they felt that their States had been particularly disadvantaged in the relative split up of funds, to present their cases to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. This the South Australian Government did. The aim of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in conducting this inquiry is, of course, to provide an objective financial and economic assessment of State and public finances and conditions generally. South Australia's case has already been presented to and examined by the Commission. 
As I have told the honourable member and also his colleagues from South Australia who have been assiduously importuning me on this matter, we shall deal with it as expeditiously as possible and at a suitable time, as is customary, the Prime Minister will make an announcement of the action we propose to take. 
 I am well aware of the unfortunate drought conditions in Queensland. In fact, over recent months the Commonwealth has been paying out many millions of dollars towards financing measures being taken by the Queensland Government to alleviate drought in that State. There is a provision of $11. 5m in the Budget which is the present estimate of the likely cost of further drought relief measures in Queensland for this financial year. We are all hoping, of course, that we will get a break in the drought which alone can really alleviate the situation. The policy of the Government in this matter is well known, that is, that preference will be given both in the allocation of funds and the interest rates to be charged to primary producers in rural areas and other exporters. This is well known, and also recently the Reserve Bank has once again been asking banks to give particular consideration and priority to those stricken by drought and to others who are afflicted by adverse seasonal conditions. This policy is well known and is being carried out, but in view of the honourable member's question I will ask the Reserve Bank to go into the matter and ask what other measures it can take. In due course I will let the honourable member know. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A scheme for ex-gratia payments in lieu of general rates on various classes of Commonwealthowned property was introduced in 1947. Some isolated payments were made in earlier years. 
The following Commonwealth Departments made ex-gratia payments in lieu of general rates during the 1969-70 rating year to the South Australian municipal authorities indicated: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) (3) The Government's decision to assist the Australian gold-mining industry by continuing the subsidy legislation for a further 3 years was announced on 23 June 1970. Amending legislation to extend the operation of the Assistance Act until 30 June 1973 will be introduced later in the Session. 
Pre-school Pupils and Teachers  (Question No. 102) 
First of all I should remove from the honourable member's mind any idea that there was a recommendation of S3m by the Treasury. That statement has no foundation. The Treasury advises the Government and the Government makes the appropriate decisions. The Commonwealth Grants Commission has heard the South Australian case. Its full report will be available some time in the near future. As far as the intermediate action is concerned, I indicated in the House the other day that the Prime Minister would be making an appropriate statement, lt is normal for the Prime Minister to make these statements at the appropriate time after being in touch with and advising the Premier of the State concerned. The honourable member also referred to the loan to the State of Victoria. This will come up in the debate on the Budget papers in the normal way. I think it would be appropriate at that stage to give the honourable member the information he requires. 
Firstly, I have not seen the article to which the honourable member has referred and I am not fully acquainted with his personal activities in this direction. The position with general insurance is very different from that of life assurance in respect of which we have passed a specific Act. I might say that there has been no failure of a life company since Commonwealth supervision began in 1945. The general insurance field, as I have said, is very different indeed. There are about 450 companies operating in the other than life insurance field. In some States there are close supervisory powers, particularly in Queensland which has been the pioneer in this field. A good many States operate in this sphere through their own institutions. They have separate companies and a varying degree of provisions and devices operated mainly through their Companies Acts. The Commonwealth has received representations directly and on behalf of the Premiers of 2 States. Cabinet has considered them and other representations which have been made by representatives of insurance groups and other parties who are interested and competent. Replies to the State Premiers are being prepared and it would be inappropriate to anticipate them until the Premiers concerned have had a chance to read them. 
Work in this field has been proceeding for some time in my Department and a number of these issues are now being considered as a matter of urgency. Of course the Government is very concerned at the lack of confidence which has spread in regard to a good many insurance companies. This lack of confidence in itself tends to bring about its own damage. For instance, there have been rather precipitate suggestions that immediately the Commonwealth should increase the deposit payable but a sudden increase in deposits for existing companies could do nothing but complicate and make their financial position more difficult. This whole field is under very thorough consideration and at the appropriate time - I imagine in a very short time hence - the Prime Minister will be making an announcement on behalf of the Government on this subject. 
Perhaps I might rationalise the matter slightly by referring mainly to the second part of the honourable member's speech. I have been following very closely developments in the field of dwelling construction. A short while ago we established special machinery so that we could watch this particularly closely and obtain the most up to date information. I did, of course, see the figures which have just been published concerning dwelling construction and other building construction. The honourable member may also have noticed that non-dwelling construction in July was about 29% above the figure for last year. 
I also pass on to the honourable member some confidential information which we have which indicates that in the first 3 weeks of August dwelling approvals have turned moderately upwards as we expected. This information is from numerous sources but it is not complete. 
The honourable member for Reid would make life simpler if he handed round a list of his numerous questions before he asked them. The information to which 1 have referred will not, of course, be merged with the full figures for some considerable time yet. But I thought, because the honourable member has shown some interest in this matter, that he would be interested to get the information, which is the best we have, although it is not complete, not official and a lot of it is based on confidential reports. The honourable member may have noticed a report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald* of the upturn in loans by permanent building societies. I inform the honourable member that I expect the dwelling sector to increase from now on. Obviously it was running a few months ago at a greater pace than the capacity to produce the necessary houses and not avoiding excessive cost increases. But from now on the honourable member can expect dwelling approvals to increase. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the income tax law so that interest on borrowings convertible into share capital will be allowable tax deductions if the borrowings meet specified tests. Since amendments to the income tax law in 1960 interest on convertible borrowings has not  been  a deduction for income tax purposes. The deductions were withdrawn  to  protect the revenue against legal tax avoidance. On the terms on which most convertible issues were being made in Australia prior to1960 they amounted to no more than deferred equity 
Issues. In effect, in the majority of cases tax deductible interest payments were simply being substituted for non-deductible dividend payments for the purpose of reducing tax payments by companies. 
Last year the Government undertook  a  review of the income tax law on convertible borrowings with the objective of restoring tax deductions for interest in a way which would not provide the means of exploiting the conversion technique for tax saving purposes so commonly used before 1960, but would allow companies to use convertible securities where that class of security met the needs of borrowers and lenders and consequently enabled companies to raise finance on favourable terms. In making this review we took account of the fact that convertible borrowings that replace what would otherwise be straight fixed interest borrowings do not in any way prejudice the income tax revenue. We had in mind loo that the convertible type of security can be a particularly appropriate means of financing development and expansion of Australian resources. During periods of development or expansion a company is usually unable to declare attractive dividends and, while it may have bright prospects, it is often handicapped in seeking to raise equity capital and must, therefore, rely upon debt finance. If, by a judicious use of fixed interest borrowings carrying options to convert into equity capital, it can reduce the cost of servicing capital until it has reached a stage of profitability where it can pay attractive dividends, it might be able to obtain the capital more readily. If Australian investors are given the opportunity to invest in this way they could eventually acquire equity participation in the companies concerned rather than fixed interest investment. 
From an investor's standpoint, convertible borrowings combine the advantages of a fixed interest issue in terms of income and security with the opportunity of later conversion into share capital if the company performs successfully. They therefore provide an attractive means of investing in developing companies with good but, to some extent, uncertain prospects lor future growth. This feature of them could well provide an opportunity for Australians to acquire equity holdings in overseas owned ventures, for example, in the extractive industries. 
Following the review of the matter in 1969 the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  announced on 16th September 1969 that income tax deductions would be restored for interest on convertible borrowings if the borrowings were made on terms which satisfied a series of tests that he then stated. These  tests  were designed with Australian convertible borrowings, rather than convertible borrowings raised overseas, principally in mind. Particularly in view of the establishment of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, the Government has reviewed the appropriateness of the tests so far as overseas convertible borrowings are concerned. Consistently with the necessary objective of protecting the income tax revenue from the results of use of convertible borrowings purely for tax saving purposes, we found it desirable to chang: some features of the original plan so as to cater more appropriately for convertible borrowings raised overseas rather than in Australia, lt was also found desirable, mainly as a consequence of the revised tests relating to overseas borrowings, to make some minor amendments to the tests as they affected Australian borrowings. 1 turn now to the basic conditions specified in the legislation as required to be met by a convertible borrowing if interest on it is to be tax deductible. One of these is that the option to take up shares in the borrowing company or another company must rest with the lenders and not wilh the company, lt is, of course, a normal characteristic of fixed interest borrowings that a lender has the right to receive repayment in cash. This condition recognises this fact and, at the same time, impedes attempts legally to avoid tax by schemes designed to give a deferred share issue the semblance and guise of a fixed interest borrowing. 
Another basic condition is that any period of time in which the lender is precluded by the terms of an issue from exercising an op. ion to take up shares must not extend for longer than 2 years from the date on which the convertible securities are offered for subscription. While a 2 years no option period is thus permissible, once that period expires the option must be exercisable up to the 12 months period preceding the date of maturity of the borrowing, lt will not, however, affect the tax consequences if the option is exercisable at intervals of no more than 12 months, or at all times. These provisions seek to strike a balance between the financial needs and administrative convenience of borrowing companies and the interests of lenders to them. Allied with the option provisions I have been discussing is a condition that the last date for exercise of the option must be no later than 10 years after the date of offer of the convertible securities. It is considered that this span of time is wide enough to permit investment by a company in a development or expansion project to become profitable enough to justify a share issue. 
A further basic condition - as to borrowings on the Australian market - is that the period for which the borrowing is made must not be less than 7 years. This condition is not directly associated with taxation considerations. Its purpose rather is to ensure that companies, particularly foreign-controlled companies, that raise money on the Australian market, do not close off a loan, and thus the conversion option, before a project's development has reached the point where its future profitability is apparent to the Australian investor. 
The minimum borrowing period will not be a test applicable to overseas raising in foreign currency. The considerations that have been judged to make it appropriate for local raisings have no relevance to overseas raisings and, therefore, failure of an overseas raising to conform to a minimum duration will have no adverse tax consequences. Another condition of a corresponding nature is that, for local borrowings, the terms and conditions of the issue must be fixed - as to interest rates and general conversion terms - and not subject to variation, throughout the period of the currency of the borrowing. This has been judged to be desirable so as not ;o permit, for example, changes in terms and conditions designed to induce the Australian lender to exercise his option to convert earlier or later than he might otherwise do. It has the purpose of making the lender's option real and not merely illusory and. in this way, supports the purposes of the minimum borrowing period that I have already referred to. 
This condition has, however, been thought not to be an appropriate one to impose without modification for overseas raisings in foreign currency. Speaking broadly, it is a characteristic of certain types of overseas lendings that the loan contract provides that interest rates on the amounts lent are to be adjusted in relation to identifiable movements in particular international markets. The Bill provides that changes in interest rates on this basis will not have adverse taxation consequences in respect of overseas raisings in foreign currency. It also provides that any device incorporated in the terms of such an issue for the purpose of making the conversion terms less favourable the longer convertible securities are held will not affect tax deductions. From a revenue viewpoint, the sooner dividends become payable to overseas investors instead of interest the better. Australian tax collections from both the lender and the borrower increase when this happens. 
I turn now to the final basic condition. This is common to both local and overseas raisings and relates to the price at which convertible borrowings may be converted into shares. The Bill provides that the conversion price must not be less than 90% of the market price of fully paid shares of the relevant class at the date of offer of the convertible securities, or the par value of such shares, whichever is the greater. It is to be noted that this is a floor price and, subject only to these prescribed minima, the actual conversion price is a matter for the company making the issue of the securities. The shares into which the securities may be converted may be fully paid shares of the company that issued the securities or of another company, for example, a subsidiary, parent or associate. It will be of no significance whether the shares into which conversion is to be made on exercise of an op' ion are issued to. and owned by, a third party or are to be first allotted on the exercise of the option. 
The Bill provides machinery for the valuation of shares for the purposes of the conversion price test - both for shares quoted on Australian capital city stock exchanges and those not so quoted. For quoted shares, the valuation period will ordinarily be the month that ends 2 weeks before the date of offer of the securities for subscription. If the shares were not traded in that month, but were traded in either of the 2 preceding months, the later of the months in which trading took place will be the valuation period. The value of the shares will be determined as their weighted average market price on all capital city exchanges in the valuation period. For unquoted shares and quoted shares which have not been traded, provision is made for a valuation to be made by a registered company auditor in accordance with criteria specified in the Bill. 
The amendments proposed by the Bill will apply to convertible securities to which subscriptions are made after the legislation receives assent, whether the convertible borrowing is an entirely new one or one made to supplant an existing fixed-interest fixed-term borrowing. 
I have arranged for a memorandum giving comprehensive explanations of the technical provisions of the Bill to be circulated to members before it is debated.I mention that the conditions proposed to be attached to deductibility of interest on convertible securities correspond to a large degree with the terms on which this type of security has in the recent past been issued overseas. The Government feels that the plan which has been devised will be of considerable help to developing companies and, at the same time, present a barrier to unwarranted tax savings through companies using convertible borrowings in lieu of share issues. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proceedings of the Australian Loan Council are confidential and I am therefore unable to provide the information requested by the honourable member. 
The fact that we have had such a rise in prices and such very full employment indicates that the domestic surplus last year in fact was very necessary. The rest of the question asked by the honourable member consists of kite flying activities. He will have an opportunity during the course of the Budget debate to expand on his comments. 
The last words of the honourable member's question suggest that he knows the answer. The difficulty with which the Commonwealth Actuary is faced is that of recruiting additional actuaries. It is not to be supposed that necessarily the ideal actuaries will arrive here in Canberra just because we adopt the usual prescription of vastly increasing their salaries. For some time an effort has been made to recruit additional actuaries. If the honourable member is aware of any promising Tasmanians for the position will he kindly talk them into it? I will be very pleased to see them. 
 I have seen Press references to this proposed move. I have not yet received any official communication on the subject, but if I - did it would be quite a usual experience. There are now a number of merchant banks throughout the United States, Europe, Britain and Japan which have shown a very great interest in Australia. The honourable member referred to an invasion but it is a question of what we are invaded with. In many cases these institutions have invaded Australia with large amounts of capital which have been put to our own good use. In due course, if and when I do receive some official letter or request from this institution I will deal with it in the normal way. I say 'in the normal way' because it has become a very normal experience in the last 15 months, owing very largely to the faith that overseas investors and institutions have in the good government and stability of Australia. 
We shall be voting on Appropriation Bill (No. 1) which is for the current services of the Government and clearly in that there will not be a Receipts Duties Bil], where it does not belong. Following the vote tonight a series of Budget Bills will be introduced. The Appropriation Bill (No. 1), of course, covers only about one-half of the total outlay of the Commonwealth. The other Bills will come forward in the normal way and be presented to the House roughly in the kind of order which has been followed in the past. 
The answer to the honourable member's question  is as  follows: 
(a) Yes. 
Yes. 
Males over 65 years and females over 60 years are granted freedom from tax where the taxable income does not exceed $1,300 in the case of a single person and $2,262 for a married couple. In addition, reduced rates of tax apply to- 
a single taxpayer to whom the age allowance provisions apply where the taxable income is between $1,301 and $2,275; and 
a married taxpayer to whom the age allowance provisions apply where the combined taxable income of the taxpayer and dependent spouse exceeds $2,262 and the taxpayer's own taxable income does not exceed $4,121. 
Where the income of an aged person falls within die tax free limits, he is advised by the Taxation Office that it will not be necessary to lodge returns of income in any future year unless - 
he is desirous of obtaining a refund of tax instalment deductions; 
it becomes necessary as a result of changes in the age allowance provisions of the law or increases in the income of the taxpayer or spouse which result in the exemption levels being exceeded; or 
he is requested to do so by the Taxation Office. 
The taxpayer is also advised that in order to avoid tax instalment deductions being made from salary, wages or pension received by him in excess of $8 per week he should, at the beginning of each year, lodge with the person paying such income an age allowance declaration form. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has given close and recent consideration to the question of interest rates on housing loans. The statement which I made in the House on 12th March 1970 sets out in some detail the Government's views on housing loan interest rates. 
Proposals along these lines were among the very many requests received for new or extended taxation concessions which were considered in the recent budgetary context. 
Yes. 
It is estimated that the cost to income tax revenue of implementing the proposal in part (2) of the question would be about $70m per annum, on the basis of the rates of income tax on individuals proposed for the 1970-71 income year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has kept the situation in the building industry in Western Australia, as in the other States, under close examination. Officers from the Departments of Treasury and Housing have attended several meetings in recent months with representatives of building industry organisations to keep abreast of the latest information pertaining to trends in the industry. 
The Governor of the Reserve Bank announced on 23 July that savings banks had been requested to increase to the extent practicable the volume of their housing loans in coming months. The Governor pointed out that the savings banks would be making a substantial increase in their housing lending over the next few months and that this would give valuable support to the housing industry. 
In addition, it has been reported recently that the Rural and Industries Bank in Western Australia will make available $10m for housing during the current quarter, while the Western Australian State Government has also released a preliminary amount of over 82m to co-operative building societies as part of its 1970-71 CommonwealthState Housing Agreement allocation. 
As regards employment in the building industry in Western Australia, statistics released on 17th August by the Minister for Labour and National Service show that during July there was a sharp drop of 160 to 195 in the number of skilled building and construction workers registered as unemployed, and a rise of 22 to 123 in the number of jobs available , to such tradesmen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question . is as follows: 
Since 19th August 1969 statistics of income tax deductions' allowed in the returns of taxable indi, viduals have become available for the 1967-68 income year. 
Estimates of the cost to income tax revenue of deductions for the maintenance of dependants and other deductions in respect of which statistics were compiled for the 1967-68 income year are set out in. the following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is my understanding that members of the Professional Engineers' Association were each levied $10 to meet the cost of proceedings before the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission. 
The Commissioner of Taxation has stated that the levy is an allowable deduction for income tax purposes. 
The question whether income tax deductions would be allowable to members of the Employers' Federation for the cost of arbitration proceedings rests with the Commissioner of Taxation who is responsible for the Administration of the taxing laws. 
As the Commissioner has already ruled that the levy paid by members of the Professional Engineers' Association is deductible the need to consider whether the law should be amended does not arise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following tables bring up to date the answer supplied to the honourable member by my predecessor on 12 August 1969 in relation to numbers of taxpayers, income and income tax payable in Australia, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Canada. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act do not extend to the New Hebrides, the Commissioner of 'luxation is unable to furnish the information requested. 
Of course, the honourable member just picks out one item, namely, pensioners, which he thinks has a highly coloured political application. The basic overall Budget policy was for a balanced Budget. The Budget and all subsequent policy will aim at containing inflation. This in fact has been contained in reasonably good degree over the last few months. 
The position following a conference with the States regarding receipts duty is not by any means as yet wholly clear. The State budgets were for the most part formulated on the basis that they would continue to receive receipts duty at the full rate for the whole of this financial year, 1970-71. It now seems probable that these receipts may well cut out by about the end of September and that the States in this case would enjoy only the receipts of one quarter instead ofthe receipts for a whole year. The precise position is by no means clear nor is the effect that it will have on the States' finances if this comes to pass. 
During the next few weeks, officials of our Treasury will have discussions in detail with each of the State Treasurers when the position will be worked out in detail. Until that has been done, the precise position is not clear. But it- 
The honourable member yells out: '$50m' Where does he get his $50m from? Is this a calculated figure or a bit of rubbish that he has picked up from the newspapers? I suspect the latter. In due course, the figure will emerge and action will be taken accordingly. The purpose of the Budget was to restrain the excessively-rising tide of demand and this the Government in the Budget and by other measures has succeeded in doing. This will continue to be the policy. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank has provided the following information: 
and (2) The term 'merchant bank' is currently used in Australia by such a wide range of financial institutions that it is difficult to identify the particular institutions in respect of which information is sought Moreover, many institutions which might be classed as merchant banks have not been operating in Australia for a sufficiently long period for annual accounts covering a full year's operations to be available. Table No. 1 shows the published information available on private trading banks' investments in some financial institutions of these types as at June 1970. However, published information makes incomplete references to the amount of capital subscribed by banks to these institutions; banks are not obliged to publish details of such investments or dividends received. 
Table No. 2 brings up to- date, as far a* practicable, the information on other bank investments given in the earlier answer referred to. No information is available regarding dividends received by banks from unit trust, development corporation or factoring organisations, while published information makes incomplete reference* to capital subscribed by the banks to unit trusts and factoring organisations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under Section 114 of the Constitution property of the Crown in right of Hie Commonwealth is not subject to local government rating. However, the Commonwealth pays, ag an act of grace, the equivalent of rates on certain classes of properly. 
Circumstances in which payments are made to local authorities by the Commonwealth on this basis include: 
Housing for employees-AO amount equivalent to the rates assessed is paid to the local governing body in respect of houses erected or purchased by the Commonwealth  which are used solely for domestic purposes; no payment is made when the residence forms part of a building used for official purposes. 
Leased Commonwealth properly - if the lessee or tenant pays to the Commonwealth, either as a separate amount or within his rental, the equivalent of rates, the Commonwealth pays that equivalent to the rating authority. - (iii) War Service Homes - rates are payable on all War Service Home*. However, the War Service Homes Division does not pay rates on vacant land of which it is the registered proprietor. 
Properties acquired by the Commonwealth - a payment is made to the local authority where the Commonweatlh acquires land on which residential or business premises are erected and where the premises are occupied by persons other than the Commonwealth. 
Commonwealth instrumentalities - a Commonwealth instrumentality that is engaged m commercial enterprise in competition with private firms or organisations, and either owns property or leases property from the Commonwealth, pays to the local authority an amount equivalent to the rates assessed on the property. 
Construction of roads, footpaths, kerbing or guttering on land abutting Commonwealth property - an amount is paid equal to the sum which would have been payable to the local authority under the appropriate Slate legislation had the land been privately owned, subject to the reasonableness of the charge made by the local authority. No contribution is made for repairs or maintenance. 
Payments are also made for any services rendered by a rating authority, such as the supply of water, sewerage, electricity or the collection of garbage. - Army Land: Liverpool-Holsworthy Area (Question No. 1778) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not selected the home building sector for use as an instrument to dampen down the economy in the past, nor is lt likely to do so in the future. 
In fact, activity in the dwelling industry (as shown by the figures of investment expenditure) has tended to grow fairly steadily from year to year, despite quarter to quarter variability shown by the figures for dwelling approvals and commencements. This is because there is, at any one time, a considerable stock of dwellings under construction, which provides a 'cushion' to smooth out activity in times of rapid variation in approvals and commencements. 
The fact is that the dwellings sector of the building industry has enjoyed reasonably stable growth over the years. Investment expenditure on dwellings has increased in each year since 1961-62, and in 1969-70 was one of the fastest-growing forms of expenditure. 
In the private sector, investment in dwellings has grown over the past fifteen years, at an average rate similar to that of investment in other building and construction, but its growth has been significantly more stable. Even in the June quarter, 1970 (when financial constraints had a quick dampening effect on private new dwelling approvals and commencements) activity remained high, investment in dwellings being up 9 per cent on the corresponding quarter of 1969. 
In the speech alluded to, the concluding note was that 'the basic problem in housing is to obtain a sufficient share of the national income for the purpose. Housing is, and is likely to remain, in strong competition with other pressing demands on our resources'. The following figures indicate how housing has fared relative to other demands on resources in the year since that speech was made (1956-66): 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for a contribution by Australia of the equivalent of $US10m to the special funds of the Asian Development Bank. As honourable members will be aware, Australia is a foundation member of the Asian Development Bank which opened for business in Manila in December 1966. Membership of the Bank now totals 35 countries, 21 of which (including Australia) are in the Asian region and 14 outside it. Total capital subscriptions to the Bank at the present time amount to $US1 ,004m, only half of which is, however, payable. The balance will remain at call as security for any borrowings by the Bank on international capital markets to supplement its subscribed capital. As indicated in the following table which, with the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard. Australia's subscription of $US85m to the capital stock of the Bank is exceeded only by those of the United States, Japan and India. 

<graphic href="070131197010140_13_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="070131197010140_13_1.jpg"></graphic>

I might perhaps add that the final instalment of Australia's subscription was paid in August of this year. 
The Asian Development Bank is empowered under its Articles of Agreement to conduct both 'ordinary operations' and special operations'. In the case of 'ordinary operations' the Bank lends on commercial terms - the standard lending rate by the Bank at the present time is 7i per cent per annum, with repayments spread over 10 to 25 years including grace periods ranging from 2 to 5 years, depending on the nature of the project involved. The Bank has to finance such loans either by drawing on paid-in capital subscriptions or by using funds raised for this purpose by selling bonds on the capital markets of the world. 
To date, the Bank has successfully floated 2 such bond issues. In 1969 it raised a loan equivalent to $US16m in the Federal Republic of Germany and in April 1970 it borrowed the equivalent of $US5m in Austria. Efforts are being made to float bond issues in other capital markets in order to establish the Bank's standing in the international financial community and enable it to borrow funds to finance its normal lending activities in much the same way as the World Bank now does. 
In the case of 'special operations' the Bank lends on concessional terms and can finance such loans in part from its paid-in capital (10 per cent of which can be set aside specifically for this purpose) but more importantly by drawing on resources contributed to special funds by its member countries. The terms of the loans financed from special funds to date have involved rates of interest ranging from  lb  per cent to 3 per cent per annum with periods of repayment extending from 16 to 40 years including grace periods of from 4 to 10 years. I would emphasise that special funds are employed only to finance high priority development projects which meet the same technical standards and satisfy the same economic criteria as projects financed from the Bank's other resources. 
In a sense, special funds are to the Asian Development Bank what the International Development Association is to the World Bank group of institutions, namely, a means by which assistance can be provided on more liberal terms than apply to normal loans by the respective banks. By a skilful blending of 'ordinary operations' and 'special operations' the Asian Development Bank is able to reduce the average costs of its overall lending to developing member countries to more manageable levels. To date the Bank has approved loans to a total value of $US184m, of which $US35m will be financed from special funds on concessional terms. 
To assist the Bank in meeting the growing demands on its own limited special funds resources, Canada, Denmark, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States have all made or offered to make voluntary contributions to the Agricultural Special Fund and/or the Multi-Purpose Special Fund. In addition, each of these countries, along with Finland. Germany, India and New Zealand has contributed to the Technical Assistance Special Fund. Details are set out in the following table, which with the concurrence of honourable members I also incorporate in Hansard. 

<graphic href="070131197010140_14_2.jpg"></graphic>

In recognition of the important role which the Asian Development Bank has to play in promoting economic development in the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East - ECAFE - region, and the great need of many of its developing member countries for external assistance on concessional terms so as not to exacerbate their growing external debt servicing problems, the Government decided earlier this year that subject to the approval of Parliament, Australia should contribute the equivalent of $US10m (about $A8.9m) to special funds over this and the next 2 financial years. I made an announcement to this effect at the third annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Bank in Seoul last April. Of this amount, it is intended that $US9,750,000 will be allocated to the Multi-Purpose Special Fund and be paid in 3 equal annual instalments commencing in 1970-71, while the balance of SUS250,000 will be allocated to the Technical Assistance Special Fund. No restrictions will be placed on the rate at which the latter sum may be used by the Bank. 
Except as otherwise agreed by the Government of Australia, the proposed contribution to the Multi-Purpose Special Fund will be tied to the procurement of goods produced in, or services supplied from. Australia. Likewise, the contribution to the 
Technical Assistance Special Fund may be used only to pay for the services of Australian consultants and experts hired by the Bank in connection with its technical assistance activities. No restrictions will be placed on the developing member countries of the Bank in which these contributions may be used, although the Bank will be asked to pay special regard to the needs of less developed countries in South East Asia and the Pacific region which are of special interest to Australia. 
This Bill provides us with a tangible opportunity to confirm Australia's continued strong support for the activities of the Asian Development Bank. The additional funds to be authorised by this Bill will not only add to the Bank's resources and permit a desirable expansion of its lending activities, they will increase the Bank's versatility and enable it to tailor the terms of its overall lending to the requirements and borrowing capacities of its developing member countries. There is no need for me to enlarge here on the great importance to Australia of the Bank succeeding in its efforts to help developing countries in Asia to achieve faster rates of economic growth, and so help to raise living standards throughout the ECAFE region. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
 I will endeavour to do so. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill, and of the 5 Bills j shall subsequently introduce, is to enable the States to receive, in respect of business receipts during the period 18th November 1969 to 30th September 1970, the amounts of duty they would have received had their own receipts duty laws been wholly valid. Business receipts during that period will be liable to duty under the Commonwealth legislation at the rate of 1 per cent, but this liability will not arise if the provisions of State laws - whether valid or invalid - are complied with. This means that receipts exempted or not dutiable under the provisions of state legislation will remain free of all receipts duties, lt also means that receipts in Queensland will remain liable to duty at the rate of .02 per cent provided for under Queensland legislation - provided Queensland duty is in fact paid on the receipts or has already been paid. 
Honourable members will observe that some changes have been made to the legislation since it was introduced during the last sittings and subsequently not passed by the Senate. Under clause 24(1.) of the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill, provision is made to limit the duty to moneys received before a date to be fixed by proclamation. The Government undertakes that this proclaimed date will be 1st October 1970. The decision so to limit the scope of the legislation is based on legal considerations of a constitutional nature. The same Bill also now specifies 30th September 1970 as the terminating date for the period - described in the bill as 'the transitional period' - during which receipts are to be exempt from liability under Commonweealth law if the provisions of State laws, whether valid or invalid, are complied with, lt will also be noted that 
I  here is now a separate Bill - the States Receipts Duties (Exemption) Bill - lo provide for exemption from duty under Commonwealth law for receipts during the transitional period where State duty was paid or was not payable. This provision was included as clause 88 in the previous States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill. Honourable members who wish to have more detailed explanations of the changes being made by the revised legislation can refer to the explanatory memorandum which is being circulated. 
Honourable members will be aware of the reasons why it is proposed that the legislation is to cease to have application to transactions after 30th September. They will also be aware that, after a special meeting with Premiers in Canberra on 8th October, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  announced that, at the request of the Premiers, the Commonwealth Government agreed to the State governments dropping the receipts duty completely, even in areas where it would be legal for them to impose it. This means that liability for receipts duty under either Commonwealth or State legislation will not apply to any transactions after 30th September 1970. 
The Government has agreed that the whole of the resultant loss of revenue to State Budgets in 1970-71 should be made good through the provision of additional Commonwealth grants to the States. The Government has also agreed that, in respect of 1971-72 and the 3 subsequent years, the amount of receipts duty which it is estimated would have been collected by the States in the ordinary course in 1970-71 should be added to (he base to be used in determining the financial assistance grants payable under the grants formula in those years. These arrangements, which the Government regards as constituting eminently fair and, indeed, generous treatment for the States, were made subject to the proviso on the part of the Commonwealth that they depended on the conditions governing the offers of the Commonwealth made at the June Premiers' Conference. Legislation to give effect to the arrangements will be introduced in due course. I commend the legislation to honourable members. 
 I do not have the figure precisely. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Gifts of S2 and upwards to a public library, public museum or public art gallery are allowable under section 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act as deductions for income tax purposes. Deductions are also available under this provision for gifts to such institutions of property purchased by the taxpayer within 12 months immediately preceding the making of the gift. No statistics are available that would enable a reliable estimate to be made of the loss to revenue that would result from extending the range of gifts deductible for income tax purposes to cover all gifts of the kind mentioned in the honourable member's question. 
Bequests of works of art lo public libraries or religious institutions are exempt from estate duty whether or not they are for exhibition in buildings or areas open to the public. Bequests of works of art to public museums and public art galleries in Australia are exempt from estate duty as bequests for public education purposes. No information is available on which a reliable estimate could be made of the loss lo revenue that would arise if the range of bequests exempt from estate duty were extended to cover all bequests of the kind referred to in the honourable member's question. 
I. move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second  time. 
In a statement to the House on 25th September 1969 the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  outlined the Government's proposals for the preservation of superannuation rights. As the Prime Minister then explained, the benefits provided by most superannuation schemes in Australia are payable on the employee's retirement, for example, at age 60 or 65 or prior to retirement only in the event of his invalidity or death. Employees leaving in any other circumstances, for example to take up employment elsewhere, usually receive only a refund of their own contributions, often without interest. That is, they do not receive any superannuation benefits from their employer for the years they have spent in his service. 
Because the value of an employee's interest in a superannuation scheme increases with his length of service, superannuation schemes that do not provide for preservation can operate as a very real barrier to the willingness of employees to move from one employer to another. This barrier to mobility has been a feature of most Commonwealth superannuation schemes since their inception. The Government's intention is to remove that barrier from Commonwealth schemes so that Commonwealth employees who have spent a considerable part of their working lives in one field of endeavour and who could contribute much more to the community and to their own lives in some other area of Commonwealth, State, university or private employment will no longer feel compelled, by the fear of the loss of thenaccumulated superannuation rights, to remain in their employment waiting only for the effluxion of time and the arrival of their date of retirement. 
This Bill amends the Superannuation Act  1922-1969  to extend preservation to the two retirement benefits schemes established under that Act - the superannuation fund and the provident account. I intend also to introduce later this day a companion Bill to amend the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act  1948-1970  to extend the preservation arrangements to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. A Bill to amend the Parliamentry Retiring Allowances Act  1948-68  is in course of preparation and will be introduced as soon as possible. Because the schemes covered by the three Acts are each quite different it follows that there should be differences between the provisions of each Bill. However, in terms of general principle, the approach being adopted is the same. The rules of other Commonwealth schemes will also be amended to provide for the preservation of superannuation rights in general accord with the provisions of this Bill. When these schemes have been amended preservation of superannuation will be available to some  300,000  contributors to Commonwealth superannuation schemes.  1  shall deal first wilh outwards preservation for employees leaving the Superannuation Fund or the Provident Account under the Superannuation Act. Under the provisions of the bill such an employee will be able to move to an area of Commonwealth employment to which the Superannuation Act does not apply without loss of his accumulated superannuation interest or stake in it - including the employer share of that interest or stake - provided the period between employment is not longer than  3  months. In addition, an employee who moves to public employment with the States, including State universities, within  3  months of ceasing his Commonwealth employment, will be able to preserve his superannuation rights. As well, an employee who resigns after completing  20  years service and moves to private employment or self employment, or does not engage in any other employment, will be able to take advantage of the preservation arrangements. 
Generally, preservation of superannuation rights under the Superannuation Act will be effected by means of transfer values or deferred benefits. Subject to the conditions  1  have outlined a transfer value will be payable to a Commonwealth or State superannuation scheme to which an employee moves, if that scheme has acceptable preservation arrangements; in other cases a deferred benefit will be available to the employee. To retain his right to this deferred benefit an employee who has not already completed  20  years service will need to remain in public employment until he does, or he attains the age of  60  years, so that he will not gain an advantage over an employee who continues as a contributor to the Superannuation Fund or the Provident Account. A deferred benefit will be payable in accordance with the normal provisions of the Superannuation Act, that is, at any age between  60  and  65  depending on the wish of the former employee. Earlier payment will be made subject to the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions in the event of invalidity before normal retirement or, in the event of the death of the employee, to an eligible widow or chihldren 
The preserved benefit, whether in the form of a transfer value or deferred benefit, will be determined by the Superannuation Board after receiving advice from an actuary and will include the appropriate Commonwealth supplement. The Commonwealth supplement will not be confined to service after the date of commencement of the new arrangements but will cover the full period of membership of the superannuation fund. The right to elect for preservation benefits on leaving the two schehmes has not been extended to a person who has attained the age of  60.  This is because such a person is already eligible to receive the employer contribution in his pension entitlement if he is a contributor to the 
Superannuation Fund, or in the lump sum payment if he is a contributor to the Provident Account. It will of course not be obligatory for an eligible employee to avail himself of the preserved benefit. He will continue to have the right to an immediate cash refund of his own contributions but, as a general rule, it will not be in his interest to take this refund and thereby forgo the right to receive an employer contribution. This, I am sure, will be clear from the following hypothetical examples of the deferred benefits that will be available to contributors to the Superannuation Fund. In providing these examples I should emphasise that each preservation benefit will require an individual assessment and will need to take into account such variable factors as age on entry to the Superannuation Fund, age at exit, whether the person is an age 60 or age 65 contributor, and his unit and contribution history. The examples assume that the person has contributed to his full unit entitlement throughout his membership and is now leaving the Fund. 
An age 60 contributor who entered the Fund in 1950 at age 20 contributing to 7 units, who is now receiving a salary of $4,500 a year and contributing to 34 units, would be eligible for a deferred pension commencing at age 60 of $1,326 a year. His contributions to the Fund to date would amount to $1,648. In the case of an age 65 contributor of the same age with similar service and unit history the deferred pension payable from age 65 would be $1,321 a year, and his contributions to date, $1,249. An age 60 contributor who entered the Fund in 1.940 at age 20 contributing to 4 units, who is now receiving a salary of $5,500 a year and contributing to 42 units, would be eligible for a deferred pension commencing at age 60 of $2,21.2 a year. His contributions to the Fund to date would amount to $3,780. In the case of an age 65 contributor of the same age with similar service and unit history the deferred pension payable from age 65 would be $2,105 a year and his contributions to date, $2,698. 
Turning now to inwards preservation, on becoming a contributor a person will have the right to choose to pay to the Superannuation Board any preserved superannuation rights received from his previous employment, including private sector employment, and to obtain credit in the Superannuation Fund or the Provident Account for the amount paid. In the Superannuation Fund the credit will be applied in the form of units and the new employee will then contribute only for the balance of his unit entitlement under that scheme. It follows from this that a person, who has available to him a preserved benefit in the form of a transfer value from his former scheme but does not choose to pay it to the Superannuation Fund, or has available to him a pension or a deferred benefit entitlement, will be restricted in the benefits available to him. The reason for this is to avoid his gaining an advantage over a person who brings a preserved right with him into the Fund or one whose whole membership has been with the Fund. In the case of the Provident Account the transfer value will form part of the benefit from that account. 
A person who enters the Superannuation Fund less than 20 years before he will reach his selected age for retirement contributes to a lower level of unit entitlement than otherwise. The Bill modifies this limiting provision by allowing a period during which a person was a member of another superannuation scheme that provided preservation benefits to be taken into account, in certain circumstances, in determining years of prospective service. 
The Bill provides that the valuation of preservation benefits on entry is  ip  be in accordance with acturial principles and practice and requires certain matters to be taken into account. In this way the rights of the employee himself, as well as those of continuing contributors to each scheme, will be protected. There will be no change in existing medical standards for entry into the Supperannuation Fund or Provident Account. But if it was necessary for an employee to pass a medical examination to become a contributor to his previous scheme the requirement to pass a further medical examination to eater the Superannuation Fund or the provident account may be waived subject to certain conditions being met regarding preservation benefits, the nature of the previous scheme and its medical standards for entry. This relaxation of the normal requirement will be available only if the period between leaving the employment to which the previous superannuation scheme applied and becoming an employee for the purposes of the Superannuation Act does not exceed 3 months and the termination of the previous employment was not on the grounds of invalidity. Existing transfer arrangements with the schemes of the  6  States will continue on the present 'knock for knock' basis. 
The Bill includes provisions to facilitate movements between the Commonwealth and universities. A person entering the Superannuation Fund or the Provident Account, who. as an alternative to other courses open to him, wishes to keep alive, and up to date, policies under the scheme known as the Federated Superannuation System for Universities - FSSU - or similar schemes will be able to transfer the policies to the Superannuation Board. He will pay contributions at least at the level at which he would have been required to contribute had his former scheme continued to apply to him and the Commonwealth will pay the premiums on the policies at the levels appropriate to his Commonwealth salary. If. before attaining age 60, he moves to employment to which FSSU or similar type policy arrangements apply, he will be able to take his policies with him as his preservation benefit, if he does not elect to do so and in all other circumstances the benefit will be that available from the Superannuation Fund or Provident Account. 
In accordance with the announcement already made the Bill provides for the benefits of preservation to be available to or in respect of persons who have entered or left the superannuation Fund or the Provident Account since 1st January 1970. J should mention that, the opportunity has been taken to remedy defects that have been found in sections 52 and 88 of the principal Act that relate to the rights of an employee who resigns to contest a parliamentary election. When these sections were inserted in (he Act in 1942 it was intended. as stated by the then treasurer, that they should provide cover for such a person in the event of invalidity or death between the times of his resignation and reinstatement in the Commonwealth Service. The replacement provisions in the Bill will achieve this. 
The main provisions of the Bill are explained in more detail in the explanatory memorandum that I have arranged to have distributed to honourable members. As the Prime Minister said in his statement last year, the Government believes that the arrangements now being made for preservation of superannuation rights in Commonwealth schemes mark an important step forward in the development of Australia. We believe that there are great advantages for our community from an interchange of employees between the Commonwealth, the States, the universities and industry and this Bill and related measures will do much to ensure that the Commonwealth's superannuation arrangements will not impede this. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
I agree to this. In fact, I think it is most desirable. Many people will not be fully acquainted wilh this Bill, which is a very difficult and complex one, until they can study it. lt is certainly not the desire of the Government or myself to rush this matter without giving honourable members an opportunity to consider the Bill properly. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a companion measure to the Superannuation Bill 1970 that I have just introduced and amends the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1970 lo give effect to the Government's proposals for the preservation of superannuation rights. Because the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme is different from the superannuation scheme, there are 2 important differences between the provisions of this Bill and the Superannuation Bill that 1 should explain. But, in terms of general principle, the approach adopted in the 2 Bills is the same. 
The first important difference is in the way credit is given for a transfer value paid to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. Under the Superannuation Bill credit for a transfer value paid into the superannuation fund will be granted in the form of units. The DFRB Scheme, however, pays more regard to length of service and, accordingly, the payment of a transfer value to the fund will be recognised by a credit of past service, which will be taken into account when determining the rate of contribution and establishing the period of service for pension purposes. Because, having met the minimum qualifying period of service for pension purposes, the pension of an officer is determined by the age at which he retires, the entitlement and contributions of an officer, who declines to pay into the DFRB Fund a transfer value from a previous scheme or who holds a pension or a deferred benefit, will be appropriately adjusted in the same way as the entitlement and contributions of a member of the superannuation fund, who declines to pay in a transfer value, will be adjusted. 
The second important difference is the time at which a deferred benefit will become payable in normal retirement circumstances. Under the Superannuation Act a deferred pension will be available from age 60 when an age retirement pension under that Act first becomes payable. Under the DFRB Scheme other rank members become entitled to pension on completing 20 years service for pension. For officers, pension is normally payable at the appropriate retiring ages, which range from 45 to 60 years, providing at least 15 years service for pension has been completed. Deferred benefits will be payable in accordance with these principles. For example, another rank member, who is entitled to receive a deferred benefit in the form of a pension and has completed 20 years eligible employment, will commence receiving that pension as from the date he would have completed 20 years service for pension had he remained in the defence force. In the case of an officer, his deferred pension will generally become payable when he reaches the retiring age for the rank that he held on leaving the defence force or, if he would not have completed 15 years service for pension at that time had he remained in the defence force, then from the time that he would have completed 15 years service for pension. 
A deferred pension will in any event be payable as from the time the former member attains the age of 60 years or earlier on invalidity or death. The contents of the Bill are explained in more detail in the explanatory memorandum that I have arranged to have distributed to honourable members. In common with the Superannuation Bill, the Bill provides for the benefits of preservation to be available to or in respect of persons who have entered or left the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund since 1st January 1970. The undertaking I gave to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in respect of the Superannuation Bill will apply to this Bill. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
As the honourable member may be aware, the Farm Development Loan Fund and Term Loan Fund were recently replenished to the extent of $63m. This arrangement was announced recently by the Governor of the Reserve Bank. Loans from these Funds are directed towards farm development and improving productivity rather than debt restructuring or any other such end. The honourable member will be aware also that a number of farm development loans have been granted for a period of 15 years or more. My colleague the Minister for Primary Industry is currently engaged in a study of farm reconstruction problems which, of course, would include debt restructuring. But this range of problems is rather separate from the area covered by term loans and farm development loans. As soon as the studies being conducted by the Minister for Primary Industry have been completed - they are being pursued as fast as is practicable - the results will come up for examination and review. 
The honourable member seems to have taken an inordinate time to bring this matter to my attention. If he will do so in detail I will certainly be interested to look at it I doubt very much whether the statement made by the American Ambassador and the facts as put out by the Commonwealth Statistician are irreconcilable. But if I have the statement in detail before me I will be able to give the honourable member an answer. 
 What the honourable member has just said is in fact true. There has been a considerable delay in the making of refunds this year. A number of factors are at work, the overwhelming one being, of course, industrial trouble which has delayed work in the Department. There are some other factors which have played a smaller part. The first is that the returns have, on the whole, been lodged at rather a slower rate this financial year than they were in the previous financial year. There has also been less overtime worked because last year a special effort was made to do the work quickly, which involved very heavy overtime costs. It was decided this year to keep the costs down. However, since the industrial trouble has finished considerable efforts have been made to speed up the forwarding of refunds and within a few weeks we expect to be back to proportionately the same position as we were in at that time last year. It is estimated that by the end of November 90 per cent of the refunds will have gone out. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is not available. 
Senators: Appointment by Governors (Question No. 1741) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is not available. 
Census: Housing and Personal Particulars  (Question No. 1875)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Where and when has the Statistician conducted trial surveys for the 1971 census. 
Which of the questions in the trial surveys has it been decided to omit from the 1971 census. 
Which of the questions in the trial surveys are still being considered for inclusion in the 1971 census. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that - 
Two trial surveys have been conducted for the 1971 Census of Population and Housing. The first was held in Sydney in July 1969, and the second in Melbourne in April 1970. 
The following questions were tested in either the Sydney or Melbourne surveys but have been omitted from the schedule for the 1971 Census: 
I present the following paper: 
Taxation - Forty-ninth Report of the Commissioner of Taxation dated 1st October 1970. and move: 
That the report be printed. 
Honourable members will recall that it is the practice of the House to agree forthwith to the motion to print this paper so that it may be covered by parliamentary privilege. This course has the concurrence of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  When the motion to print is agreed to, the report will be circulated immediately. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment in 1970-71  at  special grants of $5m to South Australia and $13,680,000 to Tasmania. These payments are in accordance with the recommendations by the Commonweatlh Grants Commission contained in its thirty-seventh report, which has already been tabled. The Bill also seeks authority for payment of advances to the 2 States in the early months of 1971-72 pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations for that year and the enactment of new legislation. 
Special grants are paid to financially weaker States, the purpose being to compensate them for such factors as lower capacity to raise revenue from their own resources and higher costs in providing Government services of a standard similar to those in the financially stronger States. 
When specal grants were first paid they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance paid to the financially weaker States for this purpose. The main way in which special compensatory assistance is now provided is through the higher per head financial assistance grants paid to the four less populous States. The financial assistance grants are, of course, the main general revenue grants to the States. The special grants, therefore, may be regarded as supplementing the financial assistance grants, and having the special characteristic of being independently and expertly assessed by the Grants Commission. 
Up to 1959, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania received annual special grants on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. South Australia withdrew from the special grants system as from 1959-60 and Western Australia as from 1968-69, but Tasmania has continued to apply each year. South Australia reapplied for a special grant early this financial year. The background to that application was set out in the second reading speech introducing the States Grants Bill 1970. The method used by the Grants Commission, briefly put, is to calculate grants which will bring the claimant States' budgetary positions up to those of the States taken as standard, after allowing for differences between the States concerned in financial practice and in efforts to raise revenue and control expenditure. This involves a detailed comparison of the standard and claimant States' budgetary revenues and expenditures. 
From 1959-60 the standard States have been New South Wales and Victoria. The Commission, in recent reports, had contemplated changing to a standard based on the experience of all the non-claimant States as from 1970-71. However, in this year's report, the Commission states: 
In the circumstances of the new financial assistance arrangements the Commission is inclined to the view that a two-State standard may be the more logical and convenient to use, and in recommending the advance grant for 1970-71 it has bad this in mind. However, it considers that it should not make a final decision on the matter at this stage, and it will give further consideration to the budget standard during the course of the hearings later this year and in 1971. 
The particular aspect of the new arrangements the Commission bad in mind was the Commonwealth's decision to make addi tional grants of $2 per head to New South Wales and Victoria and, at the same time, to allow the other States to apply for special grants. Under the previous arrangements, all States that had not been applying for special grants were expected to continue to refrain from doing so. The Commission has not announced any other major changes in principle or method in this year's report, but the report does reflect the continuing effort by the Commission to refine the bases of its calculations. The recommendations by the Grants Commission for payment of special grants consist of 2 parts. One part is based on an estimate of the claimant State's financial need in the current financial year, and is treated as an advance payment subject to adjustment 2 years later when the Commission has compared in detail the budget results and standards of effort and of services provided in that year for both the claimant State and the States which it takes as standard. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance payment made 2 years earlier and is known as the completion payment. 
For 1970-71 the Grants Commission has recommended a total special grant to Tasmania of $23,680,000, made up of an advance payment of $22m for 1970-71 and a final adjusting payment of $1,680,000 in respect of 1968-69. The basis of these recommendations is set out in the Commission's report. As explained in the second reading speech introducing the States Grants Bill 1970, the Government decided, following a request by the Premier of Tasmania, to reduce by $10m the special gram recommended by the Grants Commission for payment to that Slate in 1970-71 and to add the same amount to its financial assistace grant, thereby incorporating it in the base to be used to calculate the State's financial assistance grant for 1971-72 and subsequent years. This arrangement will not affect the total general revenue grants paid to Tasmania either in 1970-71 or later years. That total will continue to be determined, in effect, by the special grant approved each year on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. Under this arrangement, Tasmania's special grant for 1970-71 is thus reduced from the amount of $23,680,000 recommended by the Commission to $13,680,000. With the concurrence of the House, I incorporate in Hansard a table which compares the amounts recommended for payment to Tasmania in 1970-71 with those paid in 1968-69 and 1969-70. 

<graphic href="070131197010221_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

South Australia's application for a special grant was supported, as is the usual practice, by a detailed submission. This was discussed at special hearings of the Commission in August. The basis of that submission was that, since 1959, the State's relative financial position had deteriorated while its share of the general revenue grants had, for a number of reasons, declined. The State submitted that, as a result, it was now unable to provide services of the same standard as the richer States. The Commission was, of course, able to make only preliminary investigations into South Australia's application and the recommended advance grant of 35m to South Australia, along with the advance of $12m to Tasmania, will be subject to adjustment in 1972-73 after a detailed examination of the 2 States' relative financial positions over the next 2 years. Those adjustments could be either positive or negative. 
In the second reading speech on the States Grants Bill 1970 it was mentioned that the Government was consulting with the States on the suggestion made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  at the June Premiers' Conference that, in addition to its responsibility for recommending annual special grants to claimant States, the Grants Commission might also have the task of investigating and recommending on the distribution of the general revenue grants between all States for purposes of the quinquennia] reviews of the arrangements. The question of the appropriate distribution of general revenue grants between the States is one that is both important and difficult. The Government is pleased to acknowledge the considerable contribution which the Grants Commission continues to make. The recommendations of the Grants Commission have been adopted by Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should again be accepted on this occasion. Accordingly, I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As advised in the answer to Question 1018, the costs are taxed where there is a disagreement between the parties as to the amount of the costs. In the - last 10 years there were only 3 appeals under the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act to a Supreme Court and in all 3 cases, the costs awarded against the Commonwealth were agreed on and were not taxed. 
Yes. However, from the records available it is not possible to state the exact number of cases in which this has occurred. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However the Bill in question, the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970, is still before the House and therefore the question of its re-introduction does not arise. 
Yes. A reply was sent shortly after 1 returned from overseas. 
(a) See answer to (2). 
Submissions for amendment of the Bill have been made not only by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations but also by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and various other interested parties. While the Government is concerned that the legislation shall be enacted at the earliest possible time it is equally concerned that these numerous submissions, the majority  ot  which suggest significant modifications to the Bill and some of which involve important questions of principle, shall be fully and carefully examined. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Calendar year figures are not available for al] of the series requested by the honourable member. To facilitate comparison, therefore, the fiscal year figures have been converted to indexes for each particular series,  1949-50  being taken as the baseyear for the time span to  1959-60,  and  1959-60  as the base-year for the second decade to  1969-70. 
PRODUCTIVITY 
There are, of course, a multitude of concepts relating to productivity, varying according to their coverage of industry, the work-force and even their - basic unit of reference (i.e. whether per worker, per man hour, etc.). The index that has been derived in this instance is primarily a measure of national productivity, calculated as gross national product at constant prices per person at work. 
The series for 'persons at work' used in this calculation was derived, for the period  1948-49  to  1964-65,  from the Statistician's monthly series of civilian employees and defence forces and from Census work-force counts for groups not covered by the civilian employment series. This series was linked with estimates for more recent years derived from the civilian labour force as measured by the Labour Force Surveys combined with figures for the defence forces. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total benefit to individual taxpayers arising from the reduction in income tax rates for the 1970-71 income year is estimated to be $289m. 
and (3) The number of taxpayers who had actual incomes in 1969-70 income year falling within the rages mentioned by the honourable member and the amounts of the reduction in income tax payable by these taxpayers on their 1970-71 incomes are estimated to be as follows: 
It is most unlikely that 1 could provide any such estimate before the House rises. If the Leader of the Opposition likes to give me the particulars of any scheme, so that it is carefully delineated, I can then have the costs estimated, but unless he produces this, such an exercise is not possible. 
The nature of the honourable member's question suggests that he is totally unfamiliar with the statistical process and with what can reasonably be calculated and not calculated. What I would point to, however, is the tremendous danger which threatens Australia from exorbitant wage awards and the various concessions which have been made on the industrial front. These are proceeding at such a rate that they threaten the whole stability of our currency and if they are continued for much longer, particularly in conjunction with serious disruptive strikes which interfere with the course of production, we shall see a quite inordinate rise in prices. The major threat to our economy and stability at the moment is from the cost side. These exorbitant rises in wages and salaries put tremendous pressure on costs which, in turn, will inevitably raise prices. What the ultimate outcome will be really depends on whether the community is prepared to have a little more discipline in its economic arrangements or to succumb to chaos, and it will succumb to chaos if it bows down completely before the systematic policy of the extreme left of the Australian Labor Party and the trade unions which control it and direct its main policy. Until and unless this process is resisted we face a very dubious immediate future. 
Pursuant to section 134 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1969, I present the forty-seventh annual report of the Superannuation Board for the year ended 30th June 1969. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950 I present the annual reports of the Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund, the Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund and the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with the reports of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the funds. 
I move: 
The the Bill be now read a second time. The Bill seeks parliamentary approval to borrowings by the Commonwealth of up to $US125m for the purchase of defence equipment in the United States of America. Under the Loan (Defence) Act 1966, the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US450m to assist in the purchase of defence equipment in the United States. Those borrowings were almost completely committed by orders placed up to the end of December 1969. Under the Loan (Defence) Act 1970, the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US89m to finance orders for general defence equipment placed with United States suppliers for the remainder of 1969-70. Orders approximately equal to the amount of that credit had been placed in the United States by about the end of June, and negotiations have commenced for a further credit to cover orders placed during 1970-71. The present Bill will provide the necessary authority to enter into an agreement for this further credit. The loans arranged under the 1966 and 1970 Acts were all with the Export-Import Bank of the United States. They were used for the purchase of general defence equipment and, in the case of loans arranged under the 1966 Act, for some payments of the FI 1 1 aircraft. 
The Loan (Defence) Act 1968 provided for the borrowing by the Commonwealth of an amount of $US75m to assist in financing the purchase of FI 1 1 aircraft. No drawings have yet been made against that loan. The Export-Import Bank of the United States has agreed to provide the loan funds to be raised under this legislation although the full terms and conditions of the credit have yet to be settled. Repayment will be made over 7 years and it will carry an interest rate of 7.375 per cent or 7i per cent - the current rate for loans of this type made by the Bank. The Bill has been drafted to provide authority for the Commonwealth to accept the usual provisions of Export-Import Bank loan agreements. It is similar in all respects, except for the amount and the title, to the Loan (Defence) Act (No. 1) 1970. 
Since the borrowing is for defence purposes the approval of the Australian Loan Council is not required. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Royalties. The Department of National Development has furnished me with the following figures for 1968-69- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician advises that figures of semi-government revenue similar to those provided in answer to question No. 52 (Hansard, 5 May 1970) generally become available within 7 to 8 months after the close of the financial year. 
The Acting Statistician further advises that figures of local government revenue similar to those provided in answer to question Nos 52 and 54 (Hansard, 5 May 1970) generally become available 20 months after the end of the financial year to which they relate. 
With regard to local and semi-government debt, information such as that provided in answer to question No.53 (Hansard, 15 May 1970) is available for all States except New South Wales within 18 to 20 months of the end of the finan cial year to which the figures relate. Information for New South Wales generally becomes available after a further delay of 4 to 6 months 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Actuary has already commenced work on the Ninth Quinquennial investigation of the Superannuation Fund for the period 1st July 1962 to 30th June 1967. 
(a) The investigation cannot be completed until all the data required by the Actuary has been made available to him by the Superannuation Board. A large proportion of the necessary data has already been furnished by the Board, but additional material, related to the retrospective application of the non-contributory provisions of the scheme (Act No. 26 of 1969), is not expected to be available until the end of this year. In the normal course, the Actuary's Report could be expected to be available by the end of the second quarter of 1971. 
It should not be assumed that this actuarial investigation will disclose surplus assets which would lead to adjustments in existing Commonwealth Superannuation Fund pensions. In any case, increases in these pensions are not usually met from the accumulated contributions in the Superannuaton Fund but direct from Consolidated Revenue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Ambulance services which qualify as public benevolent institutions are exempt from income tax on any income derived. Donors who make gifts of S2 and upwards to an ambulance service which is classified as a public benevolent institution are allowed income tax deductions for such gifts. 
Ambulance services in this category are nol liable for pay-roll tax and are entitled to exemption from sales tax on goods purchased for their use and not for resale. Other ambulance societies are not exempt from pay-roll tax but are entitled to exemption from sales tax on machinery and equipment for use in connection with the preservation of human life or the transport of persons for the purposes of medical or surgical treatment. 
The New South Wales Ambulance Service Board which conducts ambulance services throughout New South Wales is accepted as a public benevolent institution and is. therefore, exempt from pay-roll tax and from sales tax on goods for its own use and not for resale, lt is also exempt from income lax and gifts to it of $2 and upwards are allowable deductions. 
(a) Ambulance services which qualify as public benevolent institutions are exempt from pay-roll tax but other ambulance services are subject to payroll tax. 
Ambulance societies, whether public benevolent institutions or not, are exempt from sales tax on the purchase of ambulances. 
Ambulance services are not entitled to duty-free petrol. A duty-free concession is provided in Excise Item 10a (and in an equivalent Customs Tariff item) in respect of articles being the property of the Commonwealth Government. Under these provisions, a Commonwealth ambulance service such as operated in the Australian Capital Territory by the Department of Health would be entitled to duty-free petrol. 
Periodical subscriptions which entitle contributors to be provided with ambulance facilities as required are not allowable deductions for income tax purposes. 
The provision of ambulance services in the States is the responsibility of the respective State Governments and I am not, therefore, in a position to comment on their financial condition. For the same reason the Commonwealth has consistently refused to make grants to State ambulance services or to provide indirect assistance through further taxation concessions of the kind implicit in the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When new pay rates are proposed for staff employed under the Public Service Act the approval of the Treasurer is sought to meet the total additional liability. It is the practice for the Treasury, in conveying advice of the approval to the Public Service Board, to add that departments may pay the increases from existing appropriations and that additional funds will be provided, upon application, from the Treasurer's Advance pending parliamentary appropriation. 
There is no record of funds not having been provided to meet the cost of new pay rates. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Agreement was signed for and on behalf of the Commonwealth by the then Prime Minister on 18th October 1961 and was incorporated in the Coal Loading Works Agreement (New South Wales) Act 1961. 
The following terms and conditions were included in the Agreement: 
The loan together with a grant from the Coal Industry Fund of the Joint Coal Board was to be made available to the State to help meet expenditure by the State on coal loading works at the ports of Newcastle, Port Kembla and Balmain. The works covered by the Agreement consisted of- 
At Newcastle and Port Kembla - the provision of new coal loading plant and ancillary works, including wharfage, rail, road and storage facilities, capable of loading coal onto a ship at a rate of at least 1,500 tons per hour. 
At Balmain - the improving of coal loading plant and ancillary works, including rail and storage facilities, so that they would be capable of loading coal onto a ship at a rate of 1,000 tons per hour. 
The total amount of the loan was not to exceed $3. 3m and the total amount of the grant from the Coal Industry Fund was not to exceed $2m. (These amounts were paid to the State over the years 1961-62 to 1965-66 inclusive.) 
The loans bore interest at the rate of 5) per cent per annum from the date of each advance and each loan was repayable in equal semi-annual amounts over 10 years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 do not regard it as a proper discharge of my functions to bring up to date estimates prepared privately and without official confirmation or endorsement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the present law travelling expenses associated with medical treatment are not allowable as deductions for income tax purposes. 
The question of allowing such expenses has been examined many times, the most recent being when the 1970-71 Budget was in preparation. Although the Government has not seen fit to date to propose their allowance, the matter will be kept under review. 
I do not agree that the present order of things has quite the effect that the honourable member suggests. The fact is that these seasonal fluctuations have been part of the Australian financial scene for many years, and established financial institutions and other people concerned have, over the years, become adjusted to the fact that there will be considerable fluctuations as, indeed, there are heavy seasonal fluctuations because crops ripen at certain times of the year and sheep tend to be clipped at one stage rather than another during the year. We have given considerable thought to ways in which swings of taxation can be modified. This is a complex problem, not easy to solve. 
Those who pay under the pay as you earn system of taxation normally are anxious to obtain their refunds if over the year their deductions amount to more than their tax liabilities. It is not easy to bring these closer in line because of the varying circumstances of individuals but we have in mind, and do, in fact, practise, some measures to endeavour to soften the fluctuation. The really reputable financial institution is aware of this and calculates its business accordingly. The system does, very largely, adjust itself to the state of affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following Banks, whose head offices are not in Australia, have authorities under the Banking Act 1959-1967 to carry on banking business in Australia: 
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited (came into operation on 1st October 1970 following the merger of Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited and The English, Scottish and Australian Bank Limited). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The full-year cost in 1970-71 of  increasing  the weekly rates of child endowment by $1 per child is estimated to be $216m. 
The costs to income tax revenue of deductions allowable for the maintenance of dependants for the 1970-71 income year, at the rates of  tax  for the 1970-71 income year, are estimated to be as follows: 
all  dependants$275m; 
dependent children $157m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of authorities in each State classified by the Commonwealth Statistician as local government authorities at 30th June 1970 was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
This question was one of several new Census questions which were tested in the Sydney trial survey of July 1969. 
Subsequently it was decided to exclude this question and a number of other questions from the 1971 Census of Population and Housing schedule. It was appreciated that if these data were obtained from the Census it would serve a number of worthwhile purposes. However, it was considered that there should be limits to the amount and type of information sought in a Census. 
In considering what new questions should be added to the 1971 Census Schedule, the Government was aware of the danger that the Census could become too great an imposition on the community and was conscious of the sensitivity of people to enquires about their private affairs. 
Consequently, each of the questions proposed for inclusion in the Census was examined closely and special attention was given to the need to obtain a balance between government and private requirements for statistics in various fields and the degree of intrusion into the privacy of the individual. 
It is considered that the questions to be asked in the 1971 Census provide such a balance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
See answer to question 2148. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
See answer to question 2148. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a reply to the honourable member in Hansard on 16th November 1964 on this subject the then Treasurer advised as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician informs me that because of the inherent shortcomings of such measures, and, to some extent because of data deficiencies, he does not envisage publishing an official statistical series purporting to measure labour productivity. Work is continuing on expanding and improving the data available in production and other series usually considered in studies of productivity.' 
This continuing work has included the preparation and publication of estimates of gross national product at constant prices (rebased to 1966-67), of gross product by industry at constant prices, of indexes of factory production, of re-based series of numbers of wage and salary earners in employment, and of the Australian labour force. 
In its submissions in recent National Wage Hearings the Commonwealth has provided estimates of the change in gross national product at constant prices per person at work. These estimates have been derived using gross national product at constant prices and employment figures from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. I refer the honourable member also to the answer to question No. 1821, Fart (1). asked by the member for Melbourne Ports which appeared in Hansard on 27th October 1970. 
I am advised by the Statistician that he intends to examine during 1971 the desirability of compiling and publishing measures of change in product per unit of labour force, despite their significant conceptual limitations. This examination will be in the light of data developments, and of practices which have become conventional in many countries. It is proposed to consider together measures at the levels of major industries as well as that of gross national product It will be necessary to give attention to technical problems including some that arise from the changes and developments associated with the introduction (as from 1968-69) of the integrated economic censuses. The Statistician does not expect to resolve these matters until after the forthcoming rebasing of his factory production indexes as at 1968-69. This work is expected to be completed during the second half of 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that because of the many heavy demands on Bureau resources, it has not been possible to undertake any of the further developmental work required to obtain more complete and detailed statistics of superannuation funds and contributors. 
Consideration was given to the inclusion of a question in the 1971 Census to obtain information on numbers of contributors. However, to lessen the burden on the public and to avoid intrusion into the privacy of individuals, the Government considered that it should not be added to the Census schedule on this occasion. 
The position is therefore still as stated in my reply of 26th September 1969 to question number 1876. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Cmmonwealth Statistician has provided the following list of authorities classified as semi-government for national accounts purposes. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
See answer to question 2148. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
See answer to question 2148. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The available information relating to the honourable member's question is set out below. The figures have been taken as far as possible from information published in the budget papers 'National Income and Expenditure 1969-70' and 'Commonwealth Finance 1969-70, Bulletin No. 8'; however, in some cases the published information has been supplemented by unpublished figures prepared by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician. All the figures relate to 1968-69, the most recent year for which all the detailed information that is available has been published or compiled. Much of the information sought by the honourable member - especially in relation to the lending and investing activities of the Commonwealth Banks - is either not collected or not available in the detail necessary for certain parts of the question to be satisfactorily answered. 
(i) Total interest paid by Commonwealth authorities as shown in 'National Income and Expenditure 1969-70', Table 10, amounted to $26m. This figure relates mainly to interest on government securities, and was arrived at after offsetting receipts of interest from State, local and semigovernment authorities amounting to $65m. This latter amount consists of interest on advances made by the Commonwealth to the States, particularly advances under the Commonwealth-State Housing agreements. Information is not available to divide interest paid by Commonwealth authorities between A, B and C. The amount of tax paid by private interests on interest received from Commonwealth authorities is not available. 
Total receipts of interest by Commonwealth authorities in 1968-69, excluding interest received from State, local and semi-government authorities referred to in (a) (i), amounted to $21m. This amount consists largely of the net profit of the Note Issue Department of the Reserve Bank, which is treated as interest for national accounting purposes, together with net interest on bank balances of Commonwealth authorities. 
(i) Total redemptions paid by Commonwealth authorities in respect of Commonwealth debt amounted to $20 lm in 1968-69. Of this total, $43m was in respect of redemption from Loan Fund; S62m related to redemptions and repurchases by the National Debt Sinking Fund; $17m represented cancellations by the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve; $13m was redeemed from the Swiss Loan Trust Account; $37m represented repayments of borrowings under the Defence Credit arrangements with the United States of America; and $28m was repaid in respect of borrowings on behalf of Qantas, the Australian National Airlines and the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. Most of these redemptions were paid to private interests, including overseas lenders. 
Redemptions (i.e. repayments of advances) received during 1968-69 from State, local and semigovernment authorities amounted to $67m and from private interests to $46m. Repayments received from autonomous health, education and welfare organisations, and overseas aid recipients were negligible. 
(i) and (d) (i) Current (i.e. revenue) grants to the States from Commonwealth Government authorities amounted to $l,155m in 1968-69. Grants to the States from Commonwealth revenue for capital purposes amounted to $264m during the same year. Grants to autonomous health, education and welfare organisations and overseas aid recipients totalled $169m in 1968-69, while transfer payments in the form of cash benefits to persons, subsidies to enterprises and other overseas contributions were $1,664 million. 
(ii) Total revenue (i.e. total receipts on current account) of Commonwealth authorities, as shown in National Income and Expenditure 1969-70' Table 10, was $5,784m in 1968-69. It is not practicable to divide this total between A, B and C. 
(fi) Receipts of grants by Commonwealth authorities during 1968-69 were negligible. 
(i) In national accounting terms, loan moneys (i.e. advances) paid to the States, excluding loans raised on behalf of the States to finance their Works programmes, amounted to $177m in 1968-69. Advances to private interests and overseas interests, other than aid recipients, totalled J 131m. Of this amount 361m relates to the timing difference between payments for and delivery of major items of defence equipment purchased overseas, this amount being itself offset in part by the delivery of other capital items (particularly civilian aircraft) purchased overseas for which part-payment had been made in advance. Advances to autonomous health, education and welfare organisations and overseas aid recipients were negligible in 1968-69. 
Total loan moneys received by Commonwealth authorities during 1968-69, excluding internal Treasury Bills and loans raised on behalf of the States to finance their Works programmes, were $1.09m. This figure cannot be divided between A, fi and C. Receipts of gifts by Commonwealth authorities were negligible in 1968-69. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided me with the following answer; 
Charitable organisations are not required to register in Tasmania, the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory. In other States, organisations wishing to appeal to the public for support towards charitable purposes are required to register with the appropriate State authority. There are differences in registration requirements and in arrangements for the renewal or cancellation of registrations. Therefore the numbers of registered organisations are not comparable from State to State. There are approximately 8,000 organisations registered in New South Wales with the Chief Secretary's Department, but -more than half are small and intermittent in making public appeals, such as parents and citizens associations and voluntary bush fire brigades. In Victoria, there were 1,411 institutions and benevolent societies registered with the Hospitals and Chari ties Commission in June 1969. In South Australia about 160 organisations are licensed, by an advisory committee under die Charitable Purposes Act, on a long-term basis for soliciting money or goods foi certain charitable purposes. Licences are also issued on a short-term basis for special collections, such as for Tasmanian bush fire relief. In Western Australia, the number of charitable organisations holding a licence from the Chief Secretary's Department at 16 June 1970 was 345. In Queensland the Department of Justice is responsible for registration of charitable organisations. On 16 June 1970, 573 organisations were registered as charities, and an additional 2,085 organisations, such as Apex and Kindergarten Associations, were sanctioned 'for community purposes'. 
Registered organisations are categorised into groups only in Victoria and in Queensland. 
In Victoria the groups are as follows, the numbers of organisations in each group at 30 June 1969 being shown in brackets: hospitals (160), benevolent homes (12), hostels for the aged (124), children's homes (56), foundling homes and refuges (15), rescue homes' (4), convalescent homes (1), blind, deaf and dumb institutions (6), medical dispensaries (2), institutes for maternal and infant welfare (4), philanthropic organisations and societies (295), church relief organisations (27), benevolent societies (76), training schools for nurses (3), nursing services and societies (4), bush nursing centres (20), ambulance services (24), hostels (11), creches (7), kindergartens (135), and organisations for the welfare of boys and girls (425). In Queensland, registered organisations are classified as charitable organisations or as community purpose organisation. 
Annual return of income and expenditure are required in New South Wales from registered charities with an annual income in excess of $8,000; in Victoria all registered institutions submit annual reports and audited financial statements; in South Australia financial statements must be submitted when required by the Minis :er (but such statements need only relate to the activity for which the licence was granted); and in Western Australia audited statements must be submitted when required by the Minister. 
The only available compiled information about income and expenditure relates to Victorian charitable institutions and benevolent societies subsidised for maintenance purposes. The figures for 1968-69, taken from the Twenty-first Report of the Hospitals and Charities Commission, were as follows: gross income S128.241.219; gross expenditure $126,639,791; excess of income over expenditure 91,601,428. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For purposes of this reply, State authorities have been divided into four categories: 
State departments whose payroll lax liability is met by the relevant State Treasury. The mainland State railways are included in this group. 
State authorities. other than departments included in (a) and other than those classified as semi-government or local authorities under (c) and (d) below. Examples in this category are universities, technical colleges, forestry commissions and pastures protection boards, the New South Wales Departments of Main Roads and Government Transport, and the Country Roads Board in Victoria. 
Semi-government authorities - that is, those authorities with separately analysed accounts which are classified as semi-governmental authorities for national accounts purposes by the Commonwealth Statistician (including Tasmanian railways). See answer to Question No. 2146. 
Local government authorities - bodies set up under Local Government Acts to carry out functions in defined areas. The County Councils in New South Wales are included in this category. 
The Commissioner of Taxation has provided the following estimates of payroll tax paid by these authorities in 1969. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
For the purposes of this answer it has been assumed that the honourable member is seeking information on the percentage of total revenue for all levels of government raised by each of the four levels of government The revenue figures reflected in the percentages in the table below have been prepared on the same basis as those provided in answer to similar questions relating to the revenue of Commonwealth, State, local and semigovernment authorities asked  by  the honourable member on earlier occasions. The details are consistent with current account receipts shown in Tables 5, 10 and 1 1 of the Budget paper 'National Income and Expenditure 1969-70' but exclude revenue on account of Commonwealth Territories. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. However the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations informed my Department on 1 May 1970 that it had made a comprehensive review of the Superannuation Act, that it had adopted new policies as a result of that examination and that it intended to develop its policies in more depth before submitting them for formal consideration. 
The rate of interest earned by the Superannuation Fund in each of the last five financial years was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is set out in the table below for 1968-69. the latest year for which revenue figures are available. For purposes of this reply, semi-government authorities are defined as those with separately analysed accounts which are classified as semigovernment authorities for national accounts purposes by the Commonwealth Statistician. (See answer to Question No. 2146.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The figures for the year 1969-70 are not yet available. Those for the previous 5 years are: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is a specific provision in the income tax legislation which applies to an Australian business controlled by non-residents. Section 136 of the Income Tax Assessment Act provides that, where it appears to the Commissioner of Taxation that the business produces either no taxable income or less than the amount of taxable income which might be expected to arise from that business, the person carrying on the business in Australia shall be liable to pay income tax on a taxable income of such amount of the total receipts of the business as the Commissioner determines. In the case of a business which sells alumina overseas, the export price charged would beone of the factors taken into account in determining whether section 136 is applicable. 
In a section 136 situation, regard would be had to world prices in determining the taxable income that might have been derived by an Australian business if its sales were made on an arm's length basis. The various double taxation agreements entered into by Australia do not operate to inhibit the powers of the Commissioner to apply section 136 in appropriate circumstances. In calculating the taxable income of any taxpayer, deductions are limited to outgoings which are incurred in the derivation of assessable income. Where reductions in rail freight, electricity charges, import duty, harbour dues and land and water rates are provided as incentives for Australian production, only the net payments actually made would be allowed as deductions for income tax purposes. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For purposes of this reply State authorities have been grouped into three categories: 
State authorities other than those classified (under the definitions given below) as semigovernment or local authorities. These include State departments, railways (other than the Tasmanian railways, which is classified as a semi-government authority), universities, technical colleges, forestry commissions, pastures protection boards, etc. In part (1) of the answer to Question No. 1361 the authorities in question are themselves divided into 2 categories. They are not so divided in this answer because, by reason of the secrecy provisions of the payroll tax law, the Commissioner of Taxation is unable to provide certain State-by-State dissections. 
Semi-government authorities - those authorities with separately analysed accounts which are classified as semi-government authorities for national accounts purposes by the Commonwealth Statistician. Includes Tasmanian railways. (See answer to Question No. 2146.) 
Local government authorities - bodies set up under Local Government Acts to carry out functions in defined areas. The County Councils in New South Wales are included in this category. 
The amounts of payroll tax paid in 1969-70 by authorities in each State in each of the above 3 categories and the proportions that these amounts represented in relation to total payroll tax collections, were approximately as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Complete information on State revenues and expenditures for 1969-70 and 1970-71 (estimates) is not available and it has therefore been necessary to use figures restricted to the Consolidated Revenue Funds of each State. These figures are not fully comparable between States or between years, and the honourable member's attention is drawn to the comments accompanying the reply my predecessor gave him to a similar question (Hansard, 27th and 28th November 1968, page 3384). 
The details requested by the honourable member, on the basis explained, are as follows: (l)(a)(i), (l)(b), (2)(a)(i) and (2)(b)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. As is shown, for example, in Table 68 of the Commonwealth Statistician's bulletin 'State, Territory and Local Government Authorities Finance and Government Securities', local government authorities receive significant amounts of revenue from sources other than property rates, including licence fees, fines, charges for services and facilities provided by them, grants from State governments and business undertakings profits. Rates on property are, however, the largest source of revenue of local authorities, representing over one-half of their total revenue. 
and (3) It is not possible to assess the effect on local authority rates and charges of the payment by such authorities of payroll tax. If, for example, local authorities were to be exempted from payroll tax this could lead to: 
a reduction in rates and/or charges; or 
an increase in local authority expenditure; or 
a reduction in financial assistance provided to local authorities by State Governments; or 
some combination of (a), (b) and (c). 
It is not the practice to reply to questions involving policy issues. I point out, however, that the Commonwealth Government has indicated that the payment of financial assistance grants to State governments on the basis proposed at the June 1970 Premiers' Conference is on the understanding that those Governments and their authorities continue to meet payroll tax on wages and salaries of their employees. 
There is no similarity at all between these two things. One was a report which has now been released and although at first it was given only a very restricted circulation, it was a complete document. The alleged Treasury document which did appear illicitly in the financial Press was in fact only an early working paper which was sent by comparatively junior officers to their counterparts in other departments for discussion and subsequent interchange of views. It has no status whatsoever. I certainly will not publish it. 
As the honourable member well knows, there are considerable constitutional limits upon the strictly regulatory powers of the Reserve Bank in the field to which he has referred. Nevertheless, this does not inhibit the Reserve Bank keeping in very close touch both with what is occurring on the inter-company market and with the activities of finance companies, particularly those which are members of the Australian Finance Conference. There is a regular pattern of exchanges between the Reserve Bank and the Australian Finance Conference, and this pattern will continue. Although there is considerable limitation on the strict legal power, there is an opportunity to exert influence by discussion and by exchange of views with both the Reserve Bank and the Government. Therefore these avenues will not be neglected but will be explored to the maximum possible extent. 
Firstly I should point out that the current credit policy is not affecting only small people; it is right across the board. In fact it is tied up with limiting the total money supply and this affects large concerns as well as small concerns. The obvious reason for doing this is to keep inflationary forces in check. The honourable member asked me whether I would consider some special inducement for hire purchase companies . to register and to come under some kind of voluntary control. I have not considered this form of inducement but I certainly will take note of what the honourable member suggested. I certainly do not propose to endeavour to set up controls which would vet every transaction on the inter-company market or on markets generally because this in fact would slow up the whole business world. The result would be that the entire community would suffer. This is not to say that I would not consider like controls of a strategic nature. If the honourable member has any sensible ones to suggest I would be glad if he would convey them to me 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second lime. 
This Bill proposes an amendment of the income tax law to give effect to the Government's decision to suspend the taxation investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment. This decision was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  on 3rd February 1971. The investment allowance provides a special income tax deduction of 20 per cent of capital expenditure on new plant and equipment used in manufacturing. It is supplementary to the normal deductions allowable for depreciation and thus results in total deductions for income tax purposes of 120 per cent of the installed cost of eligible plant and equipment over its scheduled life. The investment allowance was introduced in 1962 at a time of declining employment, slow economic activity and uncertainty as to the outlook for the balance of payments. It was one of a series of measures designed to stimulate demand and restore confidence in the future growth of the economy and was particularly directed to encouraging expenditures on equipment and re-equipment of manufac.turing industries which were then at a low ebb. " 
The economic conditions which led to the introduction of the investment allowance do not exist today and the Government has considered whether, in the current economic climate, this special incentive for investment in manufacturing plant and equipment should continue to be available. We have reached the conclusion that the allowance should be suspended. Private investment in non-farm plant and equipment is rising at an annual rate in excess of 20 per cent and, at a time like this when one of our pressing economic needs is the restraint of inflation, the Government does not feel justified in continuing the investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment. The suspension of this concession is one of the measures we are proposing to deal with the current situation. I emphasise, however, that the suspension does not affect the investment allowance for plant and equipment used in primary production which is allowable under separate provisions of the income tax law that were enacted in 1963. 
The suspension of the manufacturing allowance, as proposed by the Bill, will mean that the special deduction will cease to apply in respect of expenditure incurred after 3rd February 1971 unless it is made under a contract entered into before that date with the supplier of goods or services. Accordingly the suspension will not affect entitlements to deductions for any eligible expenditure that was incurred on or before 3rd February 1971 nor will it apply to disallow deductions for expenditure that is incurred after that date in acquiring or installing plant if the expenditure is made under a contract entered into before that date with the supplier or installer of the plant or equipment. That is the effect of the Bill, but the Government is now receiving submissions from industry that the transitional provisions to continue the allowance for plant acquisitions straddling the suspension date should apply in a wider range of situations than those in which contracts have actually been entered into by 3rd February 1971. These submissions, which naturally cover a complex field, will be carefully considered and to, the extent that the Government wishes to adopt any of them, it will ask the Parliament to implement its decisions by further amending legislation. I have arranged for a memorandum explaining technical aspects of the Bill to be circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: (lj I am aware that there are various important industries, large and small, that collectively could bc regarded as comprising the Australian marine industry. 
I. do not wish to comment on the adequacy of marine facilities provided by the States. The Slates have available substantial funds, including assistance provided by the Commonwealth, which they may use for any purpose, including the provision of marine facilities. 
lt is understood that a rebate of 14.8 cents per gallon is allowed by the New Zealand Government on motor spirit used by marine vessels engaged in other than commercial activities. For commercial vessels the total duly of 1 8.1 cents per gallon is rebated. 
This is a matter of policy. However, as a general rule, the Government does not consider ii appropriate for there to be a link between the proceeds of a tax and expenditure on a particular type of activity or facility. Since 1959 there has been no relationship between petrol tax proceeds and Commonwealth road grams to the States. 
The Australian Industries Development Corporation has not imparted to me what its intentions are in this matter. I have seen a Press reference to it, but beyond that at the moment I can give the honourable member no information. 
In the current year the additions to revenue will be, 1 think, approximately $83m, but, of course, this has a progressive effect. First of all, it is not possible, except for a fairly short period, to estimate precisely the amount of extra revenue because there are a great many repercussions outside the 6 per cent increase in wages. But it will add substantially to Commonwealth revenue and also, almost offsetting that revenue, to the Commonwealth's immediate expenditure. This, of course, provides no extra resources whatsoever, lt is just a monetary phenomenon which, in the present circumstances, is most-, unfortunate.. 
 . FLOOD RELIEF 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No information is available to me from which to estimate what proportion of Australian citizens pay for their access roads by way of rales and charges which are allowable as taxation deduction. 
Consideration has been given from time to time to allowing income tax deductions for capital contributions by private householders towards roadmaking charges. To dale the Government has not seen fit to propose the allowance of such contributions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Subject to the qualifications set out in my answer to part (2) of Question 2'190, yes. 
The matter has been considered many times, the most recent being in the context of preparing (he 1970-71 Budget. It will be kept under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Subject to the qualifications set out in my answer to part (2) of Question No. 2190, yes. 
No. Such students continue to benefit by the considerable financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth and Slate Government to Universities and other comparable institutions and are, presumably, subject to the same incentives as before lo increase their income-earning capacity. 
The question of increasing the present age limit of 21 years has been examined from time to time, without any decision having been taken to amend the law. lt will be kept under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The general provisions of the income tax law authorise deductions for expenditure incurred in producing assessable income, but specifically preclude the allowance of deductions for outgoings which are of a capital, private or domestic nature. Decisions of Taxation Boards of Review have established that expenditure incurred by a taxpayer on a course of study, whether part-time or full-time, for the purpose of acquiring professional or academic qualifications, or lo enable him to enlarge his income capacity by the acquisition of additional qualifications, is of a capital nature and not deductible for income lax purposes. 
However, it has also been established that a taxpayer who incurs expenditure on a course of study undertaken for the purpose of keeping abreast of developments in his existing occupation or employment may be entitled lo a deduction under section 51(1) of the Assessment Act on the ground that it is incurred in the production of his assessable income and is not of a capital or private nature. ' 
Accordingly, as the law now stands, the question whether education expenses incurred by a taxpayer on his own education are allowable tax deductions has to be determined on the particular facts of each case. 
The question of amending the law to allow all taxpayers a deduction for their own education expenses regardless  of  the purpose for which they are incurred will be kept under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware that during the past 4 years increases, varying as between universities and faculties, have occurred in university fees. These -creases, although significant, have not, according to the information at my disposal, been of the order suggested by the honourable member. 
The question of increasing the maximum deduction for education expenses was considered when the 1970-71 Budget was in preparation but in the light of the budgetary position the Government did not feel able to propose the increase. The matter will be kept under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 indicated that, over the years, this has been the position on average. 
, (3) and (4) The contribution which domestic savings have made to Australia's capital resources was estimated by deducting from total private and public investment spending, including the change in the value of stocks, the amount of the current account deficit on the balance of payments. (That deficit provides a measure of the extent to which total capital spending has been financed by an increase in Australia's overseas indebtedness.) The estimated contribution by domestic savings, derived in this way, was expressed as a percentage of total investment. It is not possible to dissect the balance of payments current account deficit amongst different categories of investment spending, and as a consequence it is not possible to provide such a dissection of the derived estimate of the contribution which domestic savings have made to capital resources. The information requested is, therefore, not available. 
I have yet to see a country voluntarily devalue its currency. Nearly every devaluation is unfortunately forced upon the country concerned. At the moment we have hanging over us the very serious threat of inflation. One of the most foolish things we could do at this stage would be to devalue our currency. The other point is that we have strong reserves. In fact, the honourable member might have noticed in a newspaper last night that these reserves have increased quite considerably in the last month and now stand at about $ 1,619m, having in the first 7 months of this financial year risen by $81m compared with a reduction of $196m over the same period last year. Our exchange outlook and our balance of payments are at present extremely healthy and are causing no worry. Therefore it is most unlikely that devaluation would be forced on us. In such circumstances I cannot imagine for one moment a government of this country taking the almost criminal action of voluntarily devaluing the currency. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
I guess that I shall be here long after the honourable member for Sturt as indeed 1 was here long before him. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  did pursue in his speech his normal course of going all round the mulberry bush with bits and pieces from here and there. But what the Leader of the Opposition has never done - I do not say that some of his lieutenants have never done it, but this is a serious omission on the part of a party leader - is to sketch out or to delineate what the total economic policy of the Australian Labor Party under Whitlam would be. 
Why should he? I could think of a good few reasons why he does not do it or does not want to do it. But he has never produced anything which would stand up and which would be a feasible consistent policy. What he has done consistently is to lead this country in the direction of advocating more and more public expenditure. 
If he addresses a meeting of scientists, he says: 'Oh, but you have not enough resources. Labor would see that resources were provided for you'. He goes to a meeting of town planners and states: 'Well, look at what has happened. We need to re-plan our cities and to rebuild the roads'. These things cost millions of dollars. But the Leader of the Opposition says that these would be provided by a Labor Government. Everything that he says in practice as to what the Labor Party would do or would not do does brand him as someone who, in office, would be fiscally flabby. 
He did mention a number of things. One was - this was repeated by one of his echoes, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  - that the Government ignored Treasury advice. Now, this is extraordinary to me. I read this statement in the Press. I do not know where it comes from. In fact, the Treasury has given the Government an extraordinary amount of advice in the last month and it certainly has not been ignored. The honourable member for Cunningham repeated the charge of the Leader of the Opposition that the only information that was obtained had become known because a Treasury document - he said a Treasury report - had been published in the financial Press. Now, I do not need to repeat the fact that this alleged report was a document of low status. At that stage, it was a document compiled by a number of junior officers and. as is the practice in the Public Service, it was sent to their opposite numbers concerned with these matters in other departments. On the basis of this document, these officers discussed this subject with each other and exchanged views. Eventually such a document goes to their seniors and emerges, perhaps some of it still left, in the final document which is placed before the Government. 
It certainly is quite untrue to charge the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  with just brushing off Treasury advice, whether through me or not through me. In fact, the Prime Minister, the Treasury and myself have a very close and continuing relationship. Any suggestion that the advice of our experts is just brushed off or ignored by the Prime Minister or the Cabinet is utterly absurd. 
I noticed one or two things that I thought might have been mentioned perhaps in the first place by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  when speaking on legislation concerning immigration in the last 2 days. I refer to the recent speech that the Leader of the Opposition made at the Labor conference held in Brisbane. Now, for many years, dating back to the start of immigration with Arthur Calwell, the Labor Party al least has had a very consistent, easily understood and quite plain immigration policy. Now we have a new Labor doctrine on immigration. I do not know whether it goes beyond the Leader's sort of private remarks made in the atmosphere of the moment, but the new Whitlam policy in regard to immigration is to bring to Australia the relatives of those who are here, but not to bring new members of the work force. 
Wherever this controversy may settle - and a lot of people have different views - it is quite plain that the advantage that we get immediately out of the immigration programme is the acquisition to the work force of skilled workers who are immediately productive. The disadvantage is their dependants and relatives who come here not contributing anything to the work force or to the immediate income of the country but setting up a great deal of demand. In other words, the present Whitlam policy is to take the worst of both worlds. I do not know whether this new scheme will emerge as the new immigration policy of the Australian Labor Party. It would be interesting to know because the Opposition spokesmen on immigration, as well as other people, over the years have pointed out that the one thing that cannot be done with an immigration policy is to turn it on and off suddenly for temporary reasons. Ti such a policy is switched off, it can be a very difficult thing to revive again. Of course, it always can be cut right down but this is a most novel suggestion on which I think we need to hear the Leader of the Opposition expand in the near future. 
The Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  if I am not doing him an injustice, rather pooh-poohed the cuts that we have made in expenditure as being of relatively little account compared with the huge total expenditure of the Budget. Total Commonwealth expenditure proposed by the Budget was $7,783m. Out of this amount, $2,708m was for the States. This amount has not been cut. We are keeping up our payments to the States which represent over one-third of our total expenditure. This is the amount that we find for the States. Also, $l,473m is provided for welfare payments. Obviously, those payments canot be reduced for the rest of the financial year. The sum of $104m is provided for debt services. Debt services are something which are a fixed commitment; they cannot be reduced. These items total approximately S4,300m or well over half of the total proposed expenditure in the Budget. The area for possible reductions is very much reduced. 
When we consider that, at this time of the financial year, most of the original expenditure appropriated has been committed already, it is very difficult to impose a cut of meaning at this stage. But this cut is part of the general picture of the economy as we see it. A number of people have referred to inflation. It clearly is a very considerable worry. My predecessor, the present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  expressed concern when he was in my chair. I did myself at the time of my last Budget Speech. But we do not want to get this matter out of perspective. 
I thank the honourable member very much for filling in some of it for me, but I am not very grateful. The economy was, until about the end of last year, in a state which caused no grounds for excessive worry. It is true that the consumer price index was high in December, that this caused concern and that some action had to follow, but it was the huge overall increase in the national wages bill as a result of the national wage decision that has- increased these worries. In international terms Australia has done extremely well in controlling its rate of inflation. The Leader of the Opposition referred to the four Liberal crises when we brought in drastic measures, but on an international comparison Australia has been doing extremely well. Our consumer price index in 1970 rose by 4.9 per cent. The rises for the first half of last year in the consumer prices of other countries are as follows: Japan, 7.9 per cent; the United States of America, 6.1 per cent; France, 5.7 per cent; the United Kingdom, 5.4 per cent; Italy, 4.9 per cent; and Belgium, 4.2 per cent. 
The real worry that the Government has and in relation to which it is now taking measures is of course the rapid inflation in wages and salaries. This is not the only element in the economy but it is the one which, over the rest of the Western world, has brought about continual rises in costs and prices. It has in the countries to which I have referred been forcing a rate of inflation- which is positively frightening. We have to avoid allowing the same process to operate in Australia. The rate of increase in salaries and wages in Australia has been accelerating in recent years. In 1965 average weekly earnings rose by 3.5 per cent. Over the years since then they have been increasing. The yearly rates of increase since 1965 have been 5.6 per cent, 6.3 per cent, 7.7 per cent, 8.7 per cent, and last year it was 8.9 per cent. It is quite clear that with productivity rising at the rate of about only 3 per cent per annum there must be a very considerable continuous increase in. costs. This is a progressive movement, and it feeds on itself. This pace of increase is of course the alarming thing we have to deal with at the moment. 
It is true, as the Leader of the Opposition said, that we cannot really distinguish between cost push inflation and demand inflation, but if cost push inflation continues at the rate at which it has been increasing it must spill over to demand. We will have in the next few months increased demand arising from wage increases, and this is our danger. At present we have two major sources of excess demand. One is private investment, including investment in plant and equipment, which in the last quarter of 1970 was about 24 per cent above the figure for the corresponding quarter in the previous year; and the other is investment in non-residential building and construction. These are the two spheres in which we can act and to which we are currently addressing our attention. But we have this continuous cost push factor and, if costs go up, inevitably prices go up. 
Several speakers have stated that we should be pursuing a course of prices control. The honourable member for Cunningham referred to prices control in a general way but did not talk about complete prices control. When prices control was operating successfully in this country, which has been only once - that was during World War II - prices were controlled and costs were controlled also. They were controlled by two main means. Firstly, all wages were controlled, lt has been stated that wages are controlled now, but they are not. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission fixes a floor; it does not fix a ceiling. Secondly, and importantly at the time, manpower was controlled. These two measures are quite unacceptable to most Australians. To advocate a hard and fast price fixing system, which has been done quite extensively, is to propose measures for which we know - this was made manifest in a referendum on the subject in 1948 - that the Australian people will not stand. We would simply be deluding people if we led them to imagine that the Government could introduce prices control and keep all prices fixed and thus avoid the results of inflation. If or when demand begins to get out of hand, we shall take further action; but the action we have taken so far matches the situation which has developed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Payments made under the New South Wales Workers' Compensation (Dust Diseases) Act and the Commonwealth Tuberculosis Act are considered to be dissimilar in character. Allowances under the Tuberculosis Act are paid by the Commonwealth to encourage tuberculosis sufferers to refrain from working in order that they may undergo treatment which will lead to their rehabilitation. Entitlement to the allowance is not governed in any way by the recipient's occupation or employment and, consistently with the treatment accorded other forms of Commonwealth social services benefits, the allowance is exempt from Commonwealth income tax. 
On the other hand, periodical payments under the New South Wales Workers' Compensation (Dust Diseases) Act are designed to compensate employees for the loss of earnings resulting from disease contracted during employment. The payments are consequently comparable with other forms of workers' compensation paid to employees in respect of disablement through injury or other industrial diseases and which fall within the category of income liable to tax. 
The question of exempting periodical payments made under the Dust Diseases Act could not be considered in isolation from other forms of workers' compensation payments. The possibility of excluding all payments of this nature from liability to income tax will be kept under review. 
I have no knowledge of this matter. I point out to the honourable member that the Rural Bank of New South Wales in no way comes under my jurisdiction. It is a State Government instrumentality which operates quite independently of my Department. I think it would be most inappropriate for me to conduct the kind of heresy hunt which the honourable member has in mind. 
I do know something of the second mission that the honourable member mentions. I think that this is the Japanese Government economic survey mission which is coming here under the chairmanship of  Mr Tajitsu  who is the  chairman  of the Mitsubishi Bank. I am making arrangements now to see the members of that mission in March. I have no direct personal information about the first mission mentioned by the honourable member. But this certainly would not be the first step towards the co-existence to which he refers. A series of high power Japanese missions has visited Australia. In fact, I had discussions with one at some length. It was an investment mission which came here under the chairmanship of the  chairman  of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. That mission arrived in Sydney to study investments in the middle of the Minsec crisis. 
There are large numbers of Japanese who, for their own reasons, naturally wish to become better acquainted with Australia to ascertain what can be done here and how our institutions work, in the same way as we on our side have a well justified curiosity about the habits and customs of the Japanese. I did notice some report in the Press speculating upon other aspects of what this mission might have in mind but, in the absence of facts, this source is never lacking in imagination to fill in the gaps. I have no knowledge in this direction but Japanese investment already is welcome here on the same terms as is investment from other people. So, I would not attach to the visit of this mission the kind of significance which the honourable member may, or which he suggests may be read into it. 
Japan and Australia have many common interests in the international sphere. We are interested in limiting the spread of exclusive trading blocs and restrictions on world trade generally in which both countries have a strong interest. Our mutual dependence on each other is growing constantly. These kinds of things seem to me naturally to call for more and more personal contact between the leaders of industry and finance in each country. I feel sure that this will occur, not as the result of some grandiose scheme but just in the course of nature. 
I have noticed statements in the Press by a number of people about the cuts in foreign aid, most of which are characterised by emotion rather than by any checking of the facts. This year after the cuts - which are very minor - have been imposed we expect to spend $187m in foreign aid. This represents approximately a 13 per cent increase over what we actually spent in the 1969-70 financial year when the figure was $165.7ra. Last year's figure was in itself a 10.7 per cent increase on the figure applying the year before. According to the recent figures published by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which is the main authority operating in this field, it appears that Australia was amongst the first 3 countries in terms of the percentage of GNP represented by development aid assistance supplied by governments to developing countries. Although those figures apply to 1969 I feel sure that in 1970-71 this post ion will be at least maintained. This reveals quite conclusively that Australia is amongst the largest givers of foreign aid in the world. 
 The answer to the . honourable member's question is as follows: 
The item referred to was a loan .  to Victoria in exceptional circumstances toassist the State to meet budgetary difficulties. 
30th June 1970. 
See (1) above. 
The conditions ofthe loan are as follows: 
The amount is repayable over 5 years by annual instalments of $2 million on 30th. June each year with the provison that Victoria undertakes to repay more than $2 million in any year if its budgetary position permits. The Commonwealth has. indicated that it would agreeto postpone an annual instalment if it is satisfied that the Victorian budgetary position in the year concerned does not permit repayment to be made without deficit financing. This of course, would not affect the ' requirement that the whole of the loan be repaid by 30th June 1975. 
The loan carries interest at' the short-term Commonwealth bond rate of 6/5 per cent offered in the May 1970 cash loan. 
No interest is payable in the first year. After this, interest is payable semi-annually on 31st December and 30thJune each year on the reducing balance of the loan. 
Since the honourable member for Hawker asked his question it is true that a number of insurance companies have failed, but this is in no way due to action or inaction on the part, of the Commonwealth Government. In fact, if we pursued zestfully every company which was not thought to be very strong. in this field it would push a good many to the wall and policy holders would suffer severely. But what has happened since the honourable member asked his question is that we in the Treasury have had a series of conferences with State officials who have co-operated with us very generously and have given their services in a very co-operative spirit in order to evolve a new: Commonwealth Insurance Act. There - have been several meetings including considerable interchange of views. 
Also we have received' representations from insurance associations. 'brokers and all sides of the business, and I. now have an outline of a scheme which I am placing before the Government. But even after this stage it will be necessary to consult the parties in the insurance field, on all fronts, and this process in itself will take a considerable time. Our aim is to press on with this work as rapidly as possible and keep the momentum going, but it is a complex task and I cannot predict what the timetable will be. We hope at the end of it to be able to present the House with a Bill which will compare favourably with the general insurance legislation of any other country. We cannot act immediately on these other matters because we have not yet entered this field and in the interim we have no power to influence good management in these companies. But if the honourable member asks me a question again in 6 months lime- 
Only people who are dismally ignorant of this field would suggest that one could do it in a shorter time than that. I am sure by that time we shall have got a great deal further. 
1 should like to bring this wideranging discussion back to the true subject of the statement. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  did not stray from the proper purposes of this debate, but he raised a number of points, one of which referred to the Government's recent edict about limiting, for the time being, fresh accretions to the Commonwealth Public Service. It so happens that the Commonwealth Public Service has, for some time, been expanding at a faster percentage rate than the total Australian work force. Its cost has been expanded not only by additional numbers but also by the huge wage increases awarded in the last 12 months, and it has become increasingly costly for the taxpayers of Australia. lt is pertinent that the Public Service should study productivity because productivity is important to the whole economy and it is certainly essential that Commonwealth agencies should, wherever possible and relevant to their functions, take the lead in this matter. This Certainly does not mean that recruitment of most efficient, highly skilled people is being inhibited; it means that Commonwealth departments must examine very carefully whether they have a real requirement for the additional staff. Of course, they will not forget the future, which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports rather hinted might be overlooked in this process. The departments take long term views and know that over a period of years they must have a certain intake of the most important and skilled people. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports referred also to - a question asked of me by the honourable member for Adelaide (Mi Hurford) which was put on the notice paper, lt is true that I did take longer than I anticipated to answer it, but it so happens that in the last couple of months 1 have had one or two other things to do, not that 1 do not regard answering honourable members' questions as highly important and I give them high priority. However. I am afraid this was one unintentionally delayed case - perhaps there are others too that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports could unearth. But in this instance the damage, if any, has been repaired by now. At least I was anxious to answer the question before the House met. The question concerned a $10m loan to Victoria. The honourable member for 
Melbourne Pons suggested that this loan may have been granted for political rather than strictly financial reasons. The honourable member has been in the Parliament long enough to know that these 2 things blend closely together, but, in fact, the following was the position. Though it may be deplorable that we have drifted into a position, as pointed out by him, where a State comes along at the last moment to flush out  $ 10m  because it has acute financial difficulties, the States do have these difficulties from time to time because they have a limited total money supply and therefore they have to ration it and have to look at things in rather a different way from the  Commonwalth.  The arrangement was made, the rate of interest was equivalent to the bond rate then operating and this transaction has now become part of history. At the time it was essential for Victoria, from which State the honourable member comes, and I feel sure that basically he must have welcomed what was done. 
He referred also to the fact that it is too bad that we do not have sufficient social planning in relation to the States but, as he knows, the last financial agreement which was made last June provided a very large increase in funds to the States and also inbuilt a formula which means that the revenue grants to the States will automatically increase considerably faster than the gross national product. Formulae have been established and provision has been made for dealing with wage increases. A pattern has been set out and the States can plan accordingly. 
The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  who is a former officer of the Taxation Office, drew on his previous knowledge to inform the Committee of one or two problems which he saw in the Taxation Office, particularly in regard to the investigators of that Department. These people, of whom he was once one, are a very important pari of the Taxation Office, but there is an arrangement whereby every year when taxation returns are coming in very heavily and the Department has difficulty in issuing the refunds for which taxpayers are clamouring, the Department, if hard-pressed, transfers investigation officers from their normal duties to checking returns. He spoke about productivity and how much money they collected through their investigations, but at that time of the year they can collect more money by attending to returns than by investigating particularly difficult cases. There is something in what he said, lt is- very difficult to get enough skilled people who are qualified, who have the natural intelligence' and aptitude together with the basic qualifications to become good taxation investigation officers. The Commissioner of Taxation would like to have more of those men. It is very easy to say that if we pay people  more money we will get more people. This is a story which has severe limitations. The fact is that taxation laws are becoming more complex, new laws and new practices are being introduced and the Taxation Office has to keep abreast of them. In fact it is doing this and it has done it in the past. Anyone who tries to avoid taxation or tries to cheat the tax gatherer is for the most par? caught up with in the end. 1 agree very much with what the honourable me ber for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  said. Basically he made a plea for members of Parliament I  to take a great deal more interest in the details of public finance. 1 wish this would happen. The only way in which we can ultimately guarantee that democracy will work is to have a sufficient number of people in this House who will give up their time to delve into these things and who will watch carefully what goes on. The Press is the normal mode of control of public funds, government and most other things. This Parliament should indeed be grateful (o those members of the Public Accounts Committee who devote so much time to this work. The honourable member for Cook pointed out that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was a former and very distinguished member of a Public Accounts Committee. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  played a very considerable part over many years. Tonight it has been shown that the members of the Public Accounts Committee can come in and correct the wide-ranging remarks of other honourable members who are clearly in need of tuition. T hope that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  does start to read the reports of the Public Accounts Committee because obviously he has a great distance to go. 
The honourable member for Cook also made a plea for extra experts to be made available to advise members of the  Parlia ment. My reaction to such a request is rather like that to the one that is constantly made for ombudsmen. It is that when this House needs ombudsmen to look after its affairs the private member can pack up. If there is a job to be done the private member is the best man to do it and if he works hard - and I know most do as does any Minister who is on the receiving end of their representations and questions - he will do a thorough job. But if we start appointing ombudsmen private members may as well retire from their appointments. 
 No, you did not. You reminded me of this when you asked for assistance to be given to members of the Parliament. The basic thing about a back bencher member is that he becomes an expert, he does his own work and then plays his part in influencing things. But lo have a committee of members with a number of experts working for them to hold their hands and to write their reports would defeat the purpose of having a committee. I am sure that the honourable member for Cook has every talent aptitude and energy to do this job himself. What he should do is take in hand one or two people like the honourable member for Riverina whose economic theory is almost as colourful as his clothing and is about as relevant too. 
I return to a serious minded honourable member who usually makes a very apt contribution to parliamentary debates and that is the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  He again got right away from what is being discussed. However, he raised one or two questions and since he raised them I will endeavour to answer them. First of all, he made the point that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  had in fact taken some interest in the Minsec affair. He inferred from that that the Prime Minister and this Government are taking responsibility for and have become mixed up in the whole stock exchange activity. The reason why the Prime Minister did take part in this, as he made clear in the House in the last few days, is that this collapse was likely to affect Australia's credit overseas and that is very much the business of the Commonwealth Government. The Prime Minister played a part but not an active part. He informed himself of what was going on. Naturally this matter must worry every Commonwealth member of Parliament because this is something with which we are concerned. 
As to the suggestion of setting up a securities and exchange commission for Australia I point out that we already have a Senate Committee investigating these matters. This is certainly the organ which alone is concerned with them. A great deal of what a securities and exchange commission could do falls within the ambit of State company law. This is clearly a matter for future thought and study. However it should not be assumed that, because something is taking place which we do not think is being particularly well done, automatically it follows that the Commonwealth is equipped with the powers to walk in and that it would be particularly effective if it did. That brings me to some questions specifically asked by the honourable member for Riverina. He asked whether the Treasury staff was well equipped. The Treasury staff and the Government generally is not equipped to run every facet of the economic life of this country, nor would it aim to do so. But I would say that the Treasury staff compares extremely well with the comparable staff of any other advanced country and that within the limits of its functions the Treasury is extremely well equipped. 
That is a wonderful contribution from the honourable member tor Sturt. I forget for the moment the name applied to him but I am sure that the honourable member for Sydney will pass it across to him. The honourable member for Sturt is as much off the beam when he is interrupting as he is when he is normally speaking. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  both asked me specific questions which are well outside the compass of the matter before us. Clearly they were matters about which they wanted to know and I suggest to them that, these matters not being part of this debate, and I do not intend to stray from it, they should put their questions on the notice paper and obtain full answers from the appropriate Ministers. I thank the honourable members who have taken part in this debate particularly those like the honourable member for Melbourne Ports who referred to relevant matters. I move: 
That the Committee agrees with the Statement for the year 1969-70 of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901-1969. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
There is no intention whatever to do other than proceed with the earlier Cabinet decision to carry out a census on 30th June. The fact is that the census arrangements are going ahead and I hope to complete and approve of the final arrangements within the next week or two. After these reports started to circulate in the Press I made some inquiries and found that alterations had been made in the times at which certain advertisements were to appear in the newspapers and newspapers, of course, are very apt to apply their imagination to anything which occurs and they have done so in this case. The fact is that there is no intention to do other than carry out this census. The rumours to the contrary have no basis or substance whatever despite their being picked up so readily by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligation under a guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia, In respect of wheat from the 1969-70 pool. A similar loan, whose repayment will be completed during March 1971, was made last year in respect of wheat from the 1968-69 crop. 
To assist in the marketing of the 1969-70 crop, arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to $398m from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. The date for final repayment is 3 1st March 1971, approximately 12 months after the drawings were made, in order to comply with section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act which requires that loans of the type made to the Board shall not be for more than one year. 
Receipts by the Board from sales of wheat will be insufficient to enable it to repay the borrowings in full by the due date. This will mean that the Commonwealth will be liable under its guarantee for an amount currently expected to be in the vicinity of $190m, recoupment of which is estimated to take approximately 14 months. It is proposed that the Commonwealth lend to the Board sufficient funds to enable it to discharge its debt to the Bank. It is also proposed that the Board be required to use for repayment of the loan all net proceeds from export sales of wheat of the 1969-70 pool- after the date of the loan - as well as the Commonwealth's stabilisation payment. 
The Bill provides that the loan to the Board be at an interest rate of 5+ per cent per annum on the daily balances outstanding, with the actual timing of capital repayments and interest to be determined by the Treasurer. The interest rate is onehalf per cent higher than that charged on last year's loan and reflects, in part, the increased cost of borrowing to the Commonwealth. 
The Commonwealth financed last year's loan to the Board by the issue to the Reserve Bank of treasury notes, on which the average rate of interest at the time was about 5 per cent. The expectation is that the loan to the Board in respect of the 1969- 70 pool will again be financed by the issue of Treasury notes, on which the average rate of interest is currently 5.725 per cent. It should also be noted that, on its export sales on credit terms, the Board quite rightly charges commercial rates of interest. The Government, therefore, proposes to charge the Wheat Board an interest rate higher than the 5 per cent charged last year. Bearing in mind the circumstances of the wheat industry, a rate of 5i per cent is proposed. 
The Bill authorises the Commonwealth to borrow up to $250m to make the loan to the Board. This exceeds the Board's current estimate of the amount required under the guarantee but, as such estimates are subject to substantial variation, the amount specified in the Bill provides a margin in case the estimate proves to be too low. The Australian Loan Council has agreed to a special borrowing programme for this purpose for the Commonwealth in 1970- 71. The terms of the borrowing will be subject to Loan Council approval. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
in reply - 1 found it extremely difficult to reconcile the views just expressed by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  with the very clear and logical case presented by the main spokesman for the Opposition on this matter, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  However, his speech was interesting. The House usually smiles a little when the honourable member for Riverina holds forth. 1 think that most honourable members would have enjoyed his contribution. But the honourable member for Melbourne Ports gave an exposition of his views on this matter which are quite firm and are well known. They are views which are shared, at least, by most members of his Party. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports expressed the doubt that taking this measure now would have very much impact and that its bite would be very deep. I must to a large extent agree with him. But the taking of this measure is not intended to change anything very drastically. What it is designed to do is to remove the previous stimulus given by this measure to investment in manufacturing industry. It does not apply to primary pro duction in the country, as the honourable member for Riverina stated. Consideration was certainly given to differences between the manufacturing industries in the cities and those in the country concerned with processing primary production. 
This is not meant to be a sharp measure. All it is suggested it should do is to have the effect in marginal cases of discouraging investment which might be made now. Before investments of this kind are made careful calculations are done. If it is a profitable operation, the investment is proceeded with. In doubtful cases, at this juncture when the total investment activity in plant and equipment is rising rather too fast, it is hoped that this measure will tend to slow it down. It is not intended to do anything more than that. Such sharp, sudden measures as some people suggest might be taken would not have a very sensible effect. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  who spoke yesterday but who is not in the House at the moment put to me a number of direct questions. One concerned 4ow permanent was this measure which suspends the allowance and when it would be reversed. Of course, the decision made at the moment is that it is no longer necessary to take special measures to stimulate manufacturing industrial investment - because this is what the measure does. In the circumstances, when it is not required for this purpose, there is every reason for eliminating it for the time being. The Government made quite apparent at the beginning that it was suspending the allowance. 
The legislation has to be put in the form of making a change to the Act. There is no easy, tidy way of doing it in a form which merely suspends the allowance for the time being. The honourable member for McMillan also referred to the transitional period. This legislation means that those who have actually concluded contracts before the 3rd February would not suffer any reduction but those who concluded contracts afterwards would have the change applied to them. It was made clear in the first statement that was issued that there would be some very difficult transitional problems. The honourable member suggested that the Treasury did not understand this. He apparently had gathered together the wisdom to think that it was all very simple. In fact, the problems are well known. Companies which already have big expansion programmes under way and which have made contracts for part of their programmes - but not for a great part - to be carried out by other firms or by using their own resources are faced with acute transitional problems. 
When introducing the Bill I said that submissions were being received from industry asking that transitional arrangements be made to continue the investment allowance for some of the expenditures on plant and equipment that had not been incurred or committed by contracts with suppliers by 3rd February 1971: These submissions are still reaching the Government almost daily. Some of them relate to large and complicated projects that have been under construction for some time or for which detailed planning and feasibility studies were completed before 3rd February. An examination is being made of the representations that have been received. The situations they deal with are complex and diverse, and when full consideration has been given to these representations to the Government the Government may introduce further amending legislation to ask Parliament to give effect to the decision the Government may take in response to some of the representations made to it. So to some extent, the position in this respect must still be regarded as open. 
Finally, 1 express my appreciation of the work that the .honourable member for Melbourne Ports and one or two others have put in. on this measure. I am glad to have the honourable members support. Although he thinks that we are now eliminating legislation which should never have been born, nevertheless I thank him for supporting what at the moment is the sensible thing to do. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I regret not being able to accept all of the interpretations placed on the situation by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. The practice of rebate washing arose from the fact that until recently a 10 per cent income tax rebate was available in respect of all interest paid on Commonwealth bonds. My predecessor took the initiative of changing what was a rather archaic system, and the rebate no longer applies. But many bonds still outstanding in the market are subject to the 10 per cent rebate. No doubt the honourable member's question has been prompted by an article in this morning's Financial Review', the contents of which scarcely justify the headlines on the article. 
The main organisations concerned in this activity at the moment are finance companies, which normally operate in the unofficial money market and purchase bonds, particularly from those who can gain no advantage through holding rebatable bonds. Insurance companies, superannuation funds and other organisations hold a large volume of bonds and they can gain no advantage from the interest concession on those bonds because they are taxed on a different basis. There is little evidence to suggest that dealers in the official money market indulge in this practice, but it pays finance companies to do so. They have a margin which enables them to purchase a bond before the last payment of dividend and gain a small profit. We estimate that the profit so gained is about SO per cent of the $5,000 per $lm worth of bonds referred to in the article. As I have said, provision was made for the 10 per cent rebate and subsequently that concession was withdrawn. That some profit may still be made in this way on bonds outstanding is a fact of life of which any citizen may take advantage. 
A series of investigations has been made into the gold mining industry, particularly in relation lo Kalgoorlie. There have been a number of representations and I am nol sure to which one the honourable member is referring. 1 recall that' early in January further representations were received. These have been examined by the Treasury and other departmental experts and a decision was made which confirmed an earlier decision that the Government would continue the subsidy at the present level and there was no justification for a further increase in it. Most of the recent representations have been very largely a repetition of the previous ones. A very thorough job has been done by those concerned who provided a great deal of detail. This has been gone into and the decision after several examinations has remained the same. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Meetings were held in Canberra on 9th October, 3rd and 18tb December 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank has provided the following information: 
41h March 1970. 6th October 1970. 18th February 1971. 
A useful exchange of information and views on economic and financial conditions and prospects. 
The answer to the honour* able member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government aims at a number of economic objectives, including full employment and price stability. ('Wage fixation' is not an economic objective in itself, though an excessive rate of increase in wage rates is a major factor currently jeopardising price stability.) It is not a mat- ter of achieving some of these objectives at the I expense of others but, rather, of so balancing eco- Inomic policies that all are achieved to the greatest extent possible. In general, the Government's economic policies have been successful over the years in achieving full employment and strong growth combined with a reasonable degree of price stability. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, but arrangements are being made for the Technical Publications Unit of the PostmasterGeneral's Department in Melbourne to be transferred to the control of the Commonwealth Government Printer, whose organisation now forms part of the Australian Government Publishing Service. It is expected that the Unit will be able to accept a limited amount of printing work from departments other than the Postmaster-General's Department in Melbourne. As the lease of the premises now occupied by the Unit expires this year alternative accommodation had to be found. 
A Branch of the Government Printing Office has operated in Darwin since 1965. Commonwealth printing requirements are reviewed from time to time but no decision has been taken that the Government Printer should operate a printing unit in any State other than Victoria. 
See (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimates of Wages, Salaries and Supplements are published by the Statistician regularly in Quarterly estimates of National Income and Expenditure. Excluding the supplements component the last published estimates are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As pointed out in the same letter of 11th September 1970, these are matters for State governments to determine. It would therefore be inappropriate for me to comment on specific revenue sharing arrangements entered into by the States with their own local and semi-government authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The basic purpose of the age allowance provisions is to ensure that no tax is payable by persons otherwise qualified by age for age pension who are in receipt of relatively modest incomes. The Government has, in fact, examined on several occasions the introduction of the kind of concession proposed by the honourable member but has not so far seen its way clear to propose amendment of the law along such lines. 
No statistics are available of persons in receipt of widow and invalid pensions who are subject to income tax. It is not possible therefore to provide precise estimates of the costs to income tax revenue of applying to widow and invalid pensioners concessions similar to those that apply to aged persons under the age allowance provisions of the Income Tax Act. 
However, on the basis of estimated numbers of widow and invalid pensioners with means as  assessed  in excess of the' ' minimum taxable income, it is considered that the cost to revenue of applying concessions similar to the age provisions to persons in receipt of widow and invalid pensions would not be likely to exceed $lm. 
I should add that if such a concession were to be granted on the same basis as the age allowance, it would apply not only to persons in receipt of pensions but also to persons qualified by widowhood or invalidity but not in receipt of social welfare pensions on this account. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth is a substantial owner of buildings of historic and aesthetic interest for which there is still a functional requirement. It is not practicable to separate from the total expenditure on such buildings the cost of their preservation per se. As well, the Commonwealth has also spent some $108,000 up to 30th June 1970 for the restoration of buildings for historical purposes and for tourism at Norfolk Island, and in the past 5 financial years, about $69,000 for the preservation of historic buildings in the Northern Territory. 
While recognising its responsibility for the preservation of Commonwealth-owned buildings of historic interest, the Commonwealth Government, as a matter of policy, has not provided financial assistance towards the preservation of other buildings of historic or aesthetic importance. The Commonwealth, however, makes a general grant of $5,000 per year towards, the administrative costs of the Australian Council of National Trusts which is the central body in this field. In addition, the Commonwealth has recognised the value of the work being done by the National Trusts in each State in this direction, by granting them the benefit of concessions under the income tax and estate duty laws. 
 It occurs to me that Henty is a somewhat rough place. I have no direct knowledge of this matter - that is the closing of the branch - because it is a matter for ordinary Commonwealth Banking Corporation administration. I would not expect to be informed about the open ing and closing of branches. This is a serious matter for the administration of the Bank as branches are not opened or closed without very careful consideration I am not aware of the reason for closing the branch, but I would imagine it is not exactly popular amongst the officers of the Commonwealth Bank as one in which to seek service. I feel sure that the convenience of customers was considered,' because this is a prime consideration of the administration not only of the Commonwealth Bank but also of other banks. 1 will endeavour to obtain information for the honourable member, but I do not regard it as a matter in which I should intervene. 
The control over money does not apply to specified advances. 
1 know that any Socialist would like to arrange the whole thing, to arrange all bank loans in the country; but that is not our policy nor will it be. Our control is general, and within those general lines the banks select their own customers, judge their credit position and solvency and make all the other judgments applying to banking. 
in reply - At the opening of this debate the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  as one would expect, made a number of pertinent points, the first of which was related to the accounts of the Australian Wheat Board. Of course, the Wheat Board's accounts are operated on a pool basis and not on an annual basis. The honourable member quoted from the Board's report of 1968- 69. In that year the pool was finalised and there were no financial statements in the annual report for that year. However, there were 3 pools in 1965-66, 1966-67 and 1967-68 which were finalised in September 1970. The accounts for these pools were published in the Board's 1969 annual report. This will be in the bands of the printer very shortly and should be published for ail to read in May. These accounts were somewhat delayed because the finances of these pools were not finalised due to a difficulty arising out of the determination of the average price for export and thus the amount which the Wheat Board was entitled to draw from the Wheat Prices Stabilisation Fund. Until these matters were finalised it was not possible to publish the accounts. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports raised the question of the Wheat Board's accountability, particularly to Parliament. It is necessary to point out that the Commonwealth does not meet the Board's expenses nor provide its capital. It facilitates the orderly marketing of the crop through the Board under the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act and it also guarantees advances for marketing of the crop. This guarantee was not in fact called upon until last year. There is no statutory requirement on the Board to table its report but its accounts are audited by the Auditor-General. The honourable member also referred, very aptly I suppose, to the rather large provision in this Bill which enables the Government to borrow up to $250m when the best estimate we can make at the moment is that $1 90m will be required. This has to be a normal procedure because there are too many unknowns in this exercise; a lot of unknown factors could crop up. But we do not expect to be called on to advance more than $190m. The honourable member also mentioned the effect on the national accounts. He obviously implied that there could be inflationary implications. This point is well taken, but what this Bill seeks to do is replace advances which have already been made. If we were talking about an initial advance the honourable member's point would be different but what this Bill does ' is turn the advances which have been made by the Reserve Bank into a Commonwealth debt. 
A number of suggestions were made during the debate, particularly by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  who also dealt with some of the points made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  applied a very salutory corrective to some of the suggestions of both the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  who also spoke about these matters. I assure the honourable members thatI will pass on to my colleagues, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  the substance of what they said. The honourable member for Wilmot referred to a number of matters and, of course, particularly to the fact that some wickedness or satanic process was involved in the charging of an interest rate of5 per cent which he said would amount to $13,750,000. The fact is that the interest payable is calculated on a moving balance. As the loan is repaid the balance is reduced and less interest is payable. The best estimate we can make at present is that the Australian Wheat Board will pay between $5m and $5m interest over the estimated period of the loan. That is only an estimate. One cannot be sure of what will happen in the process. During this period the Commonwealth will have to pay the Reserve Bank of Australia an average of 5.725 per cent or something like $5.5m. 
The interest rate on the original advance was, as has been pointed out, 5 per cent. I am talking about the one last year.It is no use talking about 20 years ago. That was another world entirely. I will not resuscitate this point or argue on it because these conditions do not apply any longer. The reason is that the Commonwealth has to pay the increased cost of its borrowings. The original rate of 5 per cent was based on the fact that this was the rate that the Commonwealth had to pay at the time for relatively short term Treasury notes. The increased cost of Commonwealth borrowings now on Treasury notes is an average yield of something like 5.75 per cent. 1 should also point out that, as I mentioned in my second reading speech, the Australian Wheat Board - very rightly and properly - charges commercial rates on ils credit sales of wheat. The proposed rate of 5.5 per cent represents a considerable concession on the current overdraft rate. This is what we have to pay for money. Therefore the 5 per cent rate is in fact a concessional rate. This is not creation of credit, as the honourable member for Wilmot suggested. This is something which is in the system already and the Commonwealth, in taking it over, will have to pay the Commonwealth Bank of Australia the going rate of interest, so that it is in fact a concession. 
The honourable member for Riverina referred to the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia. The legislation establishing the Rural Credits Department was debated at length by this House before being passed. The function of the Rural Credits Department is to provide short term finance for the marketing, processing or manufacture of primary products on a seasonal basis, it is not and never has been the intention of the legislation that the Rural Credits Department should prove funds for the carryover of large stocks from one year to another. This matter has been examined a number of times over the years but it has been felt for very good reasons that such a course was not warranted. I am glad that the honourable member for Wilmot, who made a number of suggestions, and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports are present in the chamber. 
 The honourable member is a very polite fellow. He is only here half the time anyway. He enjoyed a very apt absence at the hands of the electors some time ago. Who knows what next may recur? The honourable member for Wilmot made a number of suggestions, particularly in regard to where the Wheat Board should look for further sales. I should point out first of all that the Wheat Board has made sales of1 million tons or 46 million bushels to the United Arab Republic. The Board also has a 3-year agreement to supply it with 1 milliontons a year so. whatever other factors may have arisen since, the basic contracts are there. He suggested that the Wheat Board, which is the marketing authority, should explore the possibilities of sales of wheat to Nigeria and Israel. Nigeria principally consumes a hard wheat which has. for some time, been supplied by the United States of America on extended terms at concessional rates. The Wheat Board, of course, has been alert to every market. In fact, as has been pointed out, in the last year it has done a remarkable job in finding markets for Australian wheat. The Israel market is not a good prospect because of the adverse factor of very high freight rates now prevailing to Mediterranean ports. The Israel port of Eilat lacks bulk handling facilities for wheat and the cost of inland transport to the main centres of population increases its price to a prohibitive figure. The situation has been investigated, and the honourable member for Wilmot should not imagine that the Wheat Board has not been active in this field. If the honourable member has any other suggestions I shall be glad to pass them on to my colleagues for investigation. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  and honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  also contributed to the debate. I am glad that the honourable member for Mallee supports the Bill. He has a vast rural experience in these matters and I thank him for his support. I shall pass on to the Ministers concerned the Other suggestions that were made and I thank the honourable members who made constructive contributions to the debate. Not all of the debate was of a constructive character but this is perhaps not unusual in matters of this matter. I should like particularly to thank the honourable member for Melbourne Ports for raising the points which he has raised. If he has any further points or wants any further information on this subject I shall certainly endeavour to supply it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
This Bill provides for the repayment of an advance which the Reserve Bank has already made and upon which the Commonwealth was called upon to pay the prevailing rate of interest. This would be currently  - I  did not put it exactly because it could change - of the order of 5.725 per cent. The Commonwealth is called upon to pay that rate of interest to the Reserve Bank. This Bill enables the Commonwealth to borrow the money to repay the Reserve Bank. For this transaction we have to pay this rate of interest. The Government has in fact provided a concession as it probably will be called upon to pay rather more than the amount which will be charged to the Australian Wheat Board. 
What the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  says about the part the Commonwealth Government is playing is true. Without this action there would be a serious collapse and the whole object is to prevent that happening. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
My experience suggests that State governments take the same view as the Commonwealth Government of the relationship of local government finance to the Commonwealth, namely that it is a State matter and a State responsibility. If local authorities wish to seek direct access to the Commonwealth for funds - as sometimes they do - representations should be made through the State Government concerned. It is not within my memory that a State Government has invited the Commonwealth in to discuss any council's financial position. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out below. The information has been compiled in consultation with the Departments concerned: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Chapter III of the White Paper, Commonwealth Payments to or for the States 1970-71, presented by the Treasurer on the occasion of the last Budget, sets out details of specific purpose payments to the States related to development projects. Details of those payments relating specifically to mining projects are given in answer to question (a). 
Other Commonwealth assistance to industry is set out in Statement No. 9 attached to the Budget Speech delivered by the Treasurer on 18 August 1970. The amounts of grants paid to gold mining and petroleum exploration companies are given in answer to questions (b) and (c). 
Loans provided by the Commonwealth related to mining projects and their infrastructure in the five years ended 30th June 1970 are shown below; grants towards these projects are set out in footnotes. In addition to the projects referred to in the table, the Commonwealth has financed the construction of a sealed road between the Mount Bundey iron ore project and the railhead at Humpty Doo in the Northern Territory. Commonwealth expenditure amounted to $387,098 in 1966-67, $1,232,895 in 1967-68,$110,676 in 1968-69 and $130,557 in 1969-70. The main beneficiary, Morgan Mining and Industrial Company Pty Ltd (a wholly owned sub sidiary of Peko-Wallsend Ltd, an Australian company) is required to meet 50 per cent of the amount expended by the Commonwealth plus 5 per cent interest by way of a charge on ore transported. Also the Commonwealth has agreed to lend the Papua and New Guinea Administration $20m towards the cost of construction of Arawa town, to assist development associated with the Bougainville copper project, which is mainly overseas-owned. Drawings of $2m were made against this loan in 1969-70. Early in 1970-71 the Commonwealth subscribed $3. 6m to make up the shortfall in a recent borrowing in Australia by the Administration to finance the first instalment of its 20 per cent interest in the Bougainville project. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the only information available that is relevant to the question asked is the total of premiums reported for 'Public risk third party' insurance by insurance offices transacting business in Australia. In 1968-69 the total was $18,222,025. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided  the  following information; 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following details of life insurance premiums paid to. insurance companies in Australia: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no doubt that, especially in recent years, wage increases have played a major part in raising the general price level. On the other hand it is improbable, given the strong growth in output of the Australian economy over most of the period in question, that output reductions have been a significant factor influencing the price level. It is not possible, however, to separate in a quantitative way the various factors which have influenced price rises from year to year over the past 30 years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank has  provided  the  following information: 
Governor, Reserve Bank of Australia (J. G. Phillips)- Chai rman. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following information: 
The answer to (he honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following table in answer to the honourable member's question: 
Like the honourable member for Curtin and probably other honourable members. I heard the report on the Australian Broadcasting Commission this morning that there had been a fresh and further incursion by the South Vietnamese into Laos. I have not yet been able to check this report and I have not got detailed information at this stage. But I can refer to the former operation in Laos which has been the subject of a good deal of controversy and conflicting reporting. That was the previous raid. It was a raid designed to disrupt and destroy part of the North Vietnamese and Vietcong supply lines to the south. From our own information we are aware that this operation did result in the destruction of a good many supplies belonging to the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese. For instance, we know that there were destroyed over 100 tanks, nearly 300 trucks, about 17,000 tons of miscellaneous munitions, machinery and supplies. 1.3 million litres of fuel, 7 kilometres of fuel pipe and 1,800 tons of food, and there may have been more. In this operation the South Vietnamese forces unfortunately suffered considerable casualties but there is every indication - and this has been cross-checked - that they did inflict much greater losses on the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. There have been adverse reports about the last stages of that operation - the withdrawal phase. It was unfortunate that weather conditions were bad and air cover could not be fully provided. The withdrawal has been reported, particularly in the United States, as something of a setback. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attached tables set out in the latest available figures on aid flows. The categories are nol always the same as those in the tables provided in 1968 because of changes in the recording procedures of aid donors. 
The first two tables show actual disbursement of aid from countries which are members of the Development Assistance Committee (D.A.C.) of the O.E.C.D. (i.e. Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy. Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, U.K., U.S.A.). Table HI dealing with aid from Communist countries, relates to commitments, because disbursement figures are not available. Disbursements from Communist countries run at a level well below that of commitments and as  a  result Table 111 greatly over-estimates the real flow of aid to developing countries from this source. 
On 2nd April about 18 dependants of Australian personnel in East Pakistan were flown out either to Bangkok or to Singapore. There are remaining about 42 Australians including essential embassy staff and people working under the Colombo Plan, many of whom are up country either where they are considered safe or from where it would be hazardous to undertake the journey to Dacca at the present moment. The Australian Government does deplore the violence and bloodshed which appear to have taken place in this unfortunate territory, particularly coming so soon after the disastrous floods and other catastrophes of only a few months ago. The Government of Pakistan which has sole responsibility for this area, is in fact taking steps to restore martial law as it recently existed over a wide area. On 26th March the  President  made the statement that his aim was to restore parliamentary and democratic government to the elected representatives of East Pakistan and West Pakistan as soon as this proved practicable. We rest on this statement, but we deplore what is alleged to have taken place - certainly the disorder and bloodshed - in a country which for many years has been a very good friend of Australia. It is a matter for the concern of the Pakistan Government itself. I hope to expand on this answer tonight. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  it has been the practice, and I think a good practice, for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make from time to time in addition to statements on particular overseas events and developments a statement on the international situation as a whole. I propose to continue that practice, so that the House may have a comprehensive account of Australia s foreign relations. Such a review was in course of preparation by my predecessor and I feel that it would be of interest to honourable members. In order to save the time of the House, however, I shall at the end of my speech table a document incorporating information of a detailed character on the global situation. I shall then move that the document be printed. I shall therefore confine my statement to four questions of particular current interest and importance to Australia - Indo-China, China, the Middle East and Pakistan. 
All goods shipped under Australian overseas aid programmes are contained in packages which are labelled only in English. In accordance with normal shipping practice, this label usually shows the initials of the government department concerned and the port of destination. So far no evidence is available to me that this has led to any delays or confusion in delivery. However, as the honourable member has raised this point, I will make inquiries to ensure that this is in fact the case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amounts received by the United Nations from Australia in the financial year 1969- 70  -rr set  om in the Appropriation Bill (No. I) for 1970-71, as expenditure under Division 250, Sub-divisions 4 and 5. 
The amounts spent by the United Nations in Australia and her territories have nowhere been calculated precisely - this calculation would of course have to be done by the United Nations - and therefore I am not able to give the honourable member an exact figure. However, the amounts spent are considerable and have shown a marked tendency lo increase in recent years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The two Governments have not as yet had occasion to exchange views on this subject. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) A nev. draft treaty has been negotiated with Italy. 
Negotiations are proceeding with the United States of America. 
Draft treaties  howe  been negotiated with Israel, Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany. 
Negotiations between officials are expected to take place shortly with Ireland, Sweden and Turkey. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are approximately 226,000 war orphans in Vietnam. Included in this figure are 153,000 wards of the nation for whom basic responsibility lies with the Ministry of Social Welfare. There are 116 orphanages registered by the Ministry of Social Services caring for 20,000 children of whom 40 per cent have lost both parents. There are also approximately 104 day centres registered with the Vietnamese authorities, which look after approximately 11,000 children. The Ministry of Social Welfare in Vietnam has indicated that it is not completely correct to speak of 'destitute orphans': those not being cared for by the Government are, for the most part, cared for in family groups. 
Miss Rosemary Taylor is known to be associated with an organisation known as Terres des Hommes. Vietnam, which has facilitated adoptions in European countries and the United States of America. 
On 6th May 1970, Miss Taylor indicated in a letter to an Australian desiring to adopt a Vietnamese child that she had more than enough prospective parents in Europe, England, America and Canada and did not have enough time to become involved in a whole new set of procedures. 
My Department has not received any increase in the number of inquiries since the adoption referred to. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs and the Australian Embassy in Saigon are already advising Australians who enquire about adopting Vietnamese children on the needs for documentation and other requirements. The Department advises prospective adoptive parents to make inquiries in the first instance from the Embassy of the Republic of Vietnam in Canberra. 
The matter of adoption of foreign children in Australia is one which chiefly concerns Child Welfare Authorities in each of the Australian Slates. The Vietnamese Ministry of Social Welfare and Refugees and the Ministry of Health have advised that, generally speaking, the Government of Vietnam does not favour the adoption of Vietnamese children in foreign countries. They prefer Vietnamese orphans to be assisted within their own country. Nevertheless permission has been given in some cases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Association of Australian Slovaks celebrates 14lh March 1939 as the date of the Slovak independence. On 14th March 1939, the Slovak Diet unanimously adopted a declaration of independence by which Slovakia denied its allegiance to the Central Government of the Czechoslovak Republic in Prague and declared itself a sovereign state. On 15th March 1939, German troops occupied Bohemia and Moravia and German spokesmen declared that Czechoslovakia had ceased to exist. On 15th March 1939,  Dr Tiso,  the Slovak Premier, placed Slovakia under the protection of Hitler. On 16th March 1939, Hitler took over the protection of Slovakia. On 23 rd March 1939, a Treaty was signed between Germany and Slovakia which placed Slovakia under direct German military protection. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Even if the propositions formulated by the honourable member were factually correct, which for the most part I strongly contest, they are all irrelevant to the legality of carrying out military obligations overseas under the National Service Act. 
The  answers  to the honourable member's  questions  are as follows: 
197 applications were received from persons seeking entry into the Foreign Affairs diplomatic staff in 1971. 
Applicants educated at state schools totalled 101 and those educated at private schools totalled 96 including 6 who attended Evening Colleges or Coaching Colleges during final Secondary education. 
It is a fact that eighteen out of the forty-two successful applicants came from private schools. 
I do not concede that this indicates a bias on the part of either the selection criteria or selecting officers. Selection of the successful applicants is made after extensive written and oral tests and interviews involving other Departments as well as the Department of Foreign Affairs. These are carefully designed to determine the applicant's overall suitability for foreign service and the aim of the process is to select the best candidates irrespective of the school or university attended. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not yet made a decision on either of these matters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1st January 1967 - Bombing of Consu late-General in Sydney. 
29th November 1967- Pen bomb exploded at Yugoslav New Settlers League Party in Richmond Town Hall, Melbourne. 
30th November 1968- Bombing of Consulate-General in Sydney. 
9th June 1969 - Explosion smashed front of Consulate-General in Sydney. 
29th November 1969- Attack on the Chancery of the Embassy in Canberra. 
21st October 1970- Bombing of ConsulateGeneral in Melbourne. 
Records prior to 1966 do not reveal evidence of incidents, but further detailed research will be necessary to confirm this. 
Austria - 23.11.66-22.5.70. Coat of Arms removed twice from Consulate-General in Melbourne. Apology made. Brazil- 10.2.70: Coat of Arms stolen from Embassy. 
Apology made.  11.2.70: Property valued at $364 stolen from 
Embassy but later recovered. Apology made. 12.2.70 and 15.2.70: Breaking and entering at Embassy. Nothing stolen. Apology made. Canada - 19.8.67: Breaking and entering at High wmmission. Apology made. 
Chile-  15.2.70:  Flag stolen and rope cut. Apology made.  9.4.70:  Damage to Embassy from attempt to enter premises. Apology made. 
China - 
Broken windows at Embassy, Apology made. Germany -  10.4.70:  Threat to kidnap German Ambassador. Personal guard provided for . Ambassador. Guard withdrawn  20.4.70. 
Indonesia -  14.2.70:  Property valued at  $220  stolen from Embassy, but later recovered. Apology made. 
Italy-  26.7.68:  Broken windows at Embassy. Apology made.  17.10.69:  Safe containing passports, seals and other documents stolen from Consulate in Brisbane. Apology made.  7.4.70:  Breaking and entering at Consulate in Brisbane. Apology made. 
Ja pun -  8.2.70:  Imperial- crest and name plate stolen from Embassy. Apology made. 
Mexico-  15.2.70:  Flag stolen and rope cut at Embassy. Apology made. Peru -  6.1.67:  Peruvian Legation building defaced. Apology made. 
Poland-  2I.S.68:  Demonstrations at Consulate-General, Sydney. Ten people arrested and charged wilh trespassing. Apology made. 
Singapore - 
S.2.70:  Flag stolen from High Commission. Apology made. South Africa -  12.3.70.  Flag stolen from Embassy. Apology made. 
Spain-  15.2.69:  Demonstration outside Consulate in Sydney. Flag burnt. Apology made.  8.2.70:  Flay stolen at Embassy. Apology made. Thailand-  8.2.70:  Flag halyard was cut. Apology made. United States  of  America -  18.8.68:  Attempted arson at ConsulateGeneral in Melbourne. Apology made.  4.7.68  and  5.7.69:  Broken glass panels at Consulate-General in Melbourne. Apology made.  2.3.70:  Petrol bombs thrown at ConsulateGeneral in Melbourne. Apology made. Union of Soviet Socialist Republics -  3.3.69:  Hedge burnt at Embassy. Restoration of hedge by Government, and apology made.  17.4.69:  Attempt to burn hedge: Apology made.  6.10.69:  Damage done to driveway, lawns and shrubs. Restoration of damage made by Government and apology made.  16.10.69:  Bomb exploded at Embassy. Restoration of damage made by Government and apology made.  17.1.71:  Bomb exploded at Embassy. Apology made. Compensation will be considered should the Soviet Government ask for it. The Soviet Government has announced that it intends to do so. Vietnam -  4.7.69:  A number of students found without lawful excuse in the Embassy building. Apology made. September  1970:  Incident at Queensland University involving First Secretary (Information). Apology made.  (3)  (i) Over the last  10  years there have been burglaries or attempted burglaries of staff residences or chancery premises in many overseas missions and assaults or attempted assaults on some officers. 
There have also been some threats against Australian offices abroad but no threat has been carried out. 
Australian diplomatic property has also been damaged during military operations and demonstrations in the Saigon area. 
In march  1970,  in Karachi,  2  molotov cocktails were thrown into the driveway of the residence of the Australian Attache. In June  1968.  the official vehicle of the Australian High Commissioner in Wellington was damaged by demonstrators. 
With the exception of (ii), (iii) and (iv), there was no conclusive evidence that the attacks were politically motivated and in (i) they were not directed exclusively against Australian property. 
 The  answer to the  honourable  member's  question  is as  follows: 
Two indigenous officers of the Papua and New Guinea Administration attended the  1970  Foreign Service Training Course in Canberra. One of these officers went on to spend  3  months in New York as a member of the Australian Delegation to the United Nations General Assembly. The question of further training is being examined. 
International Labour Organisation Non-metropolitan Territories (Question No. 2352) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information sought by the honourable member is set out in Report No. Ill (part 1) of the fifty-fourth Session of the International Labour Conference held at Geneva in 1970. This report is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following tables set out aid flows (or in the case of Britain, all official flows) to the following states and territories of the region: 
Papua - New Guinea 
Fiji - independent (formerly a British Colony) 
Tonga - Independent (formerly a' British Protected State) 
British Solomon Islands and Gilbert and Ellice Islands - British Territories 
New Hebrides - A condominium administered by France and Britain 
Niue and Tokelaus - New Zealand Territories 
Cook Island - Self governing (New Zealand continues to be responsible for external affairs and defence) 
Western Samoa - Independent (formerly a New Zealand Trust Territory) 
American Samoa and Guam - American Territories 
Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands - administered by the United States of America under a Trusteeship agreement with the United Nations. 
-I address to the Minister for Labour and National Service a question concerning the employment of married women at Broken Hill. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
I do not think any Australian or any honourable member in this House could be otherwise than horrified at what has happened in India. This matter has been raised by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  who has a long and very deep knowledge of India and a personal interest in the country. Of course, he would be more affected by recent events than most people because he knows more about them. But the matter as it has been raised in this House really divides itself into 2 questions. First of all, there is the question of what support and help we can give and, secondly, what can we do in the political sphere. This situation is compounded from 2 things. The first is that a number equal to half the population of Australia is living in the open, in tents or whatever can be provided for them. There is very little hope of employment or in many cases, of even having a satisfactory meal for a very long time. It has also produced a source of most dangerous political infection. Out of this, as the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  has just pointed out, come all kinds of horrible political developments of a nefarious kind, always disrupting, trying to pull down the established authority, and spreading doctrines of desperation which will be or potentially could be exploited by other powers outside. 
What the Government has done with regard to aid has been to get close advice from our officers on the spot, as the honourable member for Brisbane has said, and above all to act in close conjunction in West Bengal with the Indian authorities. All kinds of people all over the country give advice on what is wanted, where it is wanted, how to do it and so forth, but the only proper way to do it is to keep in close touch with the authorities there, work with them and supply what we can, as we can, to the right spot when it is wanted. So far $lm - now another donation of money has been provided - has gone to pay for those things which could be sent quickly and efficiently. That is not the limit of Australia's donations. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  should check the sums which he says have been provided by other countries to find out what has been pledged, what has appeared in public headlines and what, in the end, is actually supplied and finds its way there. I feel certain that, proportionately, Australia will stand up very well. 
The future course for aid - it is encouraging to know that it will be supported by all sectors of this House - is to meet requirements as they emerge. So far the requests have been for medicines. They have not been for food but it is likely that in the near future they will be for food. When they follow that form Australia will be in a flexible position and will follow it up and supply the necessary medicines, food or whatever is wanted. A number of things have been suggested to the Indians and we have been told, in many cases, that they were not wanted and that something else was wanted. The main thing is not to supply what someone in Australia thinks would do them good but to meet their own particular requirements and wishes. 
On the broad political question reference has been made to the fact that India has a pact with Soviet Russia and that the 
People's Republic of China is interested in Pakistan. These things illustrate the difficulties of Australian political initiatives. Australians have to realise that we are not a great power. We cannot go to India and order the affairs of the world. We are not in a position to take any very spectacular initiative in the United Nations. What we can do is support other people who are bigger than we are and who have more influence, and support the courses which we applaud. The fundamental fact to realise is that we have done what it is possible to do in the way of political initiative. The way the motion is worded creates a very strong implication that not enough political initiative has been taken. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  pointed out, we have made our views very plain throughout to the rulers of both India and Pakistan. Messages have been sent from Prime Minister to  President  and from Prime Minister to Prime Minister. 
We have done what we can. What we have not done, and what I thought the honourable -member for Fremantle did, is to start taking sides in the quarrel which, after all, is between 2 countries with both of which we are friends and with which we have had very friendly relations. Some very brutal, horrible things have been done on both sides. There has been a mutiny in the East Pakistan army with a lot of troops being very brutally killed. Some of the West Pakistani troops have undoubtedly perpetrated a good many horrors and the whole situation is interlaced with legacies from the past, handed down from generation to generation. Such people are worse than the Irish, and on a tremendous scale. I am sure that whatever is done there is no prospect of wiping out the hideous hates which infect the whole population and the rules of the country. As to the action which can be taken, I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs fairly made the point as to the practical political initiative to be taken. We could certainly take sides, but that would help nobody. Following his precepts, it would almost certainly win us the lasting hostility of Pakistan. Our part is really to concentrate on relieving, as far as we can, the human suffering in the situation which has evolved. Later, when areas generally, and particularly East Pakistan, pick up, within the limits of our resources we will assist them to recover and to resume their economic life. At present the economic life of East Pakistan has largely broken down. 
In discussing political initiatives we have to measure Australia's size and strength in the field in which we are operating, in a matter which includes India, Pakistan, Soviet Russia, the People's Republic of China and so on. We are only a small fish. We cannot have a great influence. The influence and power we have are very properly and wisely concentrated where we do have a place and where we are considered very carefully by all the people in our area; that is our neighbours in South East Asia. If we start spreading our political concentration right over the world wherever there is trouble, we may have ideological feelings as individuals or as a nation, or feel strongly about a situation, but we could finish by dissipating our influence over the whole of the world and by doing nothing very effective. 
If this motion has done nothing else, it at least has established that measures taken by the Government - nobody has spoken out against them so far - to pledge assistance and carry out assistance in these areas will have support. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  made a point about our friend, the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid).  The honourable member for Holt has informed me that he will refer to this subject again during the debate tomorrow when he will have more time to expand his views, and will give the House the benefit of his own experience. If members of the Opposition wish to point to a political initiative of a fruitful character which we could take, they should do so. I believe that so far the Government has done all that is reasonably possible, considering the facts of the case, both in respect of political initiative and in providing supplies to help the refugees. 
I thank the honourable member for Darling  (Mr PitzPatrick)  for paying so much attention to a question I asked the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  The honourable member's speech, on the whole, has confirmed the answer given by the Minister. Pressure is applied by the unions through the various industrial agreements they have. Perhaps it is wrong to say that this necessarily is the doing of the Barrier Industrial Council. So far as union relations with the mining companies are concerned, these are fairly well-known. If this is what the unions want and demand, naturally the mining companies find that it is healthy to go along with them. In fact this is how they get harmony. There are sufficient matters of one sort or another for dispute in Broken Hill and they are not going to waste industrial powder and shot on the unions over a question like this. 
In the Commonwealth Public Service a lot of anomalies have been wiped out in the last few years. Women now have equal rights of employment, whether married or single. Equal pay has not yet come in completely but is being introduced progressively. In the last few years the Commonwealth Government has moved a great distance in this field. It was not very long ago that every single woman in the Commonwealth Public Service was automatically sacked when she married, so we have advanced. It might be said also that some glimmer of advance has taken place in sections of the trade union movement. I noticed a few nights ago that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions was complaining at a big union meeting that no women were present. Whatever his conduct may be in other respects, in this respect at least he nominally does show considerable glimmerings of light and hope for the future. The honourable member for Darling certainly has not convinced me. I can see that he would not be wrong about the Barrier Industrial Council itself being responsible as distinct from the unions and members of unions. The same people are involved. 
There are separate instruments and one can accept that there are. But very largely there are the same people wearing different hats and the same prejudices are applied strongly all round. If the mining companies, the retailers, the hoteliers or anyone else does not go along they are liable to be blotted out. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service a question further to my question last Tuesday on the control by the unions of employment of women in Broken Hill. Is it a fact that on 4 separate occasions during the year every unionist in Broken Hill is obliged forcibly to wear his badge? Is it a fact that every unionist in Broken Hill is obliged to buy the daily paper published by the Barrier Industrial Council however many unionists may be living under the same roof? Will the Minister say further to what extent life and liberties enjoyed by subjects elsewhere in Australia are in Broken Hill subject to union dictatorship? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. When  Mr Hawke  was first elected  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and on a number of subsequent occasions, the last being only a few days ago, he announced that the ACTU was about to establish its own hire purchase organisation for the benefit of trade unionists. Can the Treasurer say whether, after all this talk, any business has actually been transacted, or would it be more correct to regard the proposal put forward as a mere public relations exercise designed to pull the wool over the eyes of unsuspecting trade unionists? 
1 think that firstly before going into details about the Budget we should consider why this is such a highly exceptional period and why this Budget necessarily therefore is of a marking time character with its main emphasis thrown on a capacity to move in a different direction in a few months time if circumstances require it. The exceptional circumstances stem from a tremendous demand for higher wages, salaries and payments of all sorts. This movement which is notable mainly for its strength, duration and the ruthlessness of its demands and the way in which they are pressed, is not new except to Australia. In fact, it has gone through most of the Western world. It has hit us rather late but in its path it has, of course, left a great deal of wreckage and confusion. Normal wage and salary increases can be digested with the growth of national income and the gradual expansion, of the currency over a period but the quickness of the pace with which this has hit us has thrown all our calculations right out of order. Public finance is very largely dependent upon the payment of salaries and the increases in salaries which have been awarded by the different arbitration tribunals against the States have completely and utterly wrecked the States' finances, and the Commonwealth in turn must find most of the money and this has disturbed our own finances. lt is very difficult to predict what the future course will be. It might be said that an estimate has been made in this Budget and that a certain rate of wage increases has been assumed and built into the Budget with expenditure planned accordingly, but there is no guarantee that these expectations or estimates will be anything like realised. This is why at this time we have to be able to retain the initiative to change policy if it proves necessary. In a speech last night the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - I suppose naturally like all Leaders of the Opposition - was wildly irresponsible, particularly by coming in and suggesting that in a few months time we might have - I think he said - as many as 100,000 or even 200,000 unemployed. This is an irresponsible thing to say and it rests on a very sketchy analysis. The only basis for his assumption is that there will be, if the Budget works out all right, a large domestic surplus towards the end of the financial year.  His  prediction is that at that stage this will suck out so much currency and so much of the money supply that employment will fall. That is again a very questionable proposition because, apart from the doubts we have as to what will happen to wages and salaries in Australia in the future, we have also to take into account that recently we had a very large capital inflow which could also throw out our liquidity calculations towards the end of the year. The whole basis of the Leader of the Opposition's speech was that there were a number of items on which it would be desirable to spend public moneys. He has in recent times been speaking in particular about spending enormous sums of money on the cities in order to put them right. In view of the state in which some of our cities are at present it could easily be that we will have to spend several hundred millions of dollars to improve them to the desired standard. 
In his usual manner the Leader of the Opposition indicated all of the things that should be done, but he did not indicate how they could be paid for. One of his failures as the Leader of the Opposition has been to sketch out an economic policy. He has never put together an economic policy. He has produced large shopping lists of things on which money should be spent but he has never explained how these things would be paid for or what the taxation policy of the Australian Labor Party would be if it were in office. In the absence of this information, it is very difficult to fathom what would in fact happen if the Labor Party were returned to power and what it would do in the very vital field of public finance. 
One subject which the Leader of the Opposition did not mention in his speech last night but which I would have expected him to mention because the Labor Party is very keen on it is the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. I should expect that some of his supporters would have been disappointed about him not mentioning this matter. One thing which is notable about a national superannuation scheme and which influences the shapes and sizes of schemes which could be produced is the fact that the resources have to be transferred to the passive elements of the community, that is, the superannuated people, from the active elements of the community, that is, those people who are employed. Whatever mechanism is employed - whether it be by way of taxation contributions or other means - the broad result would be the transfer of resources from the active to the passive elements of the community. I think the Labor Party and anyone else who attempted to introduce such a scheme would find when they started to evolve the details of it that considerable resistance would develop among the young and among married people who are bringing up families to the providing of resources on such a large scale to the older members of our community. Such a move would, of course, undermine the arrangements which have been reached in recent years whereby individuals have been encouraged as far as possible to make their own provision for retirement. The extent to which people are contributing to superannuation schemes, particularly to schemes run by their employers, is increasing throughout the community. Superannuation has become a more common object of wage and salary negotiations. I would be very surprised if this movement were not greatly speeded up in the very near future. 
 That scheme has nothing to do with what the Commonwealth is doing now. I am not an expert on  Sir Henry  Bolte's scheme. I do not suppose that the honourable member is, either. I dare say that the honourable member could look it up elsewhere or make inquiries about it from the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who has probably studied it. 
But it has nothing to do with what I am talking about -now. The fact is that the number of superannuation schemes in existence is growing and that these schemes are spreading throughout the community. This Parliament has also approved of a considerable development in the life assurance field in that it has granted concessions under the income tax legislation to those people who pay life assurance premiums. If a national superannuation scheme were to be introduced it would jeopardise the whole process because the taxpayers could not afford to meet the income tax concessions granted for payments to life assurance companies whilst at the same time financing a superannuation scheme. It will be interesting to see the form in which a national superannuation scheme is evolved - whether it will look like something for nothing or will be a much more truthful scheme. Any such scheme would present a good many difficulties. I am not saying that a scheme could not be evolved. All I am saying is that no statement has yet been made by any party on the severe practical difficulties which would be involved in the transfer of resources. Another thing which did occur to me at the time 1 was listening to the Leader of the Opposition mentioning all the things on which he would like to spend money is something which does in a way point to an impasse that has been reached in public finance. Assuming that the economy settles down and gets on a fairly even keel again so that financial landmarks are not continually eroded by the process of increased prices, one of the things that impress me is this: If in the future governments are to play a larger part in the economic life of the country by undertaking some of the new things that have been proposed in the fields of education, health and the environment- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I remind the honourable member for Sturt that interjections are out of order. 
Certain barriers have been reached in the field of public finance. It is a matter which would be considered important by anyone who wanted to indulge in extra expenditure than in fact the existing method of financing Budgets - the sources available - have almost been exhausted. For instance, the personal income tax scale has already reached the stage where the progressive rate has been pushed up so high that it is a positive disincentive to enterprise. It will be remembered that last year there was great national agitation on this point. Even the Australian Council of Trade Unions accepted this principle very freely. In view of the increases in salaries that have occurred this year it would be no doubt even keener on it. I am sorry to note that the personal income tax has been increased again this year by increasing the levy from 2) per cent to 5 per cent. However, such a move is necessary in view of the fact that additional revenue has to be raised to finance the extra social service and other benefits which have been granted. But there is certainly no future in looking at personal income tax or, for that matter, company income tax as sources of great revenue in the future. 
The honourable member for Melbourne  Ports  (Mr Crean),  whose main task will be to have a sobering influence on the thinking out of economic policy by the Labor Party, would have to consider this matter, especially if he had to finance at the behest of his Leader all the extravagant promises his leader has put forward in order to get into office. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! 

Those remarks seemed to come from the very seat of learning,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  If expenditure is to be increased greatly a new source of revenue will have- to be found. I have touched on one or two of the sources of revenue that I think have been exhausted already. An experiment was made a little while ago in this regard by branching out into the field of receipts tax. That experiment gradually ground to a halt. It has since been discredited. The only real source of big revenue left now that I can. see is in the area of a retail turnover tax. A retail turnover tax that is applied at the rate of $1 in Si 00 - at the rate of 1 per cent - would yield the sum of approximately $200m. It is the only kind of fax that I can see at the moment which would offer the kind of potential to meet the wishes of those people who want to spend on greatly expanding activities. 
Sitting suspended  from 6 to 8  p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended for dinner I was referring to the only possible future sources of revenue. At this point I should like to take up one remark which the Leader of the Opposition made. He gave his support to the exercise of programming . budgeting. After all, this is one of the matters which ought to exercise greatly the minds of honourable members, because over the years it provides the key to this House for controlling the allocation of Australian resources, and that, primarily, is the objective of the Budget and the consideration which this House gives to the Budget. 
At the present time we operate under a system which really dates back to the end of the 17th century and has scarcely been changed since. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the course of his speech indicated - I thought very aptly - that henceforth forward estimates would be prepared to cover a period of 3 years. One of the great disabilities in the present system is that we view matters for only 1 year ahead, and this is much too short a period in which to discern where it is that ultimately we are going and where it is that we are being taken. 
Basically, the difficulties with the present Budget system are, firstly, that as it is an annual budget it looks only one year ahead - it has a very short-term horizon. Secondly, traditionally the budget classifies things into the types of resources used to produce a result; that is, it reveals to us, as members of Parliament, the staff, the buildings, the office equipment and the cost of harnessing those resources for the purposes which we have in view. Of course, the Budget is useful for the strict narrower purpose of financial control, but it does not give us sufficient information about the purposes for which expenditure is incurred and the cost of achieving results. 
The first reform which we need is to introduce realistic forward estimates, and the Treasurer has already indicated that this will be done. The second reform needed is a functional classification of Commonwealth expenditure and the purposes for which expenditure is incurred. Firstly, a forward look at expenditure is essential. Estimates have to be prepared accurately, from the best sources available, and they have to be approved by Ministers as being realistic and the best intentioned. Secondly, the Budget has to disclose the purposes for which the expenditure is required. I hope that the Leader of the Opposition will continue to support these proposals because, if I may say so, no-one needs them more than he does. Every time he speaks in this chamber he lists a magnificent series of objects of expenditure which appeal to us and which would appeal to anybody. The essential point which he omits is the amount of Australian resources which would be required to achieve those objectives. When he learns the basic lesson of government, that is, to balance ends and means, and understands that he cannot achieve his objectives unless he has the resources, we will get realistic programmes coming forward from the Opposition. So having mentioned that matter, I hope that the Leader of the Opposition supports this process. Of course, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports understands what is meant by this process. As the Leader of the Opposition clearly does not understand what is meant, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has a great educational job to do, and I hope he succeeds in doing it. The sooner we get around to adopting a system like this, the sooner parliamentary debates on the Budget will become meaningful. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members ot the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 271 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47) per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 10 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  whether in fact this tactical trainer will protrude above the skyline on South Head or whether it will be totally submerged within the existing landscape. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts who is now the focal point of a campaign by all, Australian governments to prevent pollution of the atmosphere and natural amenities, especially by industry and public authorities. He also has under his authority, as one of his manifold duties, the Government Printing Office and the incinerator attached to it. I ask: Is the Minister aware of the large quantity of offensive smoke that is emitted daily from this incinerator and which pollutes a considerable area of Canberra? Will he go into this matter and make it his early business to rid Canberra of this nuisance? Will he also consult his colleague, the Minister for the Interior, about the primitive arrangements for burning unpleasant rubbish in open dumps in the vicinity of the Causeway which is now permitted by his colleague's Department? Furthermore will he consider the construction of one modern incinerator to dispose of the whole of Canberra's garbage without nuisance to anyone in accordance with the best recent local practice of governments in the States? 
I address a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry concerning a letter which the Leader of the Opposition sent out about 3 weeks ago to a large number of businessmen with possible interests in trading with China. This letter, after providing a good deal of information which is freely available, I believe, from the Minister's Department, stated that no official- 
Can the Minister for the Navy give the House some indication of the very serious recent decline in the naval strength and sea power of the United States compared with that of the Soviet Union? Can he say whether there has been any substantial recent increase in Soviet naval activity and operations in the Indian Ocean? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Navy. Is it true that the Royal Australian Navy has been taking soil from excavations at South Head and dumping it over the cliff into Sydney Harbour? If this is so, will it despoil the environment? Is it true that complaints have been received from fishermen that this action would be a serious hazard to fish life in the vicinity? 
As this debate has gone on we have got further and further away from the Bill and its true purposes. To begin with, I would like to say to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that this Bill as such has nothing whatever to do with foreign interests foreign takeovers or foreign shareholding. 
The main objective of this Bill is to prevent any one shareholder acquiring more than 10 per cent of the capital and thus preventing any one group obtaining control. This a very old working principle in the Australian banking system. 
The Bank of New South Wales, which is our oldest bank, has had for a very long time in its charter, which is subject I think to the original British legislation, a provision severely curtailing the shares which any one shareholder may acquire or own. The object of this, of course, was to prevent any one shareholder or any one small group obtaining control of a bank. This is done for a very special reason. I refer to the fact that the Banking Act does confer peculiar and special privileges on those who hold banking licences and this carries with it the capacity to create credit and provide cheque facilities. In other words, it does have a very close relationship to the total volume of money extended in Australia. The object of the Bill is to circumscribe this function. 
I think that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said earlier that this Bill had the support of the Australian Labor Party, but, of course, this is a very limited Bill. It does not provide for all the other things which various honourable members have tacked on to it and built into this debate. I would like to refer also to the remarks of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  because he seems to think that all finance companies are first cousins to the local pawnbroker and charged interest rates accordingly. 
Well, this by 1971 is a very simple view of finance companies and merchant banks which in fact do provide a lot of sophisticated credit facilities. They have found ways and means of financing all kinds of ventures which would not be known in Australia if we had not had some foreign interests coming in and certainly we would not have anything like the sophisticated monetary system that we have now if these companies had not taken root here. I think that this view is a correct one. 
I refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  who noted the fact that over recent years the proportion of finance and loans made by the banking system relative to other institutions had steadily declined from about 70 per cent in the early 1950s down to less than 50 per cent at present, lt is true that the first impact of this change was probably to lead to a deterioration in the quality of credit granted. Inexperienced institutions collected money, began lending, made losses and so forth, compared with the long established experience of the banks themselves. But these institutions have contributed a great deal towards bringing the system up to date and ensuring that in fact our financial system kept well abreast of world standards.  The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  worked General Motors into the subject. It is worth noting, particularly after the remarks of the honourable member for Cunningham, that it was  Mr Chifley  himself who determined the arrangements under which General Motors has operated in this country. 
Well, he made the arrangements and he did so with considerable foresight because we now have a company which contributes more to our foreign exchange receipts every year than it takes out of the country and in fact a large proportion of its top personnel are Australian. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith seemed to have the idea that research and everything else were done by American citizens. I would suggest that if the honourable member were to go to some of the General Motors research institutes, the personnel there would be pleased to show him around. The honourable member could see in fact who is there, what kind of people they are and what nationality they are. To bring General Motors into this debate is like introducing a red herring. Such is irrelevant to this issue which, as I said, has nothing to do really with foreign investment. 
This Bill is aimed at limiting a total shareholding in any bank. The reason for this is quite different. Such a move wi!'; prevent takeovers; it will prevent one group from getting together, acquiring the assets of a bank and using them for its financial purposes. This is an important aim in itself. The ownership of a bank by one shareholder is limited. Of course, the possibility of further legislation may now come into view as far as the merchant banking and finance community is concerned, after the Concrete Pipes decision. But this is a subject which has been long under close scrutiny and study by experts in our Reserve Bank and the Treasury. It is a matter which has been the subject of a great deal of expert thought and consideration. 
In this connection it is worth mentioning - and I am sure that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has probably seen this already - that Britain has been confronted with very much the same problem - that is the problem of the banks financing a shrinking sector of the community and losing ground continually to other financial institutions. Britain has recently established a highly competitive system to restore full-blooded competition between the banks composing the banking system and has also made new arrangements so that the banks are in direct and continuous competition with all the other finance companies and credit institutions. I would suggest to the honourable member for KingsfordSmith that he would find it fruitful to study these examples, particularly if he has in mind bringing forward any legislative changes because there are many possibilities coming into view in a field which has operated virtually on one system or with one mode with small modifications for 25 years. 
Again, far be it from me to throw any doubt on  Mr Chifley's  great understanding of the banking system, banks, what went on there, industry generally and how to handle the situation. I wish that this part of his wisdom had been transmitted to some of his successors. However, honourable members opposite may remember that in applying the Labor principles on banking he put himself and his Party out of office and it has stayed there for a very long time. 
Has the Minister for the Navy seen an editorial reference to the project on South Head as a Navy toy shed which could well be located anywhere else? Will the Minister say what is the precise purpose of this construction? Must it be at South Head? 
The first thing to be noted about this subject is that the lands in question have been under the custody of the Commonwealth at least since Federation. The difference between land which has been under the custody of the Commonwealth government and land which has been under the charge of the State government is that the latter, under successive State governments, has been built upon, built over, suburbanised and reduced to its present condition. Suddenly it has become the public will that lands which have been conserved all this time by the Commonwealth should be proscribed and that the arrangements should be dictated by those very authorities who elsewhere have desecrated the landscape. Unlike some honourable members, I happen to live within a mile of where this has been going on. So for some considerable number of years I have taken the closest interest in what has been done there. 
This whole case must really rest on whether it is necessary to have the naval trainer and to have it there in Watson's Bay. If it is necessary, ways and means must be found to provide it there, whether or not it is vital for the defence of Sydney Harbour or the defence of Australia. This is what the case must rest on. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  quoted from various reports, but the basic assumption of these reports is that it is not necessary to have it there. The case must rest on this. Certainly I would agree with him that if it were not necessary to have the naval base at Watson's Bay the installation there could easily and reasonably be moved elsewhere or this new installation could be constructed elsewhere. I would go along with that and support it completely. Obviously it would be more pleasant for me than for anyone else in this House to have within a mile of my home a nice bit of park on which to walk and conduct my recreation. The same applies to the rest of the district. This would be an ideal solution. 
If the tactical trainer were not necessary I would support the proposal of the Opposition. I have been following this matter with the very closest interest. 1 have watched its development under the guidance of about S successive Ministers for the Navy, one of whom, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  sits behind me. I have also discussed it in great depth with the naval authorities which have been concerned from time to time. They change every 2 years. I have been over every inch of it with the present  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee who was the Chief of Naval Staff, and others. I am reluctantly convinced that this installation has got to be there. I can understand - I do not want to make this a personal matter - why the honourable members for Hughes- 
1 will tell the honourable member in a minute. I can understand why the honourable member for Hughes and the honourable member for Reid are opposed to this project. I agree with them that if it were not necessary, their proposals and the ones initiated by the New South Wales Government should be accepted. The fact is that this is a wartime necessity. The honourable member for Reid and the honourable member for Hughes do not recognise this. They are not interested in the defence of Australia. They are prominent in anti-war and peace movements. This is their viewpoint. 
 I rise to support the Bill and to oppose the amendment, but in doing so I would like to agree very much with a number of things that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has just said regarding the impact and influences of granting tax deductions and concessions instead of using other means. However, what I want to stress is not what he has stressed. He mentioned, but I want to stress, the unfortunate effects that these have on incentive. The fact that the potential revenue is so much reduced by these tax allowances means, as he said, that in order to collect the total revenue required the general rate of tax has to be kept higher. What I intend to do is lay a little stress in my remarks on the subject of incentive. I believe that incentive is at the very root of economic progress and if an economy is to be ebullient, progressive and successful the work of the individuals contributing to it has to be imbued with a very strong incentive. 
Most people are moved by a variety of incentives, but the most powerful in almost all walks of life is undoubtedly that of personal monetary gain. From a public finance point of view, if incentive is to be encouraged then individuals must be able to benefit progressively from their personal efforts without the tax gatherer taking too much of the fruits of their efforts. It also means that when a man does increase his earnings by individual effort he is able to keep for himself and his family a fairly big proportion of this increase without the state taking an undue proportion of it away from him. If the state bears down too harshly upon him his incentive to earn is progressively weakened. Early last year this had become fairly evident to many people, lt became generally realised that one of the many frustrating effects of inflation was that as soon as wage and salary earners obtained greater rewards they were automatically carried into a higher tax bracket and thus a large proportion of their personal gains was swallowed up by the tax gatherer. They were deprived of the fruits of their efforts. 
This affected professional people and middle income earners particularly harshly. It became very apparent, not least notably to the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and in 1970 when the ACTU made its submissions to the Government the main point in them was the necessity to reduce the burden of taxation on low and middle incomes. It is true that there was not any particular agreement as to which were low and which were middle incomes and so forth, but the principle was there all right, and those views were reinforced by many others. It is quite certain that what is happening now in the industrial process with increased awards and rises in wages, when so much of this is absorbed by the tax gatherer, is that as the individuals concerned move into higher tax brackets this will lead to further industrial unrest and generate fresh income demands. Governments have to realise sometime that they can take a more reasonable proportion of personal income by taxation without weakening incentive only if they recognise some reasonable ceiling on the process; otherwise if they continue to press taxation increases they will in various ways come up against a silent but sullen and very effective rebellion against the process. 
By now both personal and company taxation have certainly risen to, if not pressed beyond, the maximum practical point without running into this reverse factor and fresh measures to carry the burden of personal and company taxation still further will be fatally weakened by this process and the economy will gradually lose its mainspring and its zest. For incentives to flourish reductions must be made mainly in the general rate. Tax concessions, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports pointed out, however welcome to those immediately affected, do not promote incentive. In fact, to make up for the revenue they cost the genera] rate has to be kep higher than otherwise would be the case and, moreover, they are inequitable in their impact. Take the new education concession, which in this Budget has gone from $300 to $400 per child: For a man on a taxable income of $20,000 this is worth to him $266 in rough terms. To a man with an income of $3,500 it means about $107. As the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  pointed out last week or the week before, this is progressive taxation in reverse, lt follows the old principle of 'to him that hath shall be given'. It makes the rich purr and the poor pay. It does nothing for incentive or equity and very little for education. To be effective in assisting families this concession should be given in the form of a fixed rebate of total taxation for all family people and not be specifically designed to give a concession which increases with the wealth of the individual recipient. 
There are other aspects of this particular tax concession. There are other ways of the state's granting direct to the individuals concerned some allowance for education without it going through the machine.ery. By giving a rebate of so much per child the money can in effect be paid straight to the parent from the Commonwealth Government and not through the other mechanism. It has to be recognised that in order to pay by our present system we do erect a large bureaucracy, with huge paraphernalia, to conduct negotiations with the States, to make inquiries as to how much money is wanted, to look at individual schools. The bureaucrats, those employed and their dependants, and the others ancillary to the process consist very largely of highly educated people who could be using their qualifications to teach and thus help in easing the current shortage of teachers instead of being used in the bureaucratic management of these funds. This is well worth the thought of the Government. It would provide help for education by paying direct to the parents through tax concessions instead of through the Commonwealth to the States and then to the parents and handing out in small driblets to different schools and developing a good many arguments in the process. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was stressing the importance of incentive in a tax structure and saying that the extension indefinitely of allowances and deductions from personal income tax did in fact reduce the revenue and force up the income tax rates which had to be imposed, and that in forcing up the rates incentive was undermined. Allowances, whatever else they do - and they have many purposes - do not contribute anything to incentive. In fact, their net effect is to reduce it. I also deplored the fact that although last year an attack was made on the rates of personal income tax and the rate of tax payable was reduced by about 10 per cent on incomes up to $20,000 a year, thus enabling the taxation scale to be modified, this process has not only been abandoned but has actually been thrown into reverse. 
The overall levy of 2i per cent on the total amount of tax payable preferably should have been eliminated last year, but because of the exigencies of that time this was not possible. But it should have remained the objective to get rid of this  2i  per cent imposition; instead, it has been doubled. It is easy to understand how governments drift into this trap. Difficulty tends to be experienced in raising the necessary revenue to meet the expenditure which has been approved. But incentive is at the very basis of the economy. It is a Budget right in itself which ought to be given proper weight. In an arithmetical exercise, which is what the Budget is, the question of incentive ought rightly to be considered, and incentive must be pursued with vigour and consistency. If incentive does not become a prime objective, it gets lost in the rush and is adjusted to fit in with the other exigencies of the Budget. 
I do not subscribe to the idea, which is now current, that all one has to do when there is a big down-turn is to squirt a little credit in here or there and the whole process is thereby reversed. I personally believe that we are at the end of an 8-year cycle of expansion which began in 1962. There has been a steady expansion since 1962. This process of expansion has run its course. Many other complicated factors, such as huge increases in salaries and wages, have disturbed the cost element. They have thrown the profitability of many industries and undertakings into some considerable doubt. These factors have to be absorbed by the economy, and it will be quite a long time before this is achieved. But if, in fact, the Government feels that it is desirable to go in again for expansion I would not at this stage advocate monetary expansion or an increase in government expenditure to achieve the same result; instead, I would advocate that the Government should look very carefully at the tax scales and take advantage of this situation. It should not make a quick expansion in government expenditure or bank credit, but should seriously consider making a sizable reduction in personal and company income tax. 
This practice has been followed in some other countries, particularly in the United States of America, which have found themselves in similar circumstances. This, to my mind, would be a preferable approach to expansion, rather than adopting some short term idea that we should indulge in a bit of expenditure or expansion of the money supply and by adopting such short term measures reverse the entire trade cycle. I believe that whatever is done we have exaggerated the success and completeness of short term monetary management and fiscal management by governments, and at the end of a trade cycle, quite apart from what has happened in other fields, this does very severely limit the potential of governments to bring about a quick revival. 
I intend to deal with what at least potentially is the most significant item of the estimates - the fact that the Navy aims to toss a huge sponge into the very shallow pool of available defence resources. I refer to the DDL concept, which has already been dealt with by one or two previous speakers. This plan follows a technical thought - that the Navy has probably produced a masterpiece to meet Australia's requirements. But the subject I wish to deal with in connection with this matter is one which really belongs to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  with his wider conceptual responsibilities rather than to the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  with his rather more narrowly confined responsibilities. The Navy has done an enterprising thing. It has assembled a first class team of experts in all aspects of naval construction and other ancillary matters. It has welded these experts into a design team to produce a ship which answers as nearly perfectly as possible the technical requirements specified by the naval staff. The idea is that gradually these projected new ships which follow in the existing pattern of strategic planning will produce a series of ships which will be more formidable than their predecessors which they will replace as their predecessors grow old. We shall at the end of 20 or 25 years or some extended period be equipped with much more formidable ships cast in the same mould of thought as the ships we have at present. Clearly the cost will be astronomical. This is the time for honourable members to think about this and to offer their views to the Government. We have been told that no decision to go ahead with this plan or even to complete the full scale designs has yet been made. So this is now the time to offer the Government what advice we can and also seek from it the kind of information we want before we approve this huge expenditure. The programme is obviously conceived in technical naval terms rather than on the basis of Australia's resources available for defence. 
It is proposed to construct these vessels at the Williamstown and Cockatoo dockyards. Of course, in the process we shall re-equip these dockyards with more up to date equipment, and we will spend a lot of money on that. We shall also ' encourage several electronic firms to expand their capacity and industry at large to conceive and construct a number of items which it will be necessary to put into the new DDLs. But there are Australian shipbuilding resources in addition to those at the Williamstown and Cockatoo dockyards. These 2 dockyards have a horrible history of industrial relations. Bad industrial relations are liable to flare up at any time and to hamstring the programme and delay matters, and this, in addition to all the other disabilities associated with bad industrial relations, gets in the way of a proper construction programme. 
There are other shipbuilding resources which might be used for the naval shipbuilding programme. I refer to Walker Brothers ship building yards at Maryborough, the Evans Deakin at Brisbane, the New South Wales State dockyard at Newcastle and the shipbuilding yards of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Whyalla. All these are potential sources of shipbuilding which should be considered in relation to out total seagoing programme. In the recent edition of Jane's Fighting Ships' the editor wrote a very interesting article. Similar thought have also been written in a number of American publications. Basically, the thesis of these articles is that technological factors have changed entirely the basic concept of sea power. The Russian Navy has led the way. It has concentrated on perfecting surface to surface missiles mounted on relatively cheap ships which provide a platform for these weapons. These ships are much more cheaply constructed than most naval vessels. They are cheap to maintain and to crew. When they are armed with proper guided missile systems they can be as formidable as any other ships and could well hold at bay larger, more modern and more powerful ships belonging to other navies. 
Recently West Germany conceived and was about to execute a programme similar to our own DDL programme, but after reconsidering the proposal the West German Government decided to scrap it and proceed to build a larger number of cheaper ships which are to be equipped with surface to surface guided missiles. This is a sphere in which I think undoubtedly the West has fallen behind the Soviet Union in thought and in evolution because it has stuck very largely to surface to air weapons, which are not especially designed to meet our purposes. Obviously our circumstances are different from those of West Germany. Its Navy operates in the narrow waters of the Baltic; therefore it has a very much more restricted area in which to operate than has the Australian Navy, but there are undoubtedly many common factors which need to be carefully examined. Certainly our new DDLs will be as near to naval perfection as we can get them. But relatively they will be RollsRoyce ships, whereas our capacity and the new technological factors dictate that sea power can be asserted with much cheaper ships and more numerous ships. Conditions of this kind offer Australia for the first time the prospect of becoming a considerable naval power. The same factors apply to Indonesia and our other neighbours in this area. A united effort of defence cooperation with our neighbours along these lines could in fact make the whole area and all the countries in our part of the world very much safer, and it would be extremely difficult and costly, in terms of losses and casualties, for any other power, however big. to attack. 
I believe that we should be examining the prospect of embarking on a programme which is less expensive than the DDL programme but which would provide cheaper ships and enable us to use all our naval shipbuilding facilities. We want to make sure that what we want is not just a few hand picked, very carefully conceived Rolls-Royce type ships but quite a considerable number of Holden type ships. Noone, who is not equipped with naval information and all the technical factors involved, can be sure on this question, but we can count upon the fact that the Navy will do its best to produce the types of ships not only to do the kinds of jobs which the present ships do but also to do those jobs rather better. I hope that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  if he has not gone into these matters as yet - and I do not think he has because no decision has yet been made - will explain to this chamber the DDL programme now suggested by the Navy and also examine the alternative which, in the terms of Australian resources in the broad sense, may be a better investment for Australia. 
My question addressed to the Treasurer concerns the statement he made on 31st August foreshadowing legislation to deal with dividend stripping. Is he aware of the widespread concern that the wording of his statement has caused, espe cially amongst those responsible for private companies which draw dividends from shares in public companies upon which tax has already been paid but who are not party to dividend stripping deals, yet nevertheless fear that some new impost will be levied upon their companies? Can the Treasurer assure the House that, great care will be taken in drafting the legislation to confine its impact to dividend stripping, to avoid unfortunate unintended side effects and not to breach important long established principles of taxation? 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that the complete manufacture of motor cars in Australia gives rise to the expansion of basic engineering facilities and the training of a skilled labour force which add considerably to our industrial and defence potential? Is it also a fact that the mere assembly of motor car parts, whether imported from overseas or produced locally, is a relatively simple and cheap operation which adds variety to consumer choice but not much to our basic industrial structure? Has the volume of imports of completely built up cars and parts for assembly gravely limited the total market available for the sale of cars fully manufactured in Australia? Is it Government policy to keep the market primarily for cars fully manufactured in Australia or to allow the matter to be settled by events? Will the Minister make a statement of Government policy in the near future to guide those making the massive investment decisions involved in this industry and to remove the current state of uncertainty? 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has followed the same course as he has followed in this House for many years. He assumes that the Government has unlimited funds to spend on, in particular, housing and that resources are unlimited. Having, in the first place, assumed that endless public money is available to do what he wishes to be done he proceeded to argue what could be done with that kind of foundation. But one cannot begin to understand or solve the housing problems in Australia until one has first faced up to the essential reality that resources are strictly limited and that the public money available is, similiarly, strictly limited. The honourable member for Reid is, of course, personally a very kind and generoushearted, grandfatherly figure. He is kind enough to want to do all these things and silly enough to think that they are practicable. 
1 have never doubted the honourable member for Reid's heart, but unfortunately the realities of public finance and responsibility are inescapable. One of the things that the honourable member for Reid did not face up to is the fact that the areas available in the inner areas of the larger cities - Sydney and Melbourne in particular - for housing arc strictly limited and are becoming year by year scarcer and scarcer. It is inevitable that as the demand for this land increases the price which has to be paid foi; it will also increase. I am not saying that in defence of all that goes on within this sphere. I am saying it because the real reason why housing is becoming more difficult and more expensive it that land is becoming extremely scarce. 
I wish to deal with one or two matters which have been raised if not by the honourable member for Reid certainly at his instigation by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Firstly, I understand - the honourable member for Reid certainly will correct me if I am wrong - that the Australian Labor Party would if it were in office subsidise the interest on home mortgages by 2 per cent. What a lovely thing to do! Let us examine one or two of the consequences which would flow from such a policy. Firstly, the bigger the mortgage the bigger the subsidy one would receive from the state. Saving would, of course, be no longer a paying proposition. One of the reasons why people save is to pay off their house as quickly as possible. But under such a scheme they would get a 2 per cent interest concession. One can readily visualise that most enterprising people - and these things spread very quickly through the community - would ensure that, whatever else they owned, they had the largest possible mortgage they could have on their houses because, with the lower rate of interest, they could undoubtedly invest their funds elsewhere at a much higher rate of interest. The generous donation offered by the Australian Labor Party would have to come from public funds. 
There are other aspects of the Labor Party's policy which it is said would, if realised, ease the problem. The Leader of the Opposition has indicated that if the Labor Party were in power it would institute a public inquiry into the inducement of people to have fewer children. If that policy were successful it would, of course, alter the housing problem. The amount of accommodation required would be very much less. I would like to suggest, as something of a diversion at this point of time, that the tendency to buy propaganda from overseas and think that it is immediately relevant to Australian conditions is both absurd and quite contrary to our national interest. It is true that in other countries - particularly the overcrowded countries, many of which are in our part of the world - the standard of living and of welfare generally is bound to fall if there is no limitation of the population; but that is not true of Australia. In fact, it is starkly and obviously untrue. If we are going to populate this country - and we still retain the ambition to do that in our own time and under our own terms - the best people that we can seek are our own natural-born children. 
I think the honourable member for Reid really missed or failed to bring out the main point of this Bill. Over the years there has been under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement a 1 per cent concession on interest. That concession has been nominally for the purpose of enabling the States to provide more housing for the lower income groups but, things being what they are, it has been in fact generalised over the whole operations of the housing commissions in the various States and has not been specifically and sufficiently diverted to- the people on low incomes. The way in which this legislation is drafted will mean that such assistance as the Commonwealth gives will go directly and immediately towards providing housing for the lower income groups. In particular it will be directed towards meeting the shortage of cheap rental accommodation for families of inadequate means. 
The old system never really achieved this result. That is understandable. In many of the States - in fact, in most of them - housing is essentially provided by housing commissions and the housing commissions are mostly house construction authorities. Being engaged in that operation, what they like to do is to construct as many houses as possible and sell as many of them as they can in order to invest those funds in building still more houses. This is a very understandable approach but it is not one which really aims at the same thing as does this Bill, that is, to provide cheap rentals and cheap housing for those who are most in need. The honourable member for Reid referred to housing commission lists. Housing commission lists are notoriously most unreliable. It stands to reason that the demand for the cheapest house is virtually unlimited. Nowadays housing commissions build good houses in many cases and there is a big inducement for people to sell their houses and get into housing commission houses at a cheap rate. If one goes through these lists - periodically the people in charge do go through them - one finds that they are very much padded. If one went through them with an eye to the income received by those 37,000 applicants, one would form a very different impression of the demand. 
The Bill provides direct assistance to the States. It is true - the honourable member for Reid touched on this lightly - that the first reaction of the States was not one of pleasure. This is understandable, because at first they did not precisely understand the proposal. It so happens that in South Australia, which has a Premier of the same political persuasion as the honourable member for Reid, there is an extremely capable and efficient housing set-up. The man who is in charge and has been for many years, Alex Ramsay, commented publicly on these proposals immediately he heard them. I think that his comment was published in the 'Advertiser' of 19th August, very hard upon the Budget. He realised immediately what benefits they would bring to the States and recorded his comments publicly to that end. On 20th September  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier, quantified the proposals and said: "This new deal means that the concession on housing going to the States will be raised from I per cent to nearly 2 per cent". Th;s was just a quick reaction. 
I am quoting this figure from  Mr Dunstan. Mr Dunstan  is advised by people who calculate proposals with much more exactitude than the honourable member for Reid does. That is what he said. Of course New South Wales welcomed the proposal. 1 realised this from the reactions. There were some slower heads in other States but when the facts were explained by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  they were very anxious to welcome the scheme. Unfortunately the census figures in relation to housing, which will be very revealing in this respect, are not yet out. We are not able to see them yet. But when we do, it will be very interesting to comb through them. lt is fairly evident to me at least that Australia, whatever its deficiencies, now has the best housed people in the world with more accommodation - and quite high quality accommodation - per head than any other country. If when the census comes out this cannot be confirmed I will withdraw that statement. But this is clearly the position at present. The housing industry is in quite good shape. Housing programmes in most States are continuing. Plenty of money is currently available for housing. But there is perhaps evident some slight falling off in demand and this is probably due to the underlying factor that we have invested such a huge proportion of the national income in housing in the last 20 years that we have caught up very largely with the huge stream of immigrants and at the same time have greatly increased standards. 
This position at the moment means that people are looking very closely at the costs. Costs are rising for various reasons. Apart from the scarcity of land there has been a huge increase in wages in the last 12 or 18 months which has added to costs. There has been an increase in the cost of building materials. Other factors enter into it. But also, in order to pay for these things, there has been an even larger proportionate increase in the income receipts of those who are engaged in buying and renting housing. So the outlook at the moment is quite serene. Various fears have been expressed in some quarters by people who fear that we are moving into a down-turn. But overall that is a question for another day. There is no reason at all for any pessimism in the housing industry. I support this measure very strongly. 1 congratulate the Minister for Housing upon the way in which he has persuaded the people involved to accept this course and has improved the basic situation for the lowest income groups. This is essentially the basic social improvement involved in this legislation which, apart from the direct grant for cheaper housing for these groups, also provides for a payment of $1.25m a year for rental assistance. Over and above all these things the new payment arrangements means that the Commonwealth will meet the 0.25 per cent sinking fund contribution and thus will very largely take over the sinking fund obligations, which would amount to $1 14m over 53 years. In practice these sums depend on what the States decide to spend on housing. An important incidental factor is that this responsibility is now placed where it squarely belongs - in the hands of the States. The States will now decide through the year and at any time that it is appropriate what they will allocate from their loan funds to housing. We have got out of the old system whereby the State Premiers used to come here once a year and used to have to nominate what proportion of their total loan funds should be allocated to housing. The Bill will give the State authorities a very much greater say and initiative in how they spend their loan funds and how they set their priorities, not just at the beginning of the year. If necessary they may switch them during the year without any formality. I oppose the amendment and I very strongly support the Minister and this Bill. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I present the  following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of. one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the Stale school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. Your petitioners most humbly pray thatthe House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediatesteps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
These 3 Bills in the aggregate cover such a wide field that they really impinge on the whole economy. The primary cause of our economic troubles at present is the excessive rise in wages and salaries and hence of costs, which has taken place throughout the economy except in the depressed rural sector. In the June quarter of 1970 average weekly earnings were 9 per cent above those of a year earlier. In the June quarter of 1971, the last available figure, the increase was 13.4 per cent above a year earlier. The main single factor responsible for this last increase was the 6 per cent increase in total wage awards operative from January 1971. In addition there were sizeable increases in other awards, determinations and registered agreements. This process has in turn inevitably brought about consequent increases in costs, which have gone into prices. Price increases stimulate still higher wage claims and each round of wage increases upsets the relativity of other groups, who in turn become restive and seek further increases. 
There is a strict limit to the extent the economy can absorb this process without considerable disturbance. A number of firms and even whole industries are being progressively priced out of their markets. Unfortunately, still further wage increases are in the pipeline and when their effects are felt will bring about still further rises in prices and costs. So far there has been very little sign of this pressure abating. As long as it does persist we will be in a steadily worsening situation. Serious damage has already been done to the structure of industry. An increasing number of businesses are reporting a deteriorating profit situation. This in turn destroys confidence and inhibits investment. 
The aggregate demand for increased salaries and incomes is running more and more in excess of available resources. As it does so, prices are forced progressively higher. The distortions produced in the economy become more and more unmanageable. It is quite impossible over a period of time to consume more than we produce, but the attempt to do so is dislocating a growing proportion of our economy. It is not surprising therefore that as more and more industry gets into trouble, unemployment appears. So far this has been only minimal. At the end of October only 1.11 per cent of the estimated labour force was registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service. This is an extraordinarily low figure for any industrial country, and exaggerated reports of small increases here and there, based on low aggregate figures, often for the purpose of creating panic and sensation, do not alter this fact. It would be a very timid country that took alarm at this low figure. Moreover, it could scarcely be said that Government financial operations have been responsible for the slowing down of the economy. Propaganda about Budget strategy cannot alter facts. The Commonwealth domestic budget deficit for the first 4 months of the financial year up to 3 1st October was $926m or $230m greater than for last year. In the September quarter the volume of money increased by $50lm or 3.2 per cent compared with a rise of $201 m or 1.4 per cent in the same period last year. The October Bulletin of the Reserve Bank gives a total volume of $16,352m in September as against only $1 5,038m in September 1970. The trading banks and financial institutions also are generally in a more liquid position than they were a year ago. Between July and December of this year private business expects to invest $1,761 m compared with $ 1,392m in the same period last year. In the September quarter it invested $841ni or 27.5 per cent more than in the September quarter last year. Expenditure on building and structures was 37 per cent higher and on other new capital equipment. 22 per cent higher. In part, of course, this has been a response to the need for investment to absorb the rapid increase in the work force. 
Foreign capital has provided a very useful supplement, yet it has added little to the net income payable overseas. In the 5 years to 1968-69 this averaged only 1.7 per cent of the gross national product and 11.1 per cent of export receipts. What we are now experiencing is what could prove to be the end* of the longest continued cycle of expansion we have ever known in our economic history. It began in 1962. There have been some periods of hesitation and small bursts of slightly rising unemployment, but all these passing difficulties have been taken in our stride. The continued broad stream of expansion has carried us along and investment has grown steadily. Confidence in the future has been sustained. Our economy has continued to grow and the overseas estimates of our resources and prospects have kept growing investment resources flowing towards us. 
Financial and economic management has seemed to be very successful in restraining excess and keeping the economy on an even keel, but perhaps public opinion has been induced to take too shallow and naive a view of its efficacy and to forget all about underlying cyclical factors. The idea has become established that the Commonwealth Government is responsible for almost every economic event and that it has only to go around with an economic oil can squirting oil here and there to keep the whole machinery of the economy working smoothly. Within fairly narrow limits economic management has been effective, but it is now being swamped by a tidal wave of wage demands and excessive material expectations. No Western country has yet coped with this phenomenon successfully. If it persists too long in Australia the value of the Australian dollar eventually will sink to abysmal depths. Our 2 society will suffer a deep and abiding wound and personal security gradually will disappear. Orthodox economic measures are not likely to do the trick. Somehow we have to find a means to bring the current fever to an end. Common sense and discipline in the wages and salaries sector have to be restored somehow. Monetary expansion without this, whatever temporary stimulus it may afford, will, in the end, only compound our problems. 
We have learned what skilful economic and financial management can achieve. We are now confronted sharply with its limitations. If we think any government can correct the situation easily we are doomed to disappointment. This, of course, is what the Opposition throughout most of yesterday suggested was so easy. This leads me to point out in a practical way the economic implications of recent changes in fundamental Labor policy. For the last quarter century, the greatest expansion period in Australian history, the Australian Labor Party- 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That, the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiences in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required lo mi ve the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts nf public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will lake immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That the immediate prospect for nearly 70 million Bengalis in Bangla Desh and 9 million refugees in the northeast region of India is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that: 
The Australian Government immediately provide $10,000,000 in direct aid to refugees now in India and commit itself to a continuing aid programme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Treasurer yet received any notice of the registration of a hire purchase company, bank or other business undertakings which were promised to be introduced over a period of the last 2 years by the  president  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions or is the position, as far as he knows, that these and other undertakings are still in their perennial position of pie in the sky? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Loan Council agreed to exempt the Australian Industry Development Corporation from the obligation to 
obtain specific Loan Council approval to raise all loans for more than 12 months duration exceeding $300,000 and 
raise all overseas loans through and by the  Chairman  of the Loan Council, which applies to' all loans raised by statutory ' corporations, councils and semigovernmental bodies throughout Australia.' 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for National Development in his capacity as Leader of the House, concerns the report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee headed by  Mr Justice  Kerr. In view of the crucial significance of this subject to the future rights and liberties of all Australians will the Minister try to arrange that the report, now No. 36 on the notice paper, is brought forward for early debate? 
Has the Minister for Defence yet considered any alternative plan for re-equipping the Royal Australian Navy, other than through the DDL project for which preliminary plans have already been prepared and announced in the House? Has he given any instructions for the study of alternative designs to bring the cost per unit within the realistic financial compass of Australia so that the numbers required can be built? 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he can give the present position and potential of Project N, the light aircraft, which has been developed at a cost of $4m or $5m by the Government Aircraft Factories. 
What gave rise to this discussion originally - the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  made this quite clear - was the decision of the management of General Motors-Holden's Ltd to close its Mosman Park assembly plant in Western Australia. This plant was built in 1926 at a time when the Australian motor car industry consisted of a series of assembly plants for putting together parts imported from overseas for sale to the Australian public. At that time it cost about as much to send parts from the overseas sources to Fremantle as it did to send them to Sydney or any other main city in Australia. The remarkable thing about this plant is that, despite the great changes that have been taking place, it is still in operation. As I understand it, it is only a small plant in the midst of a large industrial area. Therefore in itself it is intrinsically unsuited to expansion, and considerable extra accommodation has had to be hired by General Motors-Holden's for both parking and storage purposes. When we consider that the Australian motor car industry is so radically different - it is concentrated in a much fewer number of plants in which components are transported from one part of the assembly to another by a highly elaborate system - it is really remarkable that the Mosman Park plant should still be in existence at all. Maybe there are reasons why it is. I suppose that General Motors-Holden's, like any other company, has always been rather hesitant about closing down plants that have been operating, thus throwing out of work those who are employed there. In 2 months time we should examine what has happened to those people who have been displaced. The company itself has offered jobs to a good many, particularly the more skilled ones, in other places. It is endeavouring to get into contact with the Government. It has put the Department of Labour and National Service on the job. If the 230 people who are now displaced are not substantially reabsorbed into the economy within 2 months I personally will be very surprised. 
The honourable member for Fremantle might have mentioned one or two other things. One is that the population and the work force of Western Australia have for some years been expanding at twice the Australian average rate. Although, like every other industrial State, Western Australia has had its vicissitudes, there has been a powerful, underlying, continuous story of expansion and of absorption of new people into the work force. The matter of public importance we are now discussing is, as several speakers subsequent to the honourable member for Fremantle have emphasised, in these terms: 'the continuing closure of industry with consequent aggravation of unemployment' throughout Australia. The evidence in support of this proposition is very much weaker. In fact it was weak in relation to one or two aspects of the case based on the decision by General Motors-Holden's. 
It was suggested that one of the reasons General Motors-Holden's is in its present position is that it owed a lot to social action taken on its behalf, including the extending of tariff protection to this company. As far as my memory goes, one thing that General Motors has never asked for is a tariff to protect its operations in Australia - far from it. In its early days it made it clear that it did not need protection and would not seek it. In fact tariffs were not applied to the motor car industry at the request of General Motors-Holden's but were applied to keep alive other sectors of the industry which otherwise would not have been able to withstand the overseas competition. Blame certainly cannot be laid at the door of General Motors. In a large industrial structure such as Australia has, hundreds of firms each year can go bankrupt and out of operation, but fortunately even more come into business, start operations and increase their employment. This is always happening. The Mosman Park closure is surely one of the most minor ones to bring up. Of course it is important to Western Australia and to the electorates of Fremantle and Perth. The honourable members for Fremantle and Perth  (Mr Berinson)  have drawn attention to this. But they have dragged out of perspective the general growth in the economy and the new growth that is always taking place. 
Honourable members on the Opposition side have suggested that unemployment is increasing and that economic conditions are becoming more depressed. This was particularly the theme of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  In fact the opposite is the case. It could have been said until some considerable time ago, for the better part of a year now, that the aim of the Budget was to combat the very serious problem of inflation, but surely any fairminded member must realise that for the better part of a year these policies have been swept under the carpet and that everything is being done now to increase employment, stimulate business and so forth. That the Government has been creating unemployment is not a charge that could fairly have been laid for some months now. In fact a number of other features could be pointed to, for instance the very big increase in the wages bill. One thing that does not seem to be recognised by honourable members opposite is the effect that tremendous and sudden increases in wages in so many industries have on employment in those industries. There is no doubt that in a good many cases sudden wage increases have led to much of the labour force pricing itself out of the market. This trend has been followed in Britain, quite clearly and vividly, until unemployment there has reached a very high level. It is now happening here. The theory which honourable members opposite continually put forward is: Increase wages and forget all about the costs, and if wage increases result in higher costs they can be eased by clapping on price control to force prices to stay where they are. Apart from the fatuity of it, this process has been tried and has put a good many people out of work. There are so many demands still operating that unfortunately and undoubtedly many more people will be put out of work in the near future. This process does play its part. 
Until we can get stability in wages, costs, prices and so on and a general spirit of greater contentment in the community about these matters we will continue to face very serious problems, and amongst these serious problems will be increasing unemployment for a good many industries and a good many trades and individuals quickly pricing themselves out of the market. This gives any government a difficult problem to handle, and no Western country has yet been able to handle it any more successfully than has Australia. But until we recognise these phenomena, and the general community recognises them, these things will happen. It is certainly not true at the moment to say that there is an increasing closure of industries and aggravation of unemployment. At the present moment more employment is opening up, and more firms are starting than are closing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order 1 The discussion is now concluded. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. Yesterday on the 7.45 a.m. news on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio network I picked up this statement: 'A Labor Federal government might have to support guerrilla tactics to safeguard its regional development plan. Under a Labor government, a national planning task force would assist regions to develop. It would have to act as a guerrilla force within the region if they met resistance from other States'. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service and concerns the latest unemployment figures. Has the Minister's Department made any estimate of the extent to which this increase in unemployment has been brought about by the difficulties of firms countering higher costs due both to labour disputes and to meeting excessive wage demands? Furthermore, has the Minister been able to keep any tally of the number of smaller firms throughout the country which have been obliged to close down for the same reasons? 
As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  pointed out, this Bank is concerned with 2 different branches of activity. One deals with the special funds which, put in another way, are the soft touch to our weaker brothers. We have subscribed quite generously in the past to this sort of aid. However, this measure deals not with the charitable aspects, valuable as they are, but with the Bank's ordinary loan operations. One of its most important roles is to act as a bank for this area to develop and encourage proper banking and investment practices and to equip and familiarise as many people from this area, official and unofficial, with the workings of banking and finance so that the processes of economic advancement may be speeded up. 
We come to this measure largely because of the very success of this institution. It has been successful and we should congratulate those concerned, particularly one of its great sponsors,  Mr Watanabe,  the present executive head. In 1971 the Bank had a sudden big success in raising money by loans on the world's markets. What it wants this money for and what our subscription is being paid for essentially is not so much to provide money for operations as to give it the credit and capacity to borrow funds on its own in the markets of the world. The Bank started quite assiduously to borrow money in 1969 and since the end of 1969 it has borrowed a total of $159. 8m. The rush which occurred in 1971 enabled it to borrow $121m out of that total of roughly $160m. It became obvious that the Bank was doing so much business and making so many loans that unless it could raise further funds it would gradually have to slow down and be unable to carry on in this way. This was raised to the Board of Governors in 1971, which took due notice and asked the Board of Directors to report on what measures should be taken. The Board of Directors has since presented its report to the Governors. It advised that as the Bank was operating its funds for investment would be exhausted by the end of 1973. We are one of the largest subscribers. This Bill will authorise us to subscribe a total of $127.5m. Of this sum only $25.5m is actually paid in. The purpose of the plan is to pledge Australia's credit because we give a promissory note to pay this sum if it is requested and needed. All that is paid in cash is $25.5m, 40 per cent in gold and 60 per cent in the domestic currency of the country concerned. In this way we add our share to the essential borrowing capacity in the markets of the world. 
The Bank so far has issued its bonds and has sold its securities in Austria, Belgium, Japan, Switzerland, the United States of America and 12 countries in the region. The fact that Australia does not appear in this list should also give us food for thought. Like the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, I would not regard it as appropriate to enter tonight into a discussion of our current international payments position, but various impractical suggestions have been made in relation to our credit position about borrowing exchange and various other moves rather than using our position to promote what we should be thinking about - an Australian international finance industry. This thought should be followed up and I ask the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),  who is at the table, to convey to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  that it ought to be followed up by opening the Australian markets to the bonds of the Asian Development Bank. These bonds have already been sold on a number of markets and Australia is a natural market in which the Bank should be able to operate. We should see day by day quoted on the Australian stock exchanges the bonds of the Asian Development Bank. I would like to see this development so that with governmental help the Bank would be enabled to raise funds in 
Australia on its own account in our money markets because this is the fashion in which fundamentally Australia can help to develop the region. Incidentally, Australia's influence in the institution would be greatly increased. 
Australia should be a big market in this area. It should be playing its part in development privately as well as through public institutions. This is the next step we should take. Quite obviously we are all agreed that we should subscribe. We should give the Asian Development Bank our support for its ordinary operations as well as its special operations and special funds. Our next step should be to open up our markets so that this worthwhile institution can sell its bonds here on its own business basis. 
The main burden of the attack on the Budget by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was that we have not set out  a  series of national objectives of the kind which he favours, which in fact involve, indirectly and quite directly in most cases, centralising in Canberra almost all authority for any matter with which public authorities and government in Australia are concerned. This is fundamentally  a  position which we reject and which has been rejected repeatedly by the Australian people over the years. However, I shall address my remarks to our international position and how we might best adapt ourselves to the new circumstances with which we are confronted. In recent currency crises our old landmarks have disappeared, but not many people seem to have realised this. For generations we have relied upon sterling, which until recently has formed the ultimate basis of discipline and policy both for Government finance and the Australian banking system. It has now proved to be a badly broken reed. 
Recently in many vital respects we have been ejected from the sterling area, and the present British Government has given notice that in future it will adjust its exchange rate according to the vagaries of the British domestic economy rather than to international considerations. Therefore, we are virtually out in the cold on our own. Our anchor has gone and we are marking time, virtually alone and independent. We have to evolve new yardsticks to guide our conduct. The value of Australian currency in future will depend upon how well or ill we manage our own affairs. Currently we are in a very strong balance of payments position, largely because of the very heavy recent capital inflow against which some people are suggesting the imposition of restrictions, although so far nothing precise has been put forward. Others, more sensibly, have suggested that advantage should be taken of this condition to remove the controls upon the export of Australian capital resources overseas. This control has applied continuously since 1939. The reason for it has long since disappeared and it should be abolished. It represents a far more realistic approach to the problem of our immediate surplus than any upward revaluation of our currency. But, however it might be considered intrinsically desirable, this raises other difficult problems. 
Looking at our international position from the broad point of view and relating it to future trends, Australia could and should be moving towards a position of key financial and industrial importance in the South East Asian area. Actually and potentially we are a large producer of commodities which the world wants and is likely to need in fast growing quantities. Our terms of trade, which have mainly turned against us in the post-war era, are being reversed as our productive capacity grows much greater. It is true that much of the adjustment in the rural sector has been delayed by troglodytic thinking on the part of many of the influential elements who have concentrated on telling their friends what they thought sounded pleasing and acceptable, thus encouraging them to bolster our dated patterns of production, rather than to seek out and develop new markets. 
One of the obstacles to Australia's adjusting readily to the world is the interval which takes place between what the perceptive see clearly and the acceptance of the underlying facts by the majority opinion. For years Australian policy was dogged by the belief, often propagated by influential people, that Australia will be struggling in the future to produce sufficient exports to pay interest on and repay the principle of overseas borrowing and capital imports. They refused to recognise basic changes in the economy which had come about and wanted to regard the whole process as a narrow accountancy matter in which they foresaw nothing but bankruptcy and ruin. It is only in very recent times that such limited reasoning has been shown up as irrelevant. Plentitude of foreign funds poses unaccustomed problems for these people who earlier foresaw only scarcity and doom. The Commonwealth Treasury, honourable members might be pleased to note, has long foreseen and appreciated the new developments coming upon us but in some respects it can also at times become immersed in its own inertia. The status quo, when long continued, produces its own influential defenders. One example of this was the continuation of restrictions upon imports involving United States dollar payments for some years after in fact the underlying dollar shortage had been effectively reversed. When conceptions have been translated into daily official administration, they become extremely difficult to change. 
Our broad prospect now is surely that of a flourishing dynamic economic power bound to grow increasingly important and influential in this sector of the world. Part of this picture should be the growth of a powerful and influential money and investment market in close touch with countries of South East Asia and the financial centres of the United States, Japan and Europe. Recent years have seen our market at home become much more sophisticated, diversified and enlarged by the establishment of many overseas merchant banks staffed by people well versed in overseas practices. 
It should be one of our objectives now to develop powerfully our own international finance industry. This kind of market, underpinned by the Australian economy, should greatly increase the power and influence of Australia. It should be the strong aim of government to encourage and stimulate this development, Such a market will not, of course, grow if an attempt to control and grandmother it is imposed by officialdom. Freedom of operation will be its essence. Loose ideas in the community about controlling and vetting transactions to achieve some purpose which the holders of these ideas vaguely have in mind and to which some political folk are altogether too apt to pay attention, would go far to stifle such a market at birth. The decentralisation- of judgment and action amongst large sectors of different operators is the only way in which a market can react quickly and flexibly to changing circumstances when decisions have to be taken quickly, as they do, by those most versed in the particular matter involved, unfettered by outside interference. 
The current hiatus in international monetary affairs should jolt all of us into thinking about fundementals and re-defining our aims for the future. The main lesson which we have learned from the dollar and sterling crises is that we should concentrate in future on our Australian currency. Many people in our midst are prone to verbosity on the subject of our independence, but apart from a brash defiance of others they never think out what independence actually entails outside words and xenophobia. In currency matters the issue has been forced upon us. We shall have to think of Australian currency and what it is necessary to do to keep it stable in terms of our own national, economic and financial interests. The early outward manifestation of this policy should be the progressive invoicing of all Australian trade in terms of Australian dollars. This change, of course, could not be effectively enforced against the rest of the world, but at least a start should be made. Other people would gradually become accustomed to it and many of our neighbours would welcome it. 
We have done very well in the world with our open-door trade and financial policy and have successfully become an important part of the world economy, enjoying its benefits and periodically suffering from its vicissitudes. We shall cope best with them if we approach future problems with, institutions shaped flexibly by free enterprise and unhampered by the distant control of a well meaning bureaucracy. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Attorney-General been drawn to the series of suspected murders, shootings, bombings and bashings in which members of the Victorian Painters and Dockers Union have been involved recently? Will the investigation of these crimes be pursued with the same zest as that now being devoted to the investigation of terrorists as such? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Have there yet been any successful prosecutions following the violence in the Sydney Trades Hall 3 or 4 weeks ago and, apart from those, have any prosecutions been begun or conducted, or has effort been made to hush the whole thing up in the hope that the public will forget it? To what extent do these crude and brutal louts and larrikins cow and dominate the union movement? Is it appropriate at this stage for the Australian people to make these law breakers our law makers and rulers? In the last 2 years, has the relative number of offices held by, and the strength of, the Communist Party within the trade union movement greatly increased and, with that, has the application of bullying and* physical violence increased? Have the trade union leaders paid any more than lip service to decrying violence? Have they taken any effective action or have they adopted the general, traditional attitude of the man playing the piano on the ground floor of the brothel and affecting neither to know nor care what goes on upstairs? 
The statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  sets out what can only be an interim position in Australia in tackling these problems in the period immediately ahead. It recognises in other directions the changed foreign exchange circumstances which have come upon us and deals with them in a number of different ways which adjust to current circumstances. In the first place, restrictions are placed on short term borrowing overseas for amounts over and above $100,000. This would seem in itself to be a sensible move, but I hope it will be accompanied by a willingness on behalf of our authorities to equate our short term interest rates in Australia with those prevailing abroad because clearly overseas firms will be able to continue to borrow while those here will not. To place them all on an equal footing from an economic point of view and in their costs and prices, this move should accompany the short term restrictions. 
The guidelines are eliminated and this seems sensible in itself. For a long time we have applied the guidelines in a way aimed at obliging companies in Australia, particularly those of recent origin in Australia, to bring in resources from overseas from their parent companies and other borrowing sources, and to use them rather than to rely upon the resources of our own banking system. So successful has this policy been that now, if anything, we tend to have a flood of overseas investment and clearly there is no necessity to continue a control like this to force a result which is already over manifest. 
As to portfolio investment, this control was first imposed at the beginning of World War II. After such a tremendous length of time Australian citizens are now free to invest their money at will, wherever they so choose. The change perhaps could have been accompanied by one or two measures but it is certainly a move in the right direction. I hope that the Government and the authorities will go on to do one or two more things in the same direction, because they are in fact using our surplus foreign exchange position in current circumstances. One thing which could well be done is to have regard to neighbouring governments in our area - particularly those of Fiji and Singapore - which for their own purposes have a desire to borrow money and to raise funds in Australia. Clearly in our current position we could allow them to do so. We are restricting them currently with our overseas investment portfolio control, but surely the time has come when these restrictions, which are of only marginal importance, can be eased to help our neighbours in the Pacific. I would like to see that done and I would also like to see removed from the system any other restrictions of a similar character. 
We have benefited from the Prime Minister's statement because the day before yesterday the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  inscribed in Hansard for the full information of honourable members a rather full policy statement by the Labor Party. In part this brings out the contrast between the Government's position on these matters and that of the Labor Party. It should not be glossed over but I think should be studied, not only by members of the House but also by those outside because  m  some ways over a period of time it has been difficult to establish precisely what was the Labor Party policy on a number of these points. One had to deduce it from odd scraps of speeches made over a period. But at page 1922 of last Tuesday's Hansard the position is set out very clearly. 
The Government statement suggests - in regard to foreign investment, which is the other angle with which it deals - that for the time being it will establish certain controls over takeovers and foreign investments. It will set up a body, but the criteria which will be applied are not evident. In such exercises the criteria to be applied are of the essence of the whole matter. It is only be watching this situation over a time and by seeing a number of cases dealt with that it will be possible to form a judgment on how the situation will be controlled. For the time being there is something to be said for a slowing down or freezing of this process of takeovers and foreign investment, for the simple reason that the Austraiian exchange rate is out of gear with the rest of the world. With our undervalued currency the takeover of Australian secutities is made a cheap business for those overseas. If an overseas investor were looking for an investment he could, in the undervalued situation of our currency, buy up our assets cheaply. 
For other reasons I do not think a readjustment of our currency - I have explained this before - would be right at this time. Other factors of a very important character are involved, one of which, of course, basically is the current state of the employment market. In these sorts of conditions an appreciation of the exchange rate would be a foolish course to take. Historically throughout the world an appreciation of currency has always been a very tricky operation which very few countries have accomplished with success and without considerable dislocation of their affairs in some directions. 
The Labor Party policy for dealing with these things is interesting in itself. First of all, it is proposed to establish a secretariat, the functions of which shall be to identify, register and examine all foreign investment, both current and future, in Australia and report to the Government accordingly. All nominees will be required to disclose the identity of any foreign shareholders. Decisions on foreign investment shall rest with the national Government. 
This is the Labor Party's policy. Decisions on foreign investment are to rest with the national Government. Where the Government, having been advised by the secretariat, determines, out of its wisdom or otherwise, that a proposed importation of capital is considered to be of no benefit, or purely speculative or in any sense contrary to Australia's interests - whatever that may mean and however it may be interpreted - it will direct the Reserve Bank to withhold authority for that currency transaction and take other appropriate action. Similarly, authority for any takeover or merger may be withheld if it is clearly contrary to the national interest. In respect of existing foreign investments, the Government will act as necessary to retain and regain maximum Australian ownership and control of industries and resources. This is a major statement of policy. National resources presumably will be used in these circumstances to take companies over and keep them Australian owned. Not only is it desired to keep the ownership in Australia, but also, I presume, to make many of the companies subject to national ownership by the Government. There are various other factors, too, all of which will depend on the initiative and arbitrary decision of a board set up by and reporting to the Government as to whether a particular business transaction will take place. 
There is one particularly interesting change in the overall policy of the Labor Party. Most of the time while I have been in the House - now quite a long while - Labor policy has been dead set against foreign borrowing. It is interesting that now Labor proposes to set up either as part of the Australian Industry Development Corporation or as a separate entity a national development corporation which among other things will have the following as one of its functions: To supplement the limits of the Australian capital market by offering, where necessary, national development bonds for overseas subscription. Of course, this is not conceptually a bad idea by any means; but it is one that is very contrary to past Labor policy. Whether or not there is sufficient capital in Australia, Labor will endeavour, by borrowing overseas with national bonds, to acquire the necessary remaining resources. 
The verbiage used in Labor's policy is interesting in itself, because it is stated that this authority will supplement the limits of the Australian capital market by offering, where necessary, such national development bonds for overseas subscription. I would say far from 'offering where necessary' they will have to be flogged mighty hard. It would be a fascinating test - it will not take place, of course - to see whether this method of raising funds proposed by the Labor Party would work, as compared with allowing private individuals to make their own arrangements, to bring capital here and to invest it. Labor would calculate some apparently global total by which Australian resources were insufficient and it would endeavour to raise the funds. In other words, it would do it all through the raising of Government bonds overseas. 
The Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  has just completed a statement - not a very short statement - on national development. Labor's approach to this subject is to establish a Commonwealth body to examine and approve exports of natural resources where it is in the national interest that they be exported. 
1 imagine that in the coming weeks there will be a few other opportunities when I will find the statement of Labor's policy a very handy document to propagate, and no doubt the honourable member will also because it embodies his beliefs. Labor policy will be to establish a Commonwealth body whose function will be to maximise prices for the exports of these resources. Where necessary, the renegotiation of existing contracts will be required to ensure adequate prices and royalties. How a Labor government will fix an adequate price on royalties I do not know. 
A further function of this body will be to ensure the maximum treatment, beneficiation and fabrication in Australia of Australian resources. It is interesting to speculate on what the cost of processing these resources will be, but apparently the cost is of lesser consideration. At least it throws all the existing mining arrangements into the melting pot. All these prices will have to be renegotiated. As far as possible a very large portion of theses resources are apparently to be fabricated and dealt with inside Australia. The cost is not contemplated; in fact, it is ignored completely. It is important that we think about this problem which is difficult to decide now for basic reasons- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
A very extraordinary doctrine has been propounded in the course of this debate in the last hour or two. It is one which would somehow deny to the Executive the main right to make foreign policy and conclude agreements with overseas countries. The first person to propound this doctrine was the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  and he was followed in that view very much by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  Both of these honourable members seem to have an extraordinary idea of what is involved in foreign policy procedure and in government procedures generally. They think that somehow a government in power can mix up actions it has to take for governmental purposes with the proceedings of some committee or other. 
Like the honourable member for Wills, I am a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. Anyone who takes any interest in foreign affairs knows perfectly well that for some time there has been one outstanding difficult question between Australia and Indonesia. Whereas our relations are very friendly, very intimate and full of trust and we have had meetings, the one thing on which we have not been able to agree hitherto has been the demarcation of the sea boundaries. It was known also some time ago that a high powered collection of officials was going to Djakarta to talk at length about ali the technical and legal questions in relation to this matter and would be in Djakarta for some time. In fact, these talks have been going on for a long time. One thing I did not know was that they had managed to conclude an agreement - at which we must be very delighted - and that on his way back from New York the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  instead of coming directly to Australia diverted to Djakarta probably at some considerable physical distress to himself. Whilst there he signed this agreement and participated in the finalities of this agreement. We should all be extremely pleased with this. We have heard from his own lips what it was all about. 
What I suggest is that we do not try to intrude the rights of the Parliament, which are very important, into situations where it would be quite silly and inappropriate to do so. Let us take the contributions which might have been made by the honourable member for Wills and Corio had they known these things, had anyone asked them, and had they had full confidence. No doubt the honourable member for Wilis would have injected a degree of verbosity into the debate. I do not know what the honourable member for Corio would have injected into the debate. He talks about his rights as a member of Parliament. What he would have been able to inject into the debate on this matter has not been made apparent to me from what he has said in this House on foreign affairs. It is misleading for honourable members, to confuse the rights of members of the Parliament and the rights of the Parliament with proper executive procedures which are absolutely essential. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  introduced what seemed to me to be an extremely sour note into the motives for giving aid. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  has suggested that behind all this foreign aid there has been some overall wicked motive and that people have given this aid for political motives. There is, of course, a measure of truth in that; but let me refer to the giving of Marshall aid programme which was the first big world aid programme. It is true that the United States Government was at the time interested in holding off the communist world; but it was particularly interested for obvious, sensible reasons and which could have been and were generous as well. In other words, it decided it would provide the wherewithal for the recovery of the rest of the world. 
As one who lived through some of the subventions which went through Congress and who heard the debates which took place there I can assure the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory that there was mixed up with this an extraordinary degree of generosity on the part of the American people who were very directly conscious of the amount of direct taxation which they had to pay to finance these aid programmes. The aid was given with the kind of spirit which we now apply to our ordinary charitable operations. But aid, like everything else in human affairs, is a mixture but to write it off as a sour thing which nobody does anything about unless he has the worst motives is by no means just to the generosity of our own people, the Government and I think a very large proportion of members of the Opposition. 
We should at least get into this the right spirit of generosity coupled with selfinterest. We are interested in the welfare of the countries of South East Asia and our neighbours. We have an intense self-interest in their success. Some of us are particularly interested in trade, know-how, or some other particular aspect; but overwhelmingly we do support these things not only because we want to uplift the standards of these people and to play our part in improving their lot in life but also because we believe this is very much in our interest as well as in their interest in helping to promote a peaceful foundation for this part of the world. 
The honourable member for St George made some rather bitter, cynical remarks about the part we have been playing in Malaysia and Singapore. I know that this has become a matter of controversy but let us remember that the remarks made by the leaders of these countries and by our visitors to them are susceptible not to the normal human process of conversation but also, one might say, to treatment by the mass media. If some sensation can be scraped up from a few words uttered by someone this is made a subject of considerable agitation and misrepresentation and does in itself lead to a considerable degree of confusion and misunderstanding from time to time between the peoples of the 2 countries concerned. The people in 
Malaysia and Singapore on a personal basis and on a basis of direct understanding are extraordinarily friendly, intimate and the best relations exist with them. But if we have regard to some of the remarks which are reported in the Press, or even more widely, there is always some other interpretation placed on them. 
The latest one concerns the question of Malaysia's neutrality. Tun Abdul Razak has been propounding the idea that this should be a large neutral zone guaranteed by the outside world. But this is nothing new. He has been saying this for a long time. All his neighbours know this and we know it. We know the difficulties involved in achieving it. For our part it is obviously something that we would like to promote. It is not in our interests that the whole of this area should become the cockpit of super-power politics. I use the term 'superpower' because the Japanese, the Chinese and the Americans are all operative in this area, as is the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics. This is obviously one of the points at which the super-powers meet. As for most of the rest of the world their interests are split. It would be in our interests to keep everybody out. Our policy on Malaysia and Singapore, particularly in the Five-Power pact, has been dedicated to a very similar end. None of the people in that area seriously think that any of the five powers are a menace or are threatening their future. What we are doing is to assist this process of making sure that this area is neutral and that other countries which interfere in any way will find in this area a hard core resistance which will assist in what Malaysia wants to do, as well as the rest of the world. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Mi Corbett) - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
The reference made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was to figures which I subsequently incorporated in Hansard. In fact they were figures prepared for me on 30th November last by the Commonwealth Parliamentary. Library Legislative Research Service. They were prepared from statistics published, in the Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure for the June quarter of 1971', and in 'Australian National Accounts National Income and Expenditure 1969-70*. They came from figures which were published in the first place by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. Presumably, as with the other publications, they were not produced for any particular purpose. They were produced as honestly as could possibly be done and for the purpose for which they were produced. The figures were taken from those publications. 
What the figures show, in contrast to what was quoted by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, is that the percentage of gross national product factor cost which went to wages, salaries and supplements in 1949-50 - which roughly was the first year to which the honourable member referred, or the year after - was 51 per cent. Over the years it has varied slightly. For some years it has gone steadily upwards. Of course, one always can take out a particular year in order to throw out the proper impression. The 51 per cent in 1949-50 dropped immediately afterwards to 47 per cent. That was the last time it was below that figure. It climbed from 47 per cent to 55 per cent in 1953-54. The percentage slowly changed until in 1958-59 it was 55.8 per cent. By 1963-64 it had gone down slightly to 54.9 per cent. It started to climb again at that point and has gone up ever since. In 1970-71 the percentage had risen to 60.8 per cent. 
As far as one can judge the document the honourable member referred to was not prepared for anything except quite objective, academic, professional and high class standards, the standards used by people who are extremely experienced in compiling statistics. The honourable member for Hindmarsh quoted the work of some academic. I presume that he had permission to quote it. The standard adopted normally by academics in Australia for academic research practice is that the information is to be provided to the researcher on the condition that it will not be made public in any way without the permission of those giving the information. I presume that the honourable member for Hindmarsh has the permission of the author of this paper to quote the research he carried out. But, of course, if you start quoting various things from various authorities it depends on how authoritative and thorough they are, and good their work is. Personally I have very high regard for the statistical and other officers whom we have in our research staff in the Library and believe they would be perfectly honest and objective in the work they produced. I originally wanted these figures for some other purpose. The initial work was done by the Commonwealth Statistician and if we cannot depend on the honesty and integrity of the Commonwealth Statistician our whole body of statistics in Australia would be unreliable. Of course that is not their reputation. We enjoy a very high world reputation for our official statistical services. 
I would like to make clear where I got this table because the honourable member for Hindmarsh hinted that it probably had been made up or given to me by some public servant who had a particular case to prove. As a matter of fact, public servants played no part in it whatever; nor did any Minister. It is purely the work of the objective research service that we have at our disposal. Referring more widely to the points he introduced, I personally disagree with the decision made some while ago by the Commonwealth Statistician to operate Independently and to start putting out seasonal estimates of employment. Whilst I was Minister for Labour and National Service, and as far as I could influence the situation, 1 said that these should not be put out because the one thing that can be relied on is the actual figures which are collected, compiled, processed and put out giving the number of people who are actually unemployed. When you start playing with seasonal adjustments you have to remember what they mean. The people who use these properly and know the limitations can gain something from these adjustments, but these so-called seasonal adjustments are only adjustments based on past experience by statisticians. They can be extremely misleading because history shows that every year is different from the rest and employment is affected by different factors. I believe that when you look at unemployment figures the only ones that you can look at reliably are the number of actual unemployed and not the seasonally adjusted number which statisticians arrive at with a greater or lesser degree of inaccuracy. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Navy. Was the large fullscale advertisement extolling the virtues of the Dutch DDG and also the design capacity of the shipbuilding consortia interested in building it which appeared in a defence supplement to the 'Financial Review' paid for by the Dutch consortia involved or by some agency of the Dutch Government? 
I should like firstly to refer to a recent visit by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  to Holland to study what is a very proper subject; that is, alternatives to the DDL destroyer with a view to finding some way of getting down to very much lower costs than those involved. I suggest to the honourable gentleman that he might have found it more profitable to have looked in my electorate at the Canadian solution to the types of problems which now face all navies. One of Australia's greatest problems is in anti-submarine warfare. With the DDLs, which are in large part designed to meet this problem, there are 2 grave difficulties which have necessitated the construction of a very large ship instead of the much smaller vessel which was at first envisaged by the Royal Australian Navy. One problem is the range and the difficulty of keeping a small ship at sea for a long time. The other main aspect for consideration is the anti-submarine air factor. 
The way in which the Canadians tackled the problem of anti-submarine warfare is now on exhibition in a small way in Sydney Harbour. The ship involved is the Provider. It will participate over the weekend with other ships in various anti submarine maneouvres. The 'Provider' was built in 1963 at a cost of $15,700,000. We can assume that the cost to construct it now would be at least double that amount or even higher. It is worth looking at the Canadian solution because the Canadian Navy has a much deeper experience in antisubmarine warfare than has Australia. At the end of the World War II the Canadian anti-submarine forces operating in the Atlantic were very large; in fact they were almost as big as those of Great Britain. As I said, Canada has faced up to the problem of the range of anti-submarine activity and of keeping forces at sea for a long time under difficult conditions. The 'Provider' is capable of increasing the range of much smaller ships to a large degree. She has accompanying her on this journey the 'Qu'annelle" and 'Gatineau' which are based on the old type 12 British anti-submarine frigate which appear in Australia almost identically in our R class vessels. This is particularly relevant to us because the construction of DDLs with a full range and full anti-submarine capacity in the one ship means that the costs are so high that we really do have to look for an alternative. 
Having decided to build the first 3 destroyers, I imagine that the Navy envisages measures to refit our own R class vessels, which are now at about the half life stage, to give them the range and the antisubmarine capacity necessary to enable them to be very effective ships and almost equivalent to DDLs for most purposes and at a very much lower cost. If I may touch upon what the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  said, this is highly relevant to the constructing of a fast supply ship which I understood was to have been built at the Cockatoo dockyard. But this becomes very important in the total context because in fact we are running currently along both lines of experiment with the DDLs, or large ships, which would be able to keep at sea for a long time and the lighter and smaller destroyers - these would be our older destroyers - whose range and effectiveness can be effectively increased only by the construction of a fast supply ship along the lines of the Canadian ship the 'Provider'. The Canadian ship has immense tanks. It carries a colossal amount of fuel. A ship of this type can about treble the range of 
R class destroyers. Besides that, the Canadian ship has a very considerable helicopter capacity - a capacity to assist, in conjunction with frigates, in very effective anti-submarine warfare. 
This ship has 3 helicopters. Presumably our future plans also include considerable helicopter carrying capacity which, used in conjunction with small frigates, will give us a very effective anti-submarine force. In addition to carrying fuel and helicopters, supply ships of this type also have considerable capacity for carrying supplies, providing hospital facilities as well as carrying ammunition and all the supplies needed to keep a fleet at sea. These are very keen and interesting vessels to study. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! 
The Labor Party is making a magnificient contribution in having one man in the chamber. 
I can see two just under my nose. I do not look behind me. But it is necessary, I suggest, that we persevere with the other line of meeting future requirements. We should be building now a fast supply ship which, in conjunction with the older type frigates and destroyers, will greatly enhance the capacity of those ships. Maybe if this proves to be a promising line of development this will enable us to make very much more satisfactory overall arrangements for the use of our resources than could be achieved by repeating further DDL type vessels, lt is too early to say what the outcome will be, because this matter is still at the experimental stage, but it is a very necessary experiment to run. I hope that there will not be any considerable delay in reaching a decision. 1 join with the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  in what he said about the employment aspects of the shipbuilding industry, using our shipbuilding capacity and keeping it intact. That was one of the main reasons for designing the DDLs here and developing our electronic industries. I hope that somehow we will manage to proceed without delay. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Did the Indian Government a short while ago seize the assets of Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd in India and pay unilaterally very inadequate compensation amounting really to confiscation? Has this action been further compounded by even these meagre, inadequate compensatory proceeds being denied exchange control permission for repatriation to Australia? Has the Minister lodged a strong complaint with the Indian authorities about this treatment of Australian nationals? Will he consider diverting some of the financial assistance now being afforded to the Indian authorities to compensate Australian nationals for the uncivilised conduct of the Indian Government? 
 I rise to oppose the amendments proposed by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  The honourable member moved the amendments in toto and therefore I oppose them in toto. There is a certain logic moving them together, because most of them directly and indirectly stem from the amendment moved by the honourable member during the second reading stage of the Bill. The entire difference of approach between the Opposition and the Government - and this has been confirmed by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  - is this; What the Opposition envisages is a perfect theoretical system. It assumes that what someone has written in a book can be conceived ideally and in abstract and that by starting completely on a blank page we can write in precisely what we think would be the complete solution to the problem that is faced. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  emphasised that this really is a measure to meet some practical problem that has already arisen - the problem of coping with the number of working mothers whose children have to be cared for while they are at work. The Bill is not designed to entice more mothers into the work force or to discourage them. It is designed to cope with what is a direct practical problem. 
The honourable member for Barton said that the Bill is restricted to the children of working mothers. In fact, it is not so restricted at all, and alternative methods of child care are not excluded. The Bill provides for moneys to be made available for research into possible alternative methods and for support for the development of alternatives. But the Bill very wisely allows us to build on what already exists. It is all very well to have some theoretically perfect system in our minds, such as presumably the honourable member for Barton has in his mind, and then to proceed on this basis to set up a child care standards committee. As the honourable member for Fremantle outlined, these would be staffed purely by qualified people. We would go around - I doubt whether we could find them - and collect the people with Ph.Ds who have gone through academic institutions, such as those beloved by the honourable member for Barton, passed examinations and got some qualifications. They are the people who would determine the standards and virtually force their policy, by means of their amendments, on the Minister. I do not believe that these people exist. There are a good many in the community who have done a good deal of practical work in this field and some of them have qualifications of some academic character. But these people would be very difficult to find and if the honourable member for Fremantle had the immediate practical task of staffing these committees he would not be so emphatic in requiring these qualifications. 
What this Bill does is pick up what is being done and, unlike what the honourable member for Barton suggested, this is not confined to voluntary bodies. Naturally it makes special provision for those bodies because they are the people, de facto, who know about the problems, who live with the people to be assisted, who work with them and they will no doubt continue to do so. The Bill also involves local authorities and trusts and provides for the study of alternative methods of doing things. It is based on the arrangements which already exist and helps those already engaged in this field. Far from starting straight away with a clean sheet and a wonderful theoretical system which embraces everybody and everything, it will be difficult to move along. It will be difficult to get going in the time the Minister outlined. For instance, there is the provision of up to  $5m  in this financial year. Any organisation starting now and effectively spending in proper ways $5m by the end of this financial year will be working at an incredible rate. 
I hope that the Department will be able to appoint these people quickly. We have already learned that it has advertised the positions. The people who will fill these positions are largely those we will depend on for getting the scheme going and I hope that the Department and those who will be appointing these people will not have to wait the normal dilatory time taken by the Public Service Board to make effective appointments because if this scheme is to get under way it has to be done quickly. Basically I oppose this large number of amendments because they stem mainly from part (a) of the amendment already moved. The honourable member for Fremantle and the honourable member for Barton both expressed some disapproval of the idea that this scheme should be under the competence of the Department of Labour and National Service, although looking after the children of working mothers is not the scheme's only purpose. However, this is what gives rise to it. As 1 well know, in that Department there is a body of knowhow which has developed. A lot of the initial research work was done by this Department and taken a considerable distance. 
Undoubtedly what is provided under this Bill is a social service, or could be readily defined as such, in which case the power of the Commonwealth is undoubted. The honourable member for Fremantle and the honourable member for Barton propose that it should be under the Department of Education and Science but I would have thought that from a constitutional point of view this would have been a far more dubious ground on which to rest. Apart from that what is proposed seems to me to be a job which is being undertaken to a considerable degree now but which needs research by and suggestions from people who are presently involved rather than the appointment of a purely academic body to control it. I am rather appalled by the idea that some universal department of education should be established forever after to have vague control over every child of 3, or whatever the minimum age should be, and be their mentors rather than the control being exercised by the Department of Labour and National Service which has practical experience of the dreadful problems faced by mothers. This is the place to put the control and for these reasons I oppose the amendment. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior and concerns the reception given by the Australian Capital 
Territory Advisory Council to the local government representatives visiting Canberra for their current conference. Was the cost of this reception, which some have described as very lavish, borne by the Australian Capital Territory councillors, the ratepayers of Canberra or the taxpayers of Australia? Has he been informed that this occasion was used for a very blatant attack made in the very worst of taste on the Federal Government by the  Chairman  of the Australian Capital Territory Council? Was the Minister also informed that the conference itself was subsequently addressed and that everything that delegates could be promised was promised to the delegates without regard to the cost or the practical difficulties involved by the Leader of the Opposition who, during his discussion, displayed - 

 - Mr Speaker, firstly I congratulate you on attaining your high office. You are the second of my immediate electoral neighbours to gravitate to your office, and I am sure you will have a very successful term. I trust that you will administer the office in a way in which we all hope and expect you to administer it. I would like to traverse some of the ground which has been gone over by the Government since 2nd December  1972. In this time we. have taken tremendous strides away from the Western world, from our common, interests and from all the ties and associations which have been built up over a series of generations. 
During this time we have taken a conscious, fast step towards the communist world. lt was said that it was. time for a change, and Australia certainly got one. The first thing which occurred was the rushing, with inde-cent haste, into the arms of the People's Republic of China. Negotiations to secure this result had been commenced some time before. They had dragged on and they were taken over in a manner which provided a great gesture, drama and headlines. It was a series of examples of the very worst way- in which, foreign affairs ought to be conducted. It is notable that in the case of most of the diplomatic relations that have been established with the People's Republic of China the negotiations have been slow and carefully considered and have dragged out over some considerable time; a very close bargaining process has accompanied them. But in this case Australia seems to have gone in ready to. pay any price in order that a quick result should be achieved and some political splash made. If one conducts diplomatic negotiations on this basis, giving everything away to those with whom one is having discussions, one can of course receive very swift and spectacular success. We still do not know the details. In answer to a question, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that all, or a great part, of the details had been published and that there was not much else. But in fact we have not been able to read the documents. If open government were to prevail in full we would be treated to the diaries of the Australian Ambassador in Paris who conducted the negotiations. 
The details are said to be available in China, but the only real guidance one can get is from broadcasts from Peking and from people who are Chinese experts. We cannot obtain the details directly from the basic source. These negotiations, so hastily concluded, have of course aroused certain misgivings and suspicions amongst our neighbours. 
Very understandably, particularly amongst our neighbours and associates in the five-power pact. In his Speech the Governor-General said: 
My Government will honour the terms of the Five Power Arrangements, but looks forward to the achievement of a neutral zone in South East Asia ultimately involving the phasing out of present military arrangements. . . . 
Of course, anyone can say this. Any military arrangement has a limited life before it gradually peters out. Every few years, international circumstances change. The obligations which we assume under the five-power pact are, of course, rather loose. In essence, the pact depends on the moral conduct and good faith of the parties who participated in forming it. But, naturally, the people in this area have their suspicions a little aroused by our new friendship and desire to conclude arrangements with the communists. This applies particularly to our close friends. 
I congratulate the Prime Minister on paying an early visit to Indonesia. Indonesia is run overwhelmingly by General Suharto and the very keen, able and, in many ways, spectacular people he has around him, many of whom we all know and in whose actions we have faith. But we must remember that not many years ago that group of people almost had their throats cut overnight in a communist uprising. If their vigilance slipped, that might well occur again. They are well aware of this. So, when they are approached with ideas of new pacts and other new arrangements, they naturally view with suspicion a power which is showing so much disposition to conclude agreements and make arrangements with the communist world. 
It is no good just saying 'the communist world' because there are many ways in which countries deal with the communist world. However, there are certain things which must always be remembered and which are fundamental about communists and the communist world wherever they are. Firstly, personal liberty and individual rights disappear. Throughout communist countries the people are ruled by a reign of terror. This kind of thing is as alien to the majority of Australians as one could possibly conceive. Yet these are the people with whom we now are becoming increasingly familiar and with whom we are making all kinds of arrangements. If we are pursuing this line we must accept that our very close ties with the rest of the world, including our old allies, are weakened. This is particularly so when 3 senior Ministers of the Government insult the American Head of State in the grossest and most crude terms. This will leave a scar which will not easily be forgotten. 
In visiting Indonesia, for which I congratulate the Prime Minister, it seemed to me that his approach was not really the appropriate one. The Prime Minister aspires to the closest possible relations with Indonesia and I am sure that his feelings are shared by honourable members on both sides of the House. He aims to achieve friendship and co-operation, virtually continuing what has gone on for very many years in an intimate and effective way. But if we are really to win people's trust and live with them over a long term of years, we should not rush into their Foreign Minister and Head of State with a wonderful new scheme containing new constitutions, new arrangements and new features which all look lovely but which are hastily thrown together and which appeal to a limited number of people who are not really very deeply committed and who do not really know, in many respects, the issues which are involved, and expect them to sign on the dotted line in a great hurry. That invites rebuff. As a matter of fact, the Indonesians, who know us well, were very polite about this. 
If we are to become friends with our neighbours and pursue close relations with them we should ask: 'What do they think?' Our immediate neighbours have erected and done a great deal towards bringing to fruition the new organisation known as the Association of South East Asian Nations. ASEAN is designed by these countries to meet their own requirements and express their own aspirations which, in some cases, are complex and not easy to reconcile. But they like it. It would be far more preferable if the Prime Minister approached Indonesia and said: What can we do? Is there anything we can do to help this organisation or to underpin it and help you and the other countries make it a success?' 
In many respects, Australia is doing a great deal in the region. This process has gone on over a long time and, incidentally, has been promoted by a good many members from both sides of this House, a number of whom have visited Indonesia. Our relationship with that country is broad and intimate and exists on a basis of personal trust. This is no new thing. If the Government is to bring relations with our near neighbours, including Indonesia, to a successful conclusion, it must be a little more skilful and humble and less inclined to splash around with headlines, drama and great gestures appealing to the electorates in various countries. It should get down to a solid, friendly, day to day, hardworking basis. This, of course, includes our relations within the five-power pact. The trouble is that, although the Government, through the Governor-General's Speech puts out as its message - I will repeat this - the fact that is will honour the terms of the Five Power Arrangements, one wonders quite what that means in the Government's view. In fact, the Fire Power Arrangements are very loose. They can be interpreted in many ways and taken very much on goodwill but the words used by the Prime Minister is relation to security and other matters must throw considerable doubt upon our long-term good faith. Even worse than that, the Australian Government unfortunately is not really in a position to commit Australia. 
The Government - the Cabinet - has to be subject to what were called the faceless men. They are now not quite faceless; a few of them are known. However this outside body, not elected by the Australian people, does in fact have the final say as to what Australia can do. To determine whether Australia can fulfil its commitments to our allies, to follow up and support our fundamental security interests, one has to look, in these circumstances, to the machinations of the Labor Party Conference. If it says no, the Australian Government similarly is forced to say no. Some of these things do arouse considerable misgivings amongst a good many of us, particularly in view of the Peoples Republic of China negotiations with the recognition immediately of Eastern Germany and even more so just recently with that of North Vietnam. The North Vietnamese have sent representatives to Australia and they have been welcomed by a considerable number of trade unionists who have fallen on their necks as if they were brothers of the visiting North Vietnamese and have virtually kissed their hands which are still dripping with Australian blood. 
This is not a situation which appeals to the Liberal Party and I feel sure that it does not appeal to a large proportion of the Australian nation. If we are to have successful foreign affairs, particularly with our neighbours, we have to get straight what our commitments are and follow them. Whatever is the government of the day it must follow the commitments made by its predecessor so that the people in the rest of the world can be brought slowly and painfully to trust once more Australia's word and Australian support in the event of trouble. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hansen)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was any undertaking given to the Government of the People's Republic of China that Australia would withdraw its armed forces from the Malaysian area during the discussions which culminated in diplomatic recognition. 
What demands were made by, the Government of the People's Republic of China upon the Australian Government as a condition for the establishment of diplomatic relations to. which the Australian Government acceded. 
Were any demands refused by the Australian Government. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour. Has the Government decided to intervene in the national wage case to support the request of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that the minimum wage be made S65 a week? Has the Minister's Department estimated that this would add over S200m to the national wages bill? ls the object of this exercise to drive up prices and increase the pace of the increased cost of living with a view to making justification for seeking further constitutional powers to control the economy with the idea that then the economy will be put in  &gt;a  economic straitjacket? 
I do not propose to follow in detail some of the arguments just advanced by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  because I regard this subject as sufficiently important in itself. I think it stands by itself without attracting arguments about the world foreign exchange position and many other things which one might easily draw in. What this Bill does, as previous speakers have announced, is to seek to expand the contingent liability authority of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation from $500m to $750m. As noted also, at first when authority was given in 1956 it was for a total contingent liability of $50m, and it has expanded stage by stage over the years until the last occasion when we dealt with it. That was to increase it to $500m in May 1971. At that time, the then Minister, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who has just spoken in this debate, indicated that this was expected to be sufficient authority for the Corporation to carry on for the next 2 years. From the Corporation's report issued at the end of 1972 it is already obvious that the ceiling needed to be raised. It has for some time been bumping this ceiling. At the end of 1972 the maximum contingent liability on unexpired risks was $375m and the similar contingent liability on business which was insured at the risk of the Government itself was $258m. This made a high total and it was quite obvious that the ceiling needed to be expanded. We are now making that ceiling $750m. 
I agree with the Government's intention in this regard but in a slightly different way from one of my colleagues who spoke earlier in the debate. I believe that this is a very important increase in contingent liability. It involves an increase of $250m contingently. This is a large sum which this House should watch carefully. If in fact it is necessary later to raise the ceiling still further to above $750m, it is an important matter of which this House should take full cognisance. The report issued at the end of 1972 makes clear that there are 2 ways in which the business of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation has expanded very considerably in recent months. One is that it has entered the field of buyers' credit. This is a new departure from an earlier experience and a very profitable and hopeful one which, so far, has proved a great success. The other expansion is of business which has been insured at the risk of the Government. This includes things which the Government felt from a national point of view should be insured but which the Corporation itself, if left to its own business judgment, would not have accepted as an ordinary commercial risk but has been induced to go further by a government guarantee. So, the Corporation has expanded its business considerably. 
But this process in itself contains one or two matters at which we should look. We might note that, towards the end of 1972, this was becoming a significant institution. For instance, the Corporation now insures 10 per cent of Australia's export trade. That is a large volume of trade. Last year 87,200 individual shipments to 154 different markets were dependent on the operations of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. The report also notes that, although we can still sell a large proportion of our primary products and minerals for cash, the credit and the insurance provided by the Corporation have made a big difference in the overseas sale of our manufactures, which is an important and expanding part of our exports. In this regard the report also notes that this is a highly competitive sphere of business in which the credit and terms that go with manufactured goods are highly competitive with those of other countries and in this field export insurance plays a vital part in whether Australia secures an order or fails to do so. 
The fact that we cannot sell anything like all our exports, including even our mineral exports, for cash is indicated in the Corporation's report which shows a bigger variety of spread of different commodities. For instance, the Corporation has insured heavily exports of nickel and aluminium - a total of $137m out of a total of $622m - as well as a large number of miscellaneous items which include wheat, which was insured up to $81m and a series of other products such as meat, earth moving equipment, dairy produce, processed foodstuffs and a wide variety of mixtures of manufactured exports, processed exports and raw materials. 
There is a growing practice for certain countries to make bulk purchases of primary products through central government buying agencies. To help cater for this type of trade on acceptable credit terms, the Corporation has devised a technique of providing a prior commitment to issue, on agreed terms and conditions, its insurance policies to exporters and its related unconditional guarantee to the Australian bank providing the finance. Such an agreement for the purchase of up to $A10 million of Australian primary products by Chile is already in operation. These arrangements have the merit of flexibility in meeting the needs of particular countries as well as enabling finance to be made available. Bilateral agreements of this kind appear to provide considerable scope for trade promotion. 
A later paragraph in the same report indicates some of the dangers involved and why it is quite sound for the Minister not to go beyond this big step of raising the ceiling available to the Corporation to $750m. For instance, it recalls a statement made on Chile by the  President  of the World Bank to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Honourable members, particularly the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  should listen to this. They would be interested to know that, since the mid-1950s, publicly guaranteed debt in Chile has been growing at about 14 per cent a year. At the end of 1971 it stood at over $60 billion - quite a large sum - and annual service of this debt exceeded $5 billion. Servicing of debt since the 1950s has been growing at the same average annual rate of about 14 per cent. This is about twice the rate at which the export earnings, from which the debt must be serviced, have been growing. Such a relationship cannot continue indefinitely. This is - obvious and it is what important customer countries of ours are doing. 
A little while ago the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  expressed some displeasure or concern, as well he might, at some of the lagging of payments on the debt which grew out of sales of wheat to the United Arab Republic. Obviously, this is the sort of thing which must be watched in this whole process. It is important that when we increase the contingent liability the House look carefully at what is involved for future public financial commitments. I was also glad to note from the Corporation's annual report that our experience is continuously being shared with that of other countries. Australia, through the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, is one of the 23 member countries engaged in export insurance which are members of the Berne union, which is a very specialist institution where all countries involved share their experience of underwriting and public and economic information about all their customers. It provides a kind of forum in which notes can be compared. This is what we all regard as a potential international rat race - that is, the extension of large sums of money at concessional rates with creditor countries which can ill afford to do so competing actively to obtain orders by this means. It is entirely healthy that they should compare notes and we should be in discussion with the other countries concerned. Since we have joined the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development we have belonged to another body through which it is possible to bring about some rationalisation of the extension of credit by the countries involved. This is a good measure. I support it and I also support the Minister in thinking that for one step he has gone quite far enough. 
The Commonwealth Banks Bill intrinsically is a very sensible measure. It puts the managers of Commonwealth Savings Banks branches on the same basis as managers of the private savings banks when lending money for housing. This is a wise move. There has for very many years been a strict limit on the maximum loan and on the rates of interest which this Bank could charge. This has had the effect of making the conduct of managers of savings banks virtually an automatic process. The essence of training a good banker, a successful banker, is that he should be able to exercise bis discretion and, on the basis of his experience, be able to make sound judgment between the various classes of borrowers and generally apply his practical experience of affairs gained over the years to each individual case. On the other hand, putting a banker or any other such person in a procrustean bed subject to operations only within limits prescribed from outside has a bad effect on banking. In fact, it enables the poor banker to take refuge in official rule books and instructions from head office and avoid exercising proper judgment and discretion. If things go wrong he can seek refuge and defence in his official rule book. So basically for that reason I welcome this measure as a means of improving the operations of the Commonwealth Savings Bank. 
However, it is wise to look at this question in the rather wider context of banking. I refer to the part which the Commonwealth Savings Bank plays overall in Australia in lending for housing. The Commonwealth Savings Bank is the largest institutional lender for housing. Last year it advanced 35 per cent of the total advances of all the savings banks, government and private, throughout Australia. In 1971-72 it provided a large number of loans which totalled $220m. Since 1960 the Commonwealth Savings Bank has lent  $li  billion to help 228,500 families buy and acquire their own homes. By any token its operations are massive. Any change like this will have considerable significance. 
Apart from its massive operations, the conditions under which it lends, the amount of the loans and so on have for many years been the signpost to the rest of lending for housing. It has been one of the main signposts and criteria for judging houses, -the price of houses and the conditions on which other lenders operate. One notes from the report of the Department of Housing that some interesting changes are taking place in the field of lending for housing. For instance, last year lending by trading banks and major assurance companies increased by 45 per cent. There have also been some other changes. One of the most significant has been the rapid increase in the advances made by permanent building societies. In that year they lent $667m which, in the aggregate, was $l0m more than the amount advanced by the savings banks.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you have personal knowledge of these matters and you will appreciate that a milestone has been reached when permanent building societies overtake what hitherto have been the largest lenders for housing - the savings banks. 
The Department of Housing also reports that in 1971-72 the volume of housing completed and undertaken rose yet the numbers engaged in house building actually declined. This indicates that there must have been some increase in productivity of labour on the sites and a better organisation of the labour supply. Another factor has been the increasing industrialisation in building. So far we have not gone as far as the United States of America. In the United States there has been a big swing to industrialised housing, its assembly in decentralised factories and its construction by bringing the parts together on the building site. In fact the United States Government has conducted a very powerful campaign called Operation Breakthrough. It has endeavoured to improve the productivity of house building by getting factory industrialised labour conditions into a large number of components and reducing the proportionate amount of labour employed on the site. 
Another aspect of the Commonwealth Savings Bank is the very massive quantity of national savings it absorbs. Apart from housing - it is, as I have said, by far the largest institutional lender for housing - it is also the largest holder of Commonwealth government securities. The proportion which can be lent for housing is limited, and has been limited in the past, by financial authorities largely to ensure that adequate subscriptions would be forthcoming to support Commonwealth bonds. This is interesting because it leads to one of the great dilemmas in the housing field. The savings used for housing cannot be used for the support of government loans and government expenditure. Here there is an intrinsic element of competition. In addition to the impossible demands of housing and other things which the Government wants to do which call for tremendous loans and tremendous Government expenditure, in the last few days we have had added to that the firm notice from the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  that he looks forward to absorbing considerably greater resources than have been absorbed hitherto in the Australian Industry Development Corporation, all of which must come from savings in other directions. 
In Australia we have been enabled to undertake a huge volume of construction. The Department notes that last year we built 10.1 dwellings for every 1,000 people. By world standards this is a very notable achievement. We have kept up this rate of housing construction for a very long time. In one sense there are never enough houses. But the actual achievement in creating them has been impressive compared with the standards of other countries. We have been able to do this because investment from overseas has helped to finance the other things we wanted to do, such as expanding our manufacturing and mining industries. This has freed our own domestic resources for things like housing construction and for financing huge government expenditures and filling loans. But there is a tremendous pressure on resources resulting from all these rival claims. No doubt the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  is giving this matter consideration. He and former Ministers for Housing have quickly come up against the inevitable thoughts of the Treasurer, who is presented with a tremendous number of bills for different things by his expensive-minded colleagues. The Treasurer is the man who has to operate the chopper. The fact is that there is direct competition between many users and spenders of resources. These converge and will probably obstruct the amount of resources which can continue to be devoted to housing. 
In recent times the number of dwelling approvals has been rising very rapidly. For the first 5 months of this year it was 20 per cent more than for the same period last year. In the banking system and in other lending institutions there is a high state of liquidity, so there have been very few financial inhibitions on further building, so much so that building construction is pressing very hard on resources. This is likely to get worse. For instance, in some areas such as Wollongong the pressure is extreme. I am told that in the Wollongong area the cost of middle-priced houses has been rising at about $1,000 per dwelling per month. This pressure should cause considerable concern and worry about the total building program which we are trying to undertake. It will need the early attention of the Minister for Housing who should think about the targets he can achieve, what is realistic and how the resources of the Commonwealth Savings Bank and other institutions can be split between housing and the other demands of government. 
The pressure is increasing so quickly at the moment that it threatens to add to all those other factors which are now increasing the prices of houses and land. The pressure is made worse by the fact that a large number of people are now aware that it is better to buy a house now, while they can and while their money is worth something, than to sit around and wait for the value of their resources to be dissipated by the inflationary process. The rise in the cost of houses, as indicated by the rate at which the cost is rising in the Wollongong area, is a danger signal and may be a signal for some reduction in plans. There is a considerable time lag in relation to these matters. Housing cannot be switched on or off overnight. If the Government intends to initiate something in this direction, which at times can become very important, it has to do so several months ahead, bearing in mind that the repercussions on other industries which feed the housing industry are highly critical for the total industrial climate. 
The matter is not an easy one to control, but I suggest that the Government will have to watch it very carefully and not allow the pressure to build up and the money that will be made available to add so much to the demand that prices and costs of land and building and speculative activity of one sort or another frustrate genuine home seekers. This pressure is rising, and considerable and drastic measures will need to be taken to maintain control of it. Merely pouring more and more money into the housing sector and writing cheques freely will defeat the primary object of building many more houses. I emphasise again that I think the Bill is a very good one when it is considered from the point of view of good banking by the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the increased discretion and flexibility that it allows to the Bank. But it will have a marked effect on the remainder of the system, particularly as the Commonwealth Savings Bank is the largest lender for housing. 
The effects of the Bill will have to be watched. The fact that individual bank managers will have greater discretion should not mean that the authorities will not have to keep an eye on the total number of loans that can be granted. In the past the amount of the individual loan has been restrained by the desire to satisfy as many clients as possible. I hope that overall control will still be exercised and that the authorities will keep a very close watch on the total amount of credit being made available in the housing field so that individual efforts do not add up to a considerable volume of frustration. 
The House is asked to appropriate quite considerable sums under these 2 Bills, which are rightly being treated as one, for carrying out the proposals submitted in the early stages of the new Government. When one looks over the very brief course of the new Government and sees how it has arranged the expenditure of this money, one must feel that this was a unique episode in Australian political history. The Government was formed overnight and was placed in the charge of 2 men only. Between them they shared out all the portfolios, offices and responsibilities of the former Government. An examination gives us all some food for thought as to what could be done by ruthless men if they had a compliant Governor-General. We could find the exercise of all political power in this country suddenly concentrated in a very limited number of hands - probably as few as one. For those 2 men the episode must have been a field day. No doubt in their old age they will look back on it with great pride. If one thinks of what happened during this period one finds it is rather fascinating to consider the activities of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Undoubtedly he would go to an office in the morning and no doubt for much of his time would be engaged in public relations activities, which all of us would agree is something at which he shines completely. When it comes to pulling the wool over people's eyes or persuading them of a case, the Prime Minister has scarcely a peer in this country. But if one considers his administrative work, he must have gone into a department and, in accordance with normal good administrative procedure, an officer of the Public Service would have given him a ministerial letter to write to the Ministers in change of other departments. The Prime Minister would spend about an hour in studying the letter, would sign it and then, a little later, would quit that office and presumably go to another department. The first thing that would happen when he arrived there would be that an officer of the Department would hand him his letter to read and he would then proceed to reply to it. 
I presume that this must have been a little amusing for the departments concerned and also for the Prime Minister who would be writing letters to himself, giving orders in one section and then, in another section receiving the orders and carrying them out. It was a strange situation because just  2  men had divided up between themselves all the offices and powers of government. In fact, the Prime Minister became for a while the giant PoohBah of all time. He was the giant Pooh-Bah in charge of writing letters to himself and running departments, one with the other. He was the big Pooh-Bah in charge of all the important offices and baby Pooh-Bah was in charge of the lesser ones. This must have been a unique and fascinating episode. I hope that someone studied what happened and will write the story. It would be amusing and edifying and certainly would make a unique constitutional history, at the very least. This was a field day for  2  for a while until, of course, the lesser mortals of the Australian Labor Party got to work and played the numbers game, largely for the purpose of sharing out the gigantic Labor loot, a great bag of loot to which most of them had been quite unaccustomed in the past. They proceeded to split it up and share it out. The leaders - the lucky ones - having moved into new offices, proceeded to appoint their supporters with the result that each big flea had little fleas, little fleas had further fleas, and so on down the scale. 
This process led to some confusion. For instance, baby Pooh-Bah got himself in a good deal of trouble and became very confused over his particular offices. He could hardly be blamed because, even after the stripping down and sharing out by the numbers, he was Minister for Defence. Minister for the Navy, Minister for the Army, and Minister for Air. Who can blame him if sometimes he forgets that he is Minister for Supply also. In this process many new people were imported very quickly to service this new Ministry and they became a little confused by some of the splitting up of functions between the professional Public Service and the kind of people who, no doubt, are good and capable adherents of the Labor Party. Large numbers of pressmen suddenly transferred their employment. They were taken off the payrolls of the Press magnates and, very quickly, put on the new padded payroll of the Public Service. This process continued and, of course, it led to a certain amount of confusion. How were these people and the professional public servants alongside them to know how to sort out functions and roles to which neither side was accustomed? 
I refer again to the baby Pooh-Bah. He. of course, became very confused and, on one occasion, in his confusion he cast a slur on a senior public servant, a slur which he has not yet removed. 1 repeat that this was an extraordinary episode. Not only have we this extraordinary and unique history, which we are still going through, but also we have the shakedown process. A number of honourable members must distinguish between a good many Ministers in the new Government and the efficiency with which they operate, particularly in answering mail from constituent. It is not for me to mention the distinctions between individual Ministers, but most honourable members would not take long to recognise the great differences of quality. We find that some Ministers who are so busy with public relations work, who issue most public statements and make most speeches around the country take longest in attending to their correspondence. 
I hope that the Government will shake down in its departments. Admittedly some of the Ministers do not quite know which department they are in. Some are probably located in this building, which is so short of office space, and the Ministers may not even have an office here. Even if they do have offices here, some of the officials of their departments, especially since so many have been added to the establishment, might not know where they are. For the sake of good government I hope that the Government is shaking down into a satisfactory routine and will be able and equipped to spend the very large sums of money which are to be made available in these  2  Bills. The baby Poo-Bah, so far as I know, is our first great generalissimo. He has a magnificent title and many Ministries under him. Although he personally has been elevated, the forces which he commands have been shrinking very solidly and quickly. 
The size of the Army has shrunk away to the extent of about a quarter since baby Poo-Bah arrived. He has indicated, in answer to questions, that he has schemes for the future of the armed forces. We do not know them yet. We have not been told what they are, but apparently they are in his mind. In regard to the reduction or the melting away of the Army, and in particular, of a large number of national servicemen, the purpose is somehow to reach a kind of target which notionally he has but which we do not know about. We cannot assess what it will be. We have to look forward to the day when he will specify these things so we will know what is happening and measure it against the targets that he has, first to quantify the value of his targets and what he proposes to do with them and, secondly, so that we may know to what extent he is realising them. We have not been told the planned size of the armed forces. The Government does not know because it has to re-examine everything, which up to a point, of course, is a very fair and reasonable process. I hope that the Government examines this matter so that it can bring forward tangible evidence by which we can measure this very important function of government. 
I wish to point to one particular outstanding weakness of the Government and in particular a personal weakness of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, perhaps not surprisingly, does not have an ounce of Treasury blood in his whole makeup. Honourable members on this side of the House who have exercised the power of government for some years know that the 2 basic things in government are that the total resources are limited and that the establishment of priorities is absolutely essential. The Prime Minister, on the other hand, is so fascinated by ideas that he cannot hear of anything except pulling out his cheque book, writing a cheque and saying that he will do it all. The Prime Minister has written a good many cheques. As every day goes past he metaphorically writes still further cheques. Unless this process ceases, Australia will run itself into a big budget deficit position. It is difficult at any one period of time to measure the effects, particularly over time, of a budget deficit of a certain size, but we do know that historically the process of rampant inflation has always had at its heart and as one of its worst features the development of uncontrolled budgetary deficits. Unless the Government finds within its soul the way to discipline itself and its policies, we shall be headed for further and further inflation. 
So far, the measures proposed, such as the setting up of a prices justification tribunal and so forth, in solid terms amount only to evading the. issue and diverting attention to what undoubtedly will be said to be the misdoings of business and of various (firms in the economy. Some of this undoubtedly goes on, but the focus will be in the wrong place. There probably will be no focus - we do not know, but I will be interested to find out what emerges from this process - on the giant rises in costs which, since the Government came to power, have been hidden. In fact, the Government has even appreciated the currency, whereas its domestic or internal policy is slowly eroding the fundamental basis of Australian payments. So, whilst we may be able to continue to do this for a while, unless the Government reapplies monetary discipline over the entire economy there will be more and more cost and price rises and huge extra payments for wages which, even recently, greatly exceeded productivity and the capacity of the economy to pay for them. Such increases will get worse and worse unless the Prime Minister and his leading Ministers decide that they will discipline the whole Government, bring the entire issue to heel, make ways and means match and generally apply discipline not only to the entire governmental establishment but also and in particular to the activities of the chief spending Ministers. So, in passing these Appropriation Bills - as undoubtedly we will - we shall watch with some concern to see whether in fact the Prime Minister and the Government are really serious about conquering what today is our greatest problem, namely, inflation. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister in his capacity as the Minister responsible to the Commonwealth Public Service. Has the Government any plan for revising the scale of superannuation payments made to retired Commonwealth public servants? Is he aware that this scale has not been adjusted for a considerable number of years during which the value of superannuation has been eroded considerably by the process of inflation? In fact the last occasion on which an adjustment was made, which was some years ago, was almost as far back as the last occasion on which parliamentary salaries were adjusted. 
-1 support this Bill which follows a practice which has now become almost time honoured by successive Governments and Treasurers. The legislation is derived really from 2 provisions, the Constitution and the 1927 Loan Agreement. They provide that if there is any surplus in the Consolidated Revenue Fund the Government is obliged to divide the proceeds among the States. An allied provision under a similar agreement and provisions provides that the Commonwealth Government does not have to submit to the Loan Council for approval amounts to be spent for defence purposes. This sort of legislation has become a convenient device to use, particularly if there is a surplus in the Consolidated Revenue Fund that might have to be distributed. This year, far from there being a surplus, there is, if it can be put this way, a very considerable shrinkage of Consolidated Revenue. 
But in supporting this Bill - noting as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said that it does not alter anything from a material point of view - I comment that it just shuffles balances among existing accounts. Therefore it should be supported as a very necessary and, as I have said, time-honoured device. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned also that there are certain things which must give us all some misgiving about the way our finances are developing. I recognise that no figures alone can outline the complete story. Figures themselves are subject to constant revisions. However, some things running together form a pattern which is cause for concern. For instance, only yesterday, 4th April, a report which is issued monthly was published showing that the progressive deficit for this financial year has increased very heavily. Compared with a similar 9 months last year the running deficit has risen from about $l,236m to $l,684m. This is a very considerable increase in the running deficit. Other oddments give us slight concern. For instance, the issue of Treasury notes, which are used to finance Government operations and to lessen the deficit, has more than doubled. Whereas last year the notes were at $494,000m, they have risen from this figure to well over $1 billion. The doubling of the Treasury note issue must make everyone wonder and look further into the accounts. 
These Treasury matters must cause overall concern. But worse than that is what leading members of the Government have said as to what is intended in government expenditure. It is perhaps a curious practice but while the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  was overseas - I am sure he was giving a very distinguished performance - the important Treasury portfolio was left in the charge of a Minister who by profession is the largest spender in the Government, namely, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  He is likely to add more to the Budget deficit than any of his colleagues. Also, the Treasurer himself has given us concern in this matter. He mentioned in general terms -  I  hope he was not wrongly reported - that there will be new expenditure under social services legislation. He said that social improvements should not be retarded because they might cause some large measure of inflation. This is a very unfortunate attitude on the part of a Treasurer. It indicates a carelessness of thought and a lack of worry about the central financial problems. As anyone knows, the major causes of inflation historically have been the development of uncontrolled government deficits and the carelessness and lack of control of government finances. 
In other respects there are one or two things which in themselves, of course, can be explained away. I refer as an example to the increase in the volume of money in circulation in the same 9-month period as reported by the Reserve Bank of Australia Statistical Return. In July the total volume of money supply was $17.8 billion. By January the volume of money rose to $20.79 billion. This is an increase of 15 per cent in the total money supply in the course of just a few months. When one adds Government deficit financing and increasing commitments in Government expenditure, plus this enormous increase in the volume of money, this in itself must give considerable cause for worry and alarm. 
The Government is in the course of introducing legislation to set up its prices justification tribunal. There are, of course, many reasons for price increases and price control. One can point to very many factors but there are certainly 2 major factors in this equation which the Government not only does not recognise but does not really seem to care about. Firstly, there is the tremendous cost push which is coming from constant and overrapid increases in wages. Most of the members of the Australian Labor Party would probably deny that this has anything whatsoever to do with prices and that this large element of cost could be ignored. Of course some increases in prices may or may not be justified. Mention has been made of the powers that State governments might exercise in this field. But however good this tribunal may be, however carefully the price increases are investigated, it will be sabotaged underneath from outside because price control has no chance of working when the money supply is increasing at such a rapid pace and when Government deficit financing is constantly on the increase. I hope that the Treasurer will exercise a suitable discipline upon his free spending colleagues starting with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  whose one reaction to every national problem is to pull a large cheque book out of the breast pocket, write a cheque and think that the problem is solved. I think that this House will support the Treasurer if he, in conjunction with the other more responsible members of the Government, starts to impose some discipline to limit the kind of deficit which this Government is producing and also take a very close look at and maintain close control over the total money supply. This Bill in itself is a mere device, and like other members of the Opposition I support its use. 
-! also rise to support this Bill which has an interesting genesis. It goes back some years originally to the missions sent by the International Bank which at that time recommended particularly the building of a road from the coast at Lae up to Goroka to open up the inner highland region which contains about one-half of the population of Papua New Guinea. This advice and consultation resulted in the building of a gravel road as far as Goroka. It was opened in 196S. This proposal will update and improve the Goroka highway and the other highway to the Mekeo , area, giving access to the Port Moresby market. The resulting economic expansion which should follow from the opening up and improvement of these 2 highways should make a very marked difference to the economy of Papua New Guinea. 
In September 1972 the Asian Development Bank reviewed the project, examined it and approved the granting of these loans. Papua New Guinea entered the Asian Development Bank in 1971. It was the 36th member. So far no-one has mentioned the importance from the point of view of Papua New Guinea of its being admitted and becoming ah independent member of that organisation. Towards the end of last year a committee appointed by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs examined this question of Australia's overseas aid. Many of the meetings were chaired by the Present Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison).  One of the recommendations made by this body was that an increasing proportion of Australia's overseas aid should be given in multilateral form and relatively less in bilateral form. This is very apposite to the loan we are discussing. The Asian Development Bank, apart from its importance to Papua New Guinea and apart from' Papua New Guinea's importance to us, has a very direct importance to Australia's interests and participation in the South East Asian area. We are interested in a general way in the success of that institution and its workings which are in our interests in promoting the development of our own area. Particularly in these countries it brings a multilateral treatment to their problems. 
There are considerable practical advantages in this approach. As it is a multilateral iii :titution which is dealing with these matters, there is no question of a particular country following its own bilateral interests. It becomes an institution which is run and gradually accumulates experienced staff which knows the problems of the particular area concerned. Besides having this general expertise, it is able to assess properly the priority that should be given to different projects. This, of course, does not necessarily flow from the bilateral form of aid. Countries normally are interested in a particular area and in putting forward their own point of view in that area. So finance and help of this kind from the Asian Development Bank has a value to Papua New Guinea in its own right and in the Bank's own right, which is helpful from everybody's point of view. Also it has considerable advantages over bilateral support directly from Australia or from any other single country. 
This multilateral approach to developmental problems was dealt with very well in a supplement on Australia's foreign aid in the March edition of the Bank of New South Wales circular. That publication pointed out something which was emphasised by the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development - that is, of untying particular bilateral aid so that it is not available in specific countries only, and moving over gradually and progressively to a multilateral approach towards aid. Aid which comes from multilateral institutions does not excite all the odium of colonialism and the peddling of particular interests which in the past have attached themselves to many aspects of foreign aid. There is attached to the totality of this matter another aspect of interest which should be supported by Australia. The Asian Development Bank should be well known but, if anything, it could be accused of hiding its light under a bushel. I will read what is said in the Bank's 1971 report. The last available report is for the year 1971. Not even a single copy of the 1972 report has yet reached the office of the Treasurer let alone the Parliamentary Library so that it may be available generally to honourable members. In the 1971 report this remark is made by the President: 
The ability to raise funds in the capital markets is, of course, of vital importance to the Bank's future and the foundations of future borrowing on a sustained and more substantial scale were further strengthened during 1971. 
The report goes on to say that the Bank borrowed $12 1.7m in that year, just over SI 01m of which was in 5 public issues which were made in Austria, Belgium, Japan, Switzerland and the United States, plus private placement of $20m with central banks and government agencies in the region. 
Since we have now begun to talk about our own credit status, our good payments position and so forth, it is high time that the Australian market was open to the Asian Development Bank for the raising of loans and the floating of bonds. In fact, this is one of the recommendations contained in the report on foreign aid presented by the Joint Committee on 
Foreign Affairs. I hope that the influence of the ex-members of that Committee, such as the Minister for Science and External Territories and those who are now in the Cabinet, will be brought to bear in this direction because this is some way in which we can help the Asian Development Bank and in so doing help ourselves, because the advantage of this process would not only help to divert resources to the Asian Development Bank but also operations in an area in which we have a very close interest. In the process it does mean too that the Asian Development Bank, its bonds and its operations, become known to the people who operate systematically and regularly in the Australian money market. If the bonds and operations become well known in Australia, this will not only improve the knowledge that our own people have of the Asian Development Bank but it will also interest people, far and wide, in economic development in our region. This is a step which I think most of us who look at the whole of this objectively will agree that Australia is now ready to take. 
Two years ago I had the pleasure when attending the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank to promise in the name of Australia a gift of $10m to the special funds of this institution, the special funds being provided to furnish soft loans of the kind of which the loan in this legislation is an example. As the Treasurer in the next few weeks will be taking off for the next annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank, I suggest to him and to the Cabinet that one of best ways of bringing to this meeting some goods news from Australia would be to tell the Bank that henceforth the Australian capital market will be open to float bonds of the Asian Development Bank. If the Treasurer wants further confirmation of this, I refer him again to the report on foreign aid presented by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. If he looks at this report and considers the whole question I suggest that this is something that he could do. In the process I am sure that it would provide the very welcome news to the other countries who are members, and the Bank itself, that the Australian market henceforth will be open to their borrowing. 
I ask the Treasurer: In view of the marked improvement in Australia's balance of payments and the growth in our international reserves, has the Government given any consideration to permitting the Asian Development Bank and also the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to raise loans and issue their bonds on the Australian money market? 
As already indicated by previous speakers, the Opposition is not opposing this Bill. The reason is, of course, that relative to the housing operation in Australia the amount provided for in this Bill is only a marginal sum. The Bill provides for about $6. 5m to supplement and carry out the program which has been agreed on with the States. But what it invites above all, of course, is examination of the position we are getting into over the vastly inflated volume of housing which Australia now has under construction. For instance, at constant prices seasonally adjusted to eliminate as far as possible the effects of seasons, investment in private dwellings is now running at 11 per cent over that of the December quarter. 
I refer also to our building approvals. Everybody realises that building approvals are not in themselves a precise measure. In practice many prove abortive, but they are the best indication of trends at any one moment. They are bunched, they come unevenly, but even so from any viewpoint what they indicate is that the pressure on the housing and dwelling building industry in Australia is leaping up to highly excessive levels. Building approvals in March rose by 12.1 per cent above the previous record level of January. In the 3 months up to and including February the seasonally adjusted rate of construction was 169,000 per year. In February approvals were running at about 16 per cent above the level of approvals for the same period last year. 
All this is matched, of course, inevitably in the rise in prices which is taking place in land and in dwellings themselves. This is also being accompanied at present by a very steep rise in the cost of materials used in house building, which rose in February alone by 0 9 per cent. The steepest rises in building materials were: Miscellaneous materials, 1.7 per cent; cement products, 1.4 per cent; timber board and joinery, 1.2 per cent; and concrete mix and sand, 1.1 per cent, all in a very short period and all indicating a very disturbing trend. For instance, in the course of the year ending in February the increase in the price of timber, a very important input in housing, was 10.2 per cent. The other 2 basic construction materials were steel products and cement products, which increased in a year by 7 per cent and 5 per cent respectively. The increase for all groups in the year ending February was 6.7 per cent. It is the trend and the development which are fundamentally so serious, because in this context the Bill, as I said, adds only a very marginal amount to the pressure, but it still adds to the pressure, and for this reason it has to be considered a very small part of a total problem. 1 realise that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  is not responsible. He has some responsibilities in this field, but he is not responsible for the overall economic management of the country. That is the province of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  and if the Treasurer does not very shortly set about curbing some of the inflationary activities he will have a worse and worse inflationary situation on his hands. It is no use, for instance, setting up prices tribunals and doing a vast amount of window dressing, which he and other Ministers are doing, when in fact the basic causes of these movements are left unattended to. With a pressure like this on the building industry - on land, houses and everything to do with building - inflation becomes worse and worse. The Minister for Housing and other Ministers understandably are pursuing their own policies. They are ill organised. 
There is no real cohesion and leadership in the Government to act against inflation, and so these individual sectors which progressively add up and make the situation worse are left unattended. Housing is the key to the whole economy because it sparks off directly so "much demand in the economy. It keeps so many industries going in the economy that its effects are very far reaching. If the Goverment does nothing at a'l to restrain the development of the building sector the inflationary problem will become worse and worse. Honourable members opposite can talk about manufacturers increasing prices, higher wages or anything else, but unless Government expenditure, which has become altogether too extravagant in various directions, is severely controlled the country will get into a worse and worse mess. 
There are some features of the Bill which I would like to mention and to commend on the whole. One of the obvious shortages in the housing field in Australia is housing for rental. We have probably reached the stage where home ownership has been relatively overdone. We now have an increasingly mobile population which needs to shift from place to place and not to undertake long term commitments like buying a house. These people need a rent houses and to be able to move quickly from one place to another and from one job to another. This is a requirement which is most acutely felt amongst the lower income groups. I do not believe that the housing commissions run by the States, which differ very much between themselves, have given proper recognition to the basic problem. That is more rental accommodation, particularly housing, for the lower income group. Unfortunately, housing for rental has declined for a number of reasons, one of which is the construction activities of State housing commissions. These vary from State to State. 
In New South Wales, for instance, the perpetuation of close rent control for so long after the war years largely destroyed investment in housing for letting. The old fashioned idea was for people to build a house to live in and another one to let to bring them in a separate income. The oppressive operation of rent controls has for a long time transferred property rights in housing from the owner who financed it to the tenant. This is a very difficult situation to remedy. Only recently investment in housing for letting has begun to recover. Apart from that, the housing commissions are essentially organisations geared for the construction of houses. New South Wales and Victoria have efficient housing commissions but they are geared to construction for producing good value for money. They do an extremely efficient and good job, but they are not concerned so much with the other features. 
The housing commissions are so wrapped up in construction that this is what they want to do above all. It is their policy. The advice which the commissioners give to their Ministers is to obtain as much money from the Commonwealth as possible and then to sell as many homes as they can so that they get the money back and fill up their coffers. Then they can turn over their investment and build still more houses and sell them. They are overdoing it. Money for housing which is provided by the Government should be for social purposes. It should be used to improve the lot of the lower income people who cannot afford housing. This diversion of housing commission resources into building for sale has absorbed altogether too much of  their  total resources. Every house which the housing commissions build and merely rent freezes their funds for a long time and they do not get the joy and privilege of building still more houses and building up their functions. This advice is continually poured into the ears of the housing ministers, many of whom are unsuspecting and new to the job. 
I believe that public moneys for housing have been in some degrees misapplied. For instance, many houses sold by the State housing commissions have worked out as nice little capital gains for their purchasers. There is a great contrast between the automobiles and the other exhibits of wealth which surround many housing commission homes and the incomes of those within them. In this field I believe that the Minister is right in tilting the housing commission operations much more towards the provision of rental accommodation, which is what Australia badly needs overall. 
If one looks at the cement factories in Victoria and at their technical studies and so forth one sees good construction, but on the whole housing commissions are not geared for social type thoughts in regard to housing. They are construction authorities and they behave like anyone else. If anyone else is building houses he likes to build them cheaply and efficiently, to sell them and to build other houses. That is the way it goes on. I am pleased to see that with this new policy there will be a greater diversion towards constructing rental accommodation. In the past varying means tests have been applied to housing problems. Houses have been sold or let to a great number of people who could well afford to finance themselves on the private outside system. Over the years these people have virtually been subsidised by the taxpayer. It is quite timely that this system should be changed. 
Of course, the Minister for Housing is not the only one operating in the field of housing. The Minister who ultimately generates the demand for housing and who maintains the long term underlying demand is the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  He is cutting away the immigration program. 1 suggest to the Minister for Housing that he should be in very close consultation with the Minister for Immigration. I know that the Minister for Immigration is highly preoccupied with hi.-' thought that fine feathers make fine birds, but he should endeavour to work in very closely with housing operations over the whole continent and see that he does co-operate and bring bis programs carefully in line with future housing programs. I know that this does not necessarily fall within the responsibility of the Minister for Housing at present, but he and the Treasurer should be highly responsible. They should have  a  very considerable voice in other programs as well as their own. 

 Mr Speaker, let me refer to another matter which should interest you - the housing activities of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant).  He is also the author and sponsor of some remarkable housing schemes, including some in your own electorate, of which you wm be a very effective judge in  a  practical way as events unfold because you will live very closely with them. I hope they bring you joy. Of course, different views are taken of the activities of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Some people think that he has become a little expanded by an over-intake of witchetty grubs over a period and that at times his judgment may stray a little. However, the fullness of time will find the answer. Clearly there ought to be a great deal more consultation and co-ordination between the Minister for Housing and the Treasurer than there is now. Although the Minister for Housing represents only a small part of the house building program in Australia the control and influence of the direction of the program by the Government is a very important part. I hope the day will come when this Government settles down and its Ministers act in unison as a well disciplined force, work together and cease to be a lot of loose parts travelling in various directions at high speed, each armed with his own blank cheque book. 
The Minister for Housing is faced with some difficulties of which 1 have some previous knowledge. I hope that he will at least give careful thought to the overall effect of building costs on Australia's economy because not only will they affect the whole inflationary situation but potentially in due course they could bring down the Government if it neglects inflation for too long. I hope the Minister will be prepared to play his part in this field and will think in terms of the building industry itself. The pressure has to be eased. Someone has to take the unpopular role of reducing the pressure on the building industry. Until that is done all the other proposals for price controls and price tribunals and all the other eyewash in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and others engage will be in vain unless steady attention is paid to the practical housekeeping needs of the nation. Proper discipline must be exercised in every department. Unless this kind of discipline is restored and Ministers act in unison as a team the inflationary situation will worsen, whatever measures are taken. This measure, which puts pressure on the building industry, will increase costs far and wide. It will over-inflate the various suppliers to houses and they inevitably, sooner or later, will have to take a set back when a housing downturn occurs. The present rate of expansion, which is quite unsustainable, will build up pressures more and more. I hope the Minister for Housing will play his part to make sure that this industry - as important as it is - will keep on a very even keel. 
The honourable member mentions the Tariff Board inquiry into building materials. What has emerged from that inquiry? What has happened? Has the honourable member seen any rates of duty or prices come down? I have quoted a few that have gone up and the pace of increases is accelerating. 
Yes, but it is no good saying a report will be issued some day by the Tariff Board, believing it will have a practical effect here and now. That is only living in a dream world. We must get out of this dream world and come down to the market place if we want to come to grips with this serious problem and lay sensible, solid foundations to cope with it in the future. I know the Minister is interested in the next matter to which I will refer - the standardisation of building - as he mentioned it in answer to a question in this House. For some absurd reason the plumbing fixtures throughout Australia differ in size. For instance, I know that the minimum size of a toilet in Canberra, for no reason apparent to most of the world, differs very markedly from the maximum size of a toilet in Melbourne and throughout the country. 
Yes, I believe it would be an excellent opportunity to remedy this situation. I hope the Minister for Housing will be given responsibility for this, instead of it resting with the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  who is interested in quite a different type of plumbing altogether. I hope that the Minister for Housing will be given more power to co-ordinate building requirements throughout the Commonwealth insofar as it is sensible from a practical point of view. I suggest that that is one of the most useful channels in which he can direct his obvious considerable energies. 
I wish to draw the attention of the House and of the public to the disgraceful way in which the recent Coral Sea Week celebrations have been used by leading members of the Government to express their hatred, contempt and dislike of the United States of America and our whole American connections and previous relationships. I refer in particular to the recent occasion when the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  had accepted an invitation to address the Coral Sea dinner in Sydney which for some years has been staged by the AustralianAmerican Association. For this Coral Sea Week the United States  President  sent out as the chief American celebrant an astronaut whose name is well known and who has represented his country continuously. 
On Monday last a dinner was held for this celebration at which the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Defence was invited, as the leading representative of the Government, to make the main speech of welcome to the visiting astronaut and to address the guests. He accepted this invitation. A very short time before the dinner he informed the AustralianAmerican Association that he could not attend because he was too busy as he was going to New Zealand. Having virtually dumped them at the last minute, he suggested that they get in touch with his  deputy, Senator Bishop,  but he also was not available when he was approached. Further discussions then took place about which Minister would represent the Government and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Contact was made with another Minister. A discussion took place in which that Minister indicated that if he accepted the invitation he expected to be able to say exactly what he liked. It became obvious to the members of the Association that he would be a most inappropriate invitee. Time expired and the matter lapsed. When the dinner actually took place the chair, which should have been filleJ by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Defence, was vacant. It was left empty and the situation became extremely embarrassing to all concerned. The very poor effort of the Government in this matter was made manifest to all. 
I draw this to the attention of the House because, above all, this occasion which should have been one to celebrate our previous victory with our allies was used by the Government as a vehicle to express the very fashionable hatred now felt by large numbers of members of the Australian Labor Party, and particularly by leading members of the Government, towards the United States and everything American. I think that this disgraceful episode should be made known and that as many people as possible should express resentment at these kinds of occasions being used by the Government to express its hatred of the United States. The House and the public should be roused to great resentment by this disgraceful episode. 
I would like to begin my speech by likewise congratulating the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on his account of and participation in these important events. I would like to say, however, that my praise ends there - and this has nothing to do with the Treasurer himself. I refer to the inherent lack of progress in the affairs of the 21 countries. The statement which was supplied to us by the Treasurer is a papering over of the deficiencies of the ministers and those who are fundamentally concerned. 
I would like to point to what I regard as another very unsatisfactory development. I refer to the sudden retirement of  Mr Schweitzer,  the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund.  Mr Schweitzer  has made an outstanding contribution to the world. He is a first class man. In fact, he is one of those rare examples of a really first class Frenchman who has a perfectly international mind. The Australian Government in other respects has made a good deal of criticism of America, most of which is very ill-placed. But it is an open secret that it was the Americans who forced the resignation of  Mr Schweitzer.  Normally he would have been reappointed for another 5 years to continue the very significant and important leadership that he has given already. I believe that this is an important matter for Australia. We should observe, note and deplore the fact that  Mr Schweitzer  has virtually been pushed out by United States pressure. Apart from anything else, this resignation leaves a very serious gap in the proceedings. Also, it will be difficult to find a successor. I should add that  Mr Frank  Southern,  Mr Schweitzer's  very able and experienced  deputy  managing director, also has resigned. I have known  Mr Southern  very well for years. I do not know the circumstances of his resignation but I can well visualise that  Mr Southern  was disgusted at the treatment which his own countrymen extended to  Mr Schweitzer  and he has resigned as his silent, effective and only way of expressing openly his disgust at this action. The fact that these 2 key figures have been removed from the scene I regard as most unfortunate. 
I will not detain the House by putting forward everything I had intended to say. Apart from the lack of inherent progress I think this is very unsatisfactory and I hope that the Treasurer and Australia generally will give particular support to obtaining another first class head of the International Monetary Fund. It is all very well to have this committee of twenty-one. The establishment of this committee is, of course, temporarily taking it out of the hands of the experts and putting it into the hands of great authority, thus passing from the realm of greater knowledge to that of greater power. This in itself has not apparently improved the situation. 
I would like to say that we now have 2 fundamental requirements. One is a new stable convertible currency as the basis for our reserves and those of other countries, acting as the lynch pin of the whole system. The other is a more satisfactory mechanism for establishing the exchange value between individual currencies. These are fundamental requirements; they are 2 points in which we need to have progress. This brings me very much to what the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  was talking about in his remarks on Special Deposit Receipts. I join in his remarks as one who also has participated internationally in creating these and supporting them in the past. But Australia needs to look at this development very carefully. I certainly supported this arrangement in the days when Australia's position was that of a debtor liable to get into balance of payments difficulties. Added to our reserves, this arrangement gave us an extra cushion. But it is now suggested in the communique which the Treasurer circulated that the Special Deposit Receipts should become the principal reserve asset of a new reformed system. Australia needs to look at this development very carefully because we have moved into a position, and we will probably continue in this position unless we mismanage our affairs too badly, of being among the creditor and strong countries. The danger to us in the ultimate development of SDRs is that as one of the major SDR countries we could well in fact be called upon to provide real resources to finance the rest of the world, particularly the rest of the world which does not manage its affairs as well as we do and which gets into balance of payments troubles. 
At times pressure will be put on us to be a good fellow for the sake of the rest of the world and so forth. All of these kinds of pressures will develop. In hard terms the prospect is that Australia will be called upon to provide real resources through this means to The rest of the world. In fact, we have done this for quite some time, as I am sure the Treasurer will recognise. What should originally have been a source of strength must now be something that we have to attend to very carefully. Whether it is possible to create gradually over a period of years a new synthetic reserve of this kind remains to be seen. We certainly do need a basic currency unit and we must play our part internationally towards getting it. Many new and different proposals are being put forward. One of them was put forward by the Professor of Economics at Harvard in his Jacobsen lecture the other day. He suggested for instance that there might be something to be said for keeping, as one has to, the old idea that each country should determine or initiate changes in the par value of its currency. Both the United Kingdom and the United States of America have been very sluggish in doing this. That has resulted in currency crisis dragging on. In the end they had to devalue their currency and disturb the rest of the world. 
This mechanism, he suggests, might be that the fundamental par value would be determined by individual countries on their own initiation and their discussion with the International Monetary Fund but the margins which are now allowed and have been permitted to expand might expand each side of the par rate. But these finer adjustments, the finer tuning as he called them, instead of being left to individual countries would be left to the International Monetary Fund which could quite easily take a more objective overall view of the situation. It might be responsible for the fine tuning of balancing one movement against another. This, of course, would involve some sacrifice of sovereignty. But we have to be flexible. We have to examine all these proposals now coming forward. I hope and I think it would be the desire of the Treasurer to keep us all very carefully informed. Admittedly, when this House has discussed exchange movements it has not in the past distinguished itself. Such discussions consist mostly of rival members of the House screaming loudly at each other from the depths of their constituents' pockets. 
In the future, with a greater understanding of these matters, this situation could improve. 1 ask the Treasurer to keep us continuously informed. I hope he will enlighten us as to the changes that have taken place in the personnel of the International Monetary Fund, and if he has a position on that it would be interesting for us all to know it. I imagine when we do know it, we will come to the same conclusion as he has. But it is important that all members of this House and the public should be informed of the movements which are taking place as soon as the Treasurer can possibly inform us. Finally, I should like again to congratulate the Treasurer on his part in these matters. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
 I rise to lend support to the remarks made last night by my colleagues the honourable members for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  and also by my electorate neighbour, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  concerning the Surf Life Savings Associations of Australia. As you are well aware,  Sir, your  predecessor in that chair when he was the honourable member for Phillip also played a great part in obtaining some financial support from the Government for these bodies. Their activities are well known. Of course, what they are doing is something which is an essential part of the Australian ethos. It is a characteristic not only of Sydney but also of Australia as a whole. As was pointed out last night the movement is well known throughout the world. There are 2 very important social applications. First of all, there is the effect on the young men who give up so much time and effort throughout the year to remain on duty and to safeguard the lives of .'hose people using our beaches. But the unfortunate thing about this is that the cost of their equipment is continually rising. Nowadays, for the purpose of saving the lives of many citizens who use the beaches life saving clubs have to buy sophisticated equipment, the cost of which goes up year by year. This is quite apart from their facilities, life saving houses and the rooms necessary for them to maintain their continuous watch. 
The honourable member for Phillip recently arranged for the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  to tour the beaches in the municipality of Waverley which area my electorate also overlaps. I hope that the Minister will now be particularly familiar with this problem. There is a need for an increase in the public moneys which are made available to support these associations. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation has a great advantage in this matter because he also happens to be the Minister Assisting the Treasurer. Of course I held the office of Treasurer many years ago. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer is given a certain advantage because his hand is near the till. I hope that these remarks of mine will be passed on to the Minister and that in administering one portfolio he will not entirely forget the opportunities which his second portfolio gives him. 
I see the honourable member for Phillip nods assent. There is a cost in running these life saving associations. I point out that it is not only the people in the immediate vicinity such as the business peop'e and other private donors who contribute to the movement who benefit but also the whole of Sydney benefits, because a great proportion of the 3 million people who live in Sydney use the beaches from time to time. An undue burden is being thrown not only on these young men but also upon the people who support them in raising the funds and who generally help them. I feel that the Minister should take into account that this is a service which benefits many people, on a large scale. The community, through the Commonwealth, should be called upon to give this movement adequate support. At the moment it is short of funds, lt is struggling and facing great difficulties. A great many people give up a good deal of time and energy. This is purely a public service which they render to their fe'.low citizens. I, like my colleagues in this House, feel that the movement should be supported to a greater extent, particularly as we now have a Minister whose responsibility is directed towards this aspect and who, as I say, has one hand in the till. I hope that the Commonwealth will review the claim of these bodies with a very generous eye. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Have plans been made for the introduction into Canberra of large scale day labour for the construction of houses for the government building program? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Have the Naval Air Power Studies, referred to in the third paragraph on page 35 of 'A Survey of Future Needs of the Royal Australian Navy, August 1972' (Parliamentary Paper No. 138 of 1972), which were being conducted within the Defence group of Departments, yet been completed? 
If  so, will he make the resultant report available to Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice; 
Has he assessed the Canadian solution for the long range patrol requirements for which the Australian DDL destroyers were planned, involving helicopters and fast supply ships to accompany much smaller vessels and provide air cover, fuel and supplies. 
Could less costly and many more smaller ships be constructed than the DDLs were it not for the helicopters, fuel, ammunition and supply capacity being incorporated in each destroyer. 
Will he publish the results of any study which he orders into future naval construction requirements. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. Has the Department of Defence prepared adequate contingency plans to be ready to deploy forces in the Eastern Highlands of Papua New Guinea, New Britain or Bougainville if any rebellion breaks out there after independence and proves too strong for the authorities at Port Moresby to deal with? Are there still enough men left in our shrunken, depleted and harassed Army to cope with the situation? 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What is the annual rate of construction of dwelling units which the Australian housing industry can support without unduly inflating the cost and price of individual units. 
What target has been established for 1973. 

 - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  joins in a very interesting way - I am not sure whether it is a happy or uneasy partnership - that other great follower of the doctrines of the 1890s put forward by Henry George. I refer to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who obviously also is taken in such a solid grip by those doctrines. It will be interesting to see how the 2 honourable gentlemen in combination develop their new ideas and tracts. As to the Budget, we have learned that it confers upon the Minister for Urban and Regional Development huge sums of money to spend. He has busied himself by providing his alibi in advance; that is, if instead of this grand scheme we get a grand mess he will be able presumably to blame the States and other authorities for their lack of co-operation. 
I rose primarily to address myself to the Budget and the remarks of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  I congratulate the Treasurer on presenting his first Budget. For almost a generation he was the shadow Treasurer. I can remember year after year how he contributed his ideas to this House. Yet, like so many shadows that come and go, that whisk in and out, the Treasurer his in fact proved to be a very solid shadow. At last he has gravitated to a position of power. Over the years when he made his contributions to this House a large number of people were not inclined to take very much notice of him, but now they realise when they study the question that year by year, little by little, he enunciated much of the policy which is now being embodied in the policy of the new Government. Perhaps they did not listen at the time because they thought that nobody could be as silly as that, that such ideas were not to be taken seriously. Now they await the next onslaught coming to rob them of something or other. Perforce, they have to take the Treasurer very seriously now. 
I congratulate the Treasurer on bringing forward various matters which have been under way for some years in the Treasury. I have in mind program budgeting and all the other things which to some extent appear to have been taken over by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Whether that is so I do not know because, despite open government, it is very difficult to follow these matters. I hope that by now the Prime Minister realises the limitations of open Government. He has recognised these limitations because on several occasions the exchange rate has been varied. Quite clearly this is a case where discussion by the whole Cabinet with more entering such discussion creates more mess and confusion. The only way to handle these matters practically is to confine them to the very few even if at times it does mean excluding Ho Chi Jim and leaving out someone who might consider he should be consulted. Historically it has always been the position that the decisions must be made by a limited number of people who by the time such discussions arise are pretty well primed with all the main considerations which must be taken into account. 
As has been stated by a number of people recently, this Budget is notable in that it provides for a huge transfer of resources away from the private sector to the public sector. Whatever view one takes of this situation, it does lead to many practical consequences. Some may rejoice and think more should have been spent on behalf of the public and less on behalf of the private sector but the fact remains that basically it is the private sector which produces distributive income and builds up living standards. What the Budget does particularly is basically to ignore the problem of inflation. When the Treasurer is charged with this or is asked questions about inflation he prefers to reply fairly blandly that inflation did not start with the Labor Government or his custody of the finances of the country. This is perfectly true. Inflation has 'been developing in many ways throughout the western world and taking different forms in different places. Certain serious problems for which the Treasurer and the Government cannot be blamed have played a serious part in our own dislocation. For instance, the Treasurer can hardly be blamed for the recent trend in world commodity prices which have gone up and down like a switchback and dragged the economies of the world in their wake. Nothing done in Australia could avoid the tremendous crisis which has come from this flow of commodity movements and prices nor the movement in capital which has flowed around the world and come into Australia in large quantities. 
Other matters also have been beyond his power. For instance, fixing an appropriate exchange rate for Australia has become a complicated business. Of course it is simple enough for any particular group to look around and decide fairly quickly how it would be better off or worse off according to what action has been taken. For several generations we have had sterling to latch on to and we adjusted our exchange rate in accordance with the basic movement in the value of sterling. More recently we have changed from sterling to the United States dollar and now we face confusion. Not only is sterling dragging very badly and its value continually plunging but the United Sttes dollar also is dragging its anchor, if anything, worse. They are continually changing relationships with each other and the other leading currencies of the world have all been changing inter se. This provides a set of circumstances in which it takes a fine degree of judgment to decide the sensible course for Australia to pursue. 
One thing that can be said is that by appreciating our currency the Government has followed what might be dictated or suggested by current movements in the exchange rate and in our external trade. The fact is that while the external value of the Australian dollar is being steadily appreciated, its internal value has been steadily weakened by the process of inflation which hitherto has not been as bad in Australia as it has been elsewhere. However this position is rapidly being undermined and changing. It is not a simple judgment to make nor should we come to a simple minded conclusion which is easy to come to in terms of particular interests involved but which does not really add much to the total understanding of the situation. What we must do is follow the notion that the Government is pursuing a high external value for Australian currency but by its conduct is constantly eroding its internal purchasing power. In the end - in the long pull - it will be the way we manage our affairs in Australia which will decide whether, in fact, Australia really has a strong currency or a currency which will steadily become weaker and weaker. 
Whatever is done about dealing with inflation certain things must be done and these are difficult for any government of any persuasion to achieve. Firstly, something must be done to limit the constant growth of incomes at such a pace. The constant putting up of incomes, irrespective of what is produced and the productivity involved in the process, must be slowed down. It is essential to bring government expenditure under much closer control and also to pursue sound management policies in regard to Budget deficits and generally to contain the local fiscal situation. Unless government expenditure is controlled, limited and curtailed no system of price fixing has the least chance of success, except for a very short period. It is also vital that the Government take charge of the monetary policy - the supply of money. We have had considerable growth in this respect partly from overseas - something has been done to curtail this - and also by internal domestic expansion. This growth was well under way before the Government came to power. 
With respect to inflation it is no good referring back too far historically and saying that somebody else has had it worse. The really guilty party with inflation is the last person who had reasonable control of averting the disaster. So whatever has happened so far, the present responsibility now fastens directly and primarily straight away on the Treasurer. It is a difficult responsibility to take but the Treasurer cannot avoid it. He has to defend himself. Is he doing everything he can to curtail and inhibit this process? I would suggest that at least in one respect he has now come to realise this situation with respect to the money supply. He has announced what used to be abused as most horrible when the Opposition was responsible for running the country, namely, that a credit squeeze is about to be instituted. I personally believe that something of this kind is really required, but it will have some very unpleasant consequences. 
Today in the House we heard certain statements about the bond market and putting up rates of interest. If the economy is to be slowed down and if we are to slow down the rate of growth obviously there must be a rise in interest rates. This will have a number of other effects on the economy which will not be pleasant from the point of view of anybody. As has already been pointed out today, it will affect the housing situation, the ability to go on constructing houses and the ability for young people to pay for their houses. As indicated in the Budget Speech, the Treasurer is already well aware that housing is so crucial to the total economy that it becomes a very sensitive indicator. If the economy is to be slowed down, housing is the most effective area in which to start doing this. Clearly this has to be done. 
Despite this, huge sums of public money are earmarked in the Budget for State housing, so there will be a continued huge expansion of housing in the public sector, and the private sector will find it very difficult with the impending and increasing credit squeeze which will be applied month after month from now on. This is an unpopular tiling for any government to do. It is rather amusing now to see the Treasurer changing sides, and instead of talking of a great credit squeeze, as he used to describe this kind of policy, inventing a slightly more euphonious term for it. But in fact it remains a credit squeeze. 
We have begun - and it must be continued - a progressive tightening of money. The money supply has become much too large and ill disciplined. Presumably from now on interest rates will rise, on whatever day the increase takes effect. If this process is to make any impact on inflation it will have to be applied progressively. It will make it more and more difficult to operate profitably in the private sector. As it passes around from one to the other it will gradually have the effect of slowing down activity. This is the first real, effective move that the Treasurer and the Government have made towards inhibiting the process of inflation. This is utterly essential for Australia's future. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development said that the Australian Government must have power to control prices. This is now the current cry. One can see that the idea of the Government is that prices will rise higher and higher under the impact of what it is doing, whatever inhibiting effect the curtailment of money supply and credit restrictions will eventually have. Many price increases are now in the pipeline, and the simple theory put forward is that if the Government has power to control prices all will be well. As I said earlier, without limiting incomes, without curtailing Government expenditure and controlling money supply, no measure of price control has the least prospect ultimately of being successful. This is the basic reality. The other things are mere trimmings. 
Price control as such we experienced in the closing years of the Second World War and just afterwards. When it is really attempted on a large scale by the Government it becomes rapidly evident that you cannot have price control by public authority unless in turn you can control all the ingredients which go to make up prices. They include wage rates, raw materials and so on. To control prices by edict you have to finish up with iron-clad control over the whole economy. That is why I personally resist any idea that power to control prices should be transferred to Canberra on a permanent basis. Ths power is not really wanted for price control. Price control is merely the deception to get a favourable vote to transfer power to Canberra. I believe this is a snare and a delusion. It will not be properly worked. We will get involved in all sorts of tangles. There will be detailed control by and through the bureaucracy and the Ministers. There will be personal interference according to preferences which people express, but we will end up with an iron-clad control over the whole of the Australian economy. This is why I believe we should resist any process of legislative price control. 
We have a little time to watch what happens in Canberra with an experiment in price control. If price control had a chance of being successful anywhere in Australia it would be in Canberra, which, is full of the necessary control and administrative ingredients. But we should set our face against any idea of transfer of direct powers over prices and all the ingredients necessary to maintain price control from the States to Canberra on anything but a very short term basis. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Jenkins)  adjourned, 
My question is addressed to the Acting Treasurer. The honourable gentleman will recall that, in the course of the 
Budget Speech, the Treasurer noted that the continuing housing boom was straining resources and adding considerably to the upward pressure on the price of houses and land and also his statement that the Government would be seeking some modest abatement of the private housing boom in 1973-74. Will the Minister now consider reducing the intense inflationary pressure on the house building industry by cutting back the immense outlay on government housing which is provided for in the Budget, instead of imposing savage increases in interest rates on all those in the community who either are acquiring or are planning to build or buy their own homes? 
I thank the Minister for that information. It seemed to me that the present Minister for the Capital Territory was the one Minister in the whole Cabinet who did ring true as being thoroughly adjusted to the job that he had to do. He was in harmony with his job. He seemed to exude the spirit of it. He appeared to be a roundpeg in a round hole, one of the very rare cases in this Government of heterogeneous bits and pieces. He was in good harmony with the spirit of his job. His harmony certainly far exceeded that of the Ministers in charge of the financial and economic affairs of this Government who collectively seem to be getting the country progressively into a mess. Not only are these Ministers out of harmony with their colleagues but also are they notoriously subject to centrifugal forces and seem to scatter in every direction and come together but occasionally. The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seemed to be thoroughly attuned to his portfolio, so he has been removed from it. I suppose that the principle of cause and effect to some extent follows. 
The new Minister for the Capital Territory is one of those rare occupants of this office who lives in Canberra, the Territory which he is to administer. He does know in a practical way through experience some of the problems of Canberra. For the most part, Ministers for the Interior or the Capital Territory, or whatever Ministers in charge of the Australian Capital Territory are called, in successive governments have not been residents of Canberra, although the last few Ministers have. I have always considered that the primary requirement for someone who is responsible for a city like this is that he should live here and be thoroughly acquainted with its practical problems. I wish to mention one or two matters to which I feel the new Minister should give attention. The new Minister has now entered the chamber and the former Minister for the Capital Territory, now sitting at the table, is about to leave. 
For a number of years, I have pointed to certain aspects in Canberra which have not attracted the action of the Minister responsible for that portfolio. I begin by referring to 3 pieces of blatant pollution in this city which should have been cleaned up long ago. 
I think that the new Minister lives in a different part of Canberra from the area that I mention first. I invite his attention to a nasty habit that the authorities of the Capital Territory have of burning garbage in the open in the area of the Causeway. This creates nasty, dirty smoke on a large scale. It is opaque and very smelly. Large quantities of it can be viewed from many parts of the city in the direction of the airport. It is time, I suggest, that this nuisance was eliminated. The municipality in which I live certainly has not the population of the Australian Capital Territory or the resources available to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Garbage and rubbish of this kind is disposed of by burning in an incinerator. A perpetual nuisance is not created to the inhabitants of the area. 
I refer to the other two pieces of blatant pollution. I regret that the new Minister for Works  (Mr Les Johnson)  has left the Committee in the last few minutes. I say it is regrettable because his predecessors acquired a sawmill which burns rubbish in the vicinity of the Causeway and this burning pollutes the whole atmosphere. Another matter of importtance is the vast output from the Government Printing Office. It so happens that all unwanted printing material, papers and so on from the many government departments in Canberra, are disposed of in an incinerator attached to the Government Printing Office. I suggest to the new Minister for the Australian Capital Territory that he should go and have a look at this and examine the virtually daily burning that takes place in the morning at the Printing Office. At one stage this disgraceful state of affairs came under the control of the then Minister for the Environment. 
I hope that the new Minister for the Capital Territory is able to get some assistance, if necessary, from his colleague the present Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  in order to get rid of this very nasty nuisance which at times causes a large area of Canberra to be covered in smoke. I ask the new Minister to do this because I know he is enthusiastic. He lives in Canberra and he knows the district. I gather he likes it. I do suggest that if he does not have the money available he should get together with the other Ministers concerned and try to do something about it. There is one thing about this Minister and that is he does seem to attract a large vote irrespective of what position he holds. He has just retired from being the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. While he held that portfolio he had available a colossal amount of money. I suppose it has been a reason for his success that he has been able to go around and deal out funds on a very generous scale - a scale which would give any reasonably well organised Treasury a nightmare. But that is the way in which this portfolio has been administered by him and his predecessor. But I point out that this is necessary in the administration of the portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs. As has already been said in this place, it cannot be considered on the same basis as other expenditure proposals. 
This morning I heard a broadcast which stated that the new Minister for the Capital Territory was going to carry on with various things including price control. It may not be fair to ask the new Minister a question like this on his first day in charge of this portfolio but it is curious to note that after the recent increase of 5c a gallon in excise on petrol the price of petrol in Canberra was frozen pending an inquiry into retailing in Canberra. This raises the question of who is responsible for prices and how prices are frozen. I noticed a couple of items in the Press, one of which was a Press statement which was made on 3 October by the previous Minister for the Capital Territory in regard to the price of petrol in Canberra being increased by 3c instead of 5c a gallon. I would like to know whether prices in Canberra are the responsibility of the Prices Controller or whether they are the direct responsibility of the Minister concerned. I would also like to know how this decision to increase the price of petrol in Canberra by 3c a gallon came about. 
An inquiry was held into the price of petrol in Canberra. A report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 4 October suggested that the Prices Controller did go into this matter fairly fully and did take evidence. The impression made on those who were giving evidence - perhaps people often gain the impression that they have made a bigger impression on the minds of the listener than they in fact have-r-was that the view of the Prices Controller or the Assistant Prices Controller was that it had been proven that an increase of 5c a gallon was justified. Yet the Minister increased the price by only 3c a gallon. Prices control and its administration is an important subject for the future and I think it would be useful if the Minister were to table the report of the 
Prices Controller in order to clarify the question of whether the Prices Controller, as such, is responsible for fixing prices or whether the ultimate power lies with the Minister. 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN  (Mr  Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many man days were lost due to industrial disputes at the Williamstown Naval Dockyard in each of the years 1971 and 1972 and in the period from 2 December 1972 to date? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. He will recollect that not long ago he told a large Jewish audience in Sydney that the sovereignty of Israel was not negotiable. Can he now inform the House what steps the Government has taken to assert this policy in the United Nations Security Council, particularly during the time our Ambassador there was acting as  President  of the Security Council? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say how many ships of the Russian Navy visited the Indian Ocean during each of the years  1968  to  1972  inclusive and during  1973  to date. 
To what bases in the area do ships of the Russian Navy have access. 
Has any effort been made by the USSR to obtain access to any additional facilities in the countries surrounding the Indian Ocean. 
I will reply briefly to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  regarding foreign aid. Of course, what he says in the main is perfectly true. But in my view - and I think that if he considers the matter further he will recognise this - the main contribution which the rest of the world can make to this problem is to liberate the trade of developing countries. As far as Australia is concerned, much has been done just lately. But what these countries face, above all is a denial of their exports to the markets of highly developed countries. We and others have opened our gates to some extent, but always with the proviso that we limit the total imports and we reserve our right to change the arrangements should this be embarrassing to any of our industries. Of course the wage rates in these developing countries are low. Thus, they appear, quite falsely overall, as dangerous competitors to many existing industries. I will not pursue this matter because the debate on this matter has been closed for the night. But what these countries need even more than specific financial contributions is the ability to earn their own living and to increase their income by exporting to other countries those things in which they have a relative advantage. That is the root of the matter. 
I rose chiefly to address my remarks to the serious declension which has taken place, as mentioned by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  in our relations with South East Asia and the near area to Australia. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  some time ago made a statement which was quite right at that time, and still is - apparently it has been forgotten since by him - that our most impor- tant relationship if we take all the countries of the world is that with our nearest neighbour Indonesia. Indonesia is a large country, rich in resources, and with a tremendous potential if it can enjoy stable, reliable, regular government for a sufficient number of years ahead. Our relations with Indonesia have deteriorated. Reference was made by an honourable member during question time to the article which appeared recently in the 'Financial Review*. That article said in substance what has been going around the traps for some time - that the position of Australians in Indonesia has gone back and that we are no longer regarded in the same basic warm manner as we were a few years ago. 
We have received notable service in Indonesia from the Department of Foreign Affairs, including a number of quite outstanding ambassadors. They include men like Mick Shann and Mclntyre, who is temporarily the  president  of the United Nations Security Council. Over the years they have built up a tremendous personal relationship. The predecessors to this Government, of course, played an immense part at the time of the liberation of Indonesia just after World War II. But these relations, as the honourable member for Kooyong pointed out, depend very much on style. In this respect, headed by the Prime Minister, we have slipped back. This is largely because of the style of the Prime Minister. In everything, including diplomatic relations to which it is quite unsuited he likes drama, the big splash, the sensational reports, working up excitement and things of that character. This is in very ill accord with the current rulers of Indonesia. Unfortunately, their position does not seem to be understood clearly by members of the present Government and, even less, by some of their associates and friends. 
One has to remember that the present regime in Indonesia arose originally in sharp response to a communist coup. Many of the present rulers narrowly escaped having their throats cut on the night of the uprising. So their rise to power was based on a very fortunate escape at the time. But since then, there has been a firm and economically sensible government. It managed to conquer very largely the acute problem of inflation in Indonesia at that time. It set the country right, developed the right economic patterns and generally adopted the correct postures all around the world. One has to remember that these people are naturally highly sensitive to and very rightly scared of communism. One may sit broadly on these matters. But with this tremendous movement which nearly took over Indonesia, the Indonesian authorities are very sensitive to relations with the People's Republic of China and with the rest of the communist world. They see, as other people see, that the current changes in China have brought about a much more civilised type of government, if we may call it that, which is anxious to converse and have relations on a broadening basis with the rest of the world. At the same time, that government, or its agencies, continue to stir up propaganda and above all to encourage revisionist regimes in the rest of the world. 
So the Indonesians do not quite understand our sudden love for the neo-communist international world. This makes them suspicious. Naturally, on that basis relations cannot proceed on the same basis of confidence which we have now built up over some years. The other things in which the Prime Minister indulged are also registering on the other countries of South East Asia. The Prime Minister's remarks about Thailand and his attitude towards the South East Asia Treaty Organisation sow doubts in the minds of all the people of this area. 
Yes. But surely the honourable member does not claim credit for the change of government in another country, does he? 
No. Certainly, after the remarks which the Prime Minister has made, his influence is not likely to wax in Thailand or in any other country of this area. But the fact is that the attitudes of other countries towards us have, of course, been changed quickly. The government has changed and so - has our posture. The Prime Minister has laid great stress on cultivating new relationships with African countries which in themselves, subtracting some of the notions that go with some of them, would be, per se, good things. But, in the United Nations he has changed our posture and run along with the uncommitted countries, and he has been to the kinds of conferences in the world which are basically hostile to our way of life. No doubt those countries and the people at those conferences are pleased with him. Probably they are delighted. On the other hand, this has been done at the expense of our old solid friendships with other countries in South East Asia, particularly with Indonesia. 
In relation to Singapore and Malaysia, we have withdrawn our troops and so forth, thus leaving the feeling that we are unreliable people. When occasionally Lee Kuan Yew has pointed this out or our Press has pointed out the exchanges between the Prime Minister and Lee Kuan Yew, it has not interested the rest of the world very much. The Prime Minister says lightly and flippantly things which leave lasting smarting wounds in the minds of our friends in Malaysia and Singapore. When the Prime Minister engages in verbal thrust and tumble with Lee Kuan Yew, he comes out without many feathers left. When he is in this House, he turns his back on us and looks around to the cheering minions behind him - he is like the Himalayas amongst the sand dunes in that outfit opposite - and it is very impressive. But the fact that as our Foreign Minister he is doing the same kind of thing when he goes around the world leaves a very bad impression with our friends in Asia. I regret and I am sure the House regrets very much that all the good personal relationships which have been built up over the years - to a certain degree by honourable members of this House visiting the area - are now changed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I propose to deal with the estimates for the Department of Housing. Like some of my colleagues, I also pay a tribute to the energy and enthusiasm of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  and at the same time express to him a measure of sympathy for the position in which he now finds himself. Like former Ministers for Housing he now finds himself in the somewhat uncomfortable position of being in the nutcrackers. He has a policy for housing and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Government as a whole have a financial and economic policy and these two policies are in direct conflict. I am sure that the Minister will readily admit that a tremendous boom is occurring in the housing field. In fact we are trying to build houses greatly in excess of our capacity. About two or three days ago an article in the Financial Review' pointed out, among other things, that we were now attempting to build houses at a rate about 40 per cent above that which we have the capacity to achieve. 
Faults in the housing situation are not really due to the Minister; they are, in fact, a byproduct of financial and economic policy. Another essential party to the present situation is the Labor Caucus. The top range of the Government has formed a policy which has resulted in the imposition of higher interest rates and a credit squeeze - a credit squeeze which, in the course of about two or three months, will become an economic squelch when higher interest rates become effective. This policy hits most directly at housing which the Government clearly wishes to slow down. The main point of higher interest rates is to make housing more difficult, more expensive and to reduce its scope. I would say that at the moment in order to combat inflation this is one of the few things which the Government is doing which is likely to be extremely effective in this direction but, of course, the Government's policy, which is well conceived, is subverted by the free vote of Caucus. That 
Caucus consists of a number of people who, above all else in life, are frightened of becoming unpopular to any degree. In order to combat inflation housing must be slowed down and this is what the Government is doing. Interest rates have gone higher. I know that the Labor Caucus has passed various resolutions ordaining that interest rates shall be reduced to the extent that it is successful in achieving its objective but the economic policy of the Government as a whole will be falsified and will become ineffective. 
Like the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  I also express considerable interest in some of the initiatives which the Minister is taking. The first Australian Housing Standards Conference is to be held on 19 November. To this conference have been invited builders, architects, building materials manufacturers, unionists, representatives of State departments and local government, the Standards Association of Australia, universities and other leaders such as representatives of banks and building societies. This is a most important development which has taken successive Ministers of Housing a long time to achieve. I hope that the Minister will keep the House informed of the proceedings of this conference and will spread around details of the proceedings and of the suggestions brought forward. 
Whatever happens in the current inflationary situation certain structural changes in the housing field designed to reduce costs remain of permanent importance under all and any circumstances. As the Minister pointed out in his Press release the other day, the gross national expenditure of housing in 1972-73 was S2,075m. The possibility opened up by this exercise, employing just these factors alone, is a potential saving of not less than $125m per annum. I hope, if he can, that the Minister will add to this particular group one or two things which add to the cost of Housing. 
One of the unnecessary costs to home owners in the construction of houses arises from delays caused in solicitors offices. When one considers the number of houses which suffer one month or 2 months delay in settlement one realises how enormously this adds to the interest bill and to the cost. This is brought about simply by the dilatory nature of solicitors. I do not wish to insult all the lawyers in the House - a very big proportion of honourable members are lawyers - but this is one of the necessary and wicked costs which housing has to bear and which somehow should be eliminated. If the Minister strives also for reform in that area I feel sure that he will deserve the support of the House. 
The Minister understands very well the housing problems of New South Wales. One of his faults in dealing with the States, judging by the New South Wales situation which has certain problems quite different from those of the other States, is that he designs a Procrustean bed which he tries to force on the other Housing Ministers throughout Australia. Without going through articular political affiliations of the State Ministers, the fact is that the situation in Tasmania, South Australia, Western Australia and Queensland is thoroughly and fundamentally different from that in New South Wales. The policy adopted in New South Wales is very good as far as that State is concerned. It is very well designed for the de facto situation there. But the Minister goes astray in trying, by direct and indirect means of pressure, to force this policy on the other States. 
Fortunately this year there is to be a tremendous increase in government housing. Despite the great increase in government housing, the actual construction of government houses has been falling. In fact, the current housing program really tops off a situation of over-pressure and over-expansion of the private sector. The Government's program worsens the situation by adding to the pressure. The only redeeming feature is that until now much of the program has not been put into effect. 1 hope and I think that the House will wish the Minister success in his drive to reduce the cost of housing. Of noticeable interest also is the combination of the Department of Housing with the Department of Works. I feel sure that many honourable members will watch with interest the experiment in industrial housing, in factory type housing and all other things which the Minister has initiated and discussed. However, as yet he obviously has not had time to get very far with these projects. 
I would like to say a number of other things about the total situation but I realise that my time is about to exire and I will not have time to mention them. However, I would like to point to one statement made by the Minister recently to the Queensland permanent building societies. I thought his statement was a little rash. He said that in the next 5 years we will need to construct at least 1 million houses. If one looks at that figure against existing construction one realises- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. He will recollect that during the discussion of his departmental estimates he undertook to look into the question of 3 points of unpleasant pollution in Canberra. I now ask him whether he has had time to pursue these points and how far he has progressed. 
There are certain matters to which I wish to refer to put the record straight concerning what I know of the events of last Wednesday and Thursday. We are all aware, of course, of the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his references to the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  It so happens that the honourable member for Barker shares a flat with me and I saw him and had a discussion with him last Wednesday night before he went to bed. I can vouch completely for the fact that, as far as I could see, he was not in any way unduly influenced by liquor. When we woke fairly early in the morning I had breakfast with the honourable member and allegations that his eyes were bleary or that he was in any way affected physically by the events of the previous day were completely far fetched. I think it is important that these things should be known because on the allegations is based a very determined and intended slur. 
I will not endeavour to describe the nature of the slur but it is based completely on false premises. Of course, the Prime Minister has followed the old adage that where there is alleged to be smoke there is always some fire and, using this rather ruthless method, he has slurred the honourable member for Barker and has built up a case which from any moral decency point of view is absolutely outrageous. I feel that this should be recorded. 
My question is addressed to  the Minister for Immigration. Why is it that people who have Australian passports, and who therefore have been appropriately investigated, every time they leave Australia or return have to fill in a detailed questionnaire, stating their matrimonial status, their past marriages, whether they are widows or otherwise? Why does the Minister require this information? Or is it just a hangover from over zealous statisticians collecting useless information and requiring computers to put it through? 
I join the Prime Minister and support his tribute. As an official, I knew John Dedman. I worked for him for several years, and I got to know him intimately in that capacity. He was a tremendously hard worker. As the Prime Minister pointed out, he gathered around him a very dedicated, loyal and devoted staff. Although I knew him as an official, it was only after I became a politician that I appreciated, the full measure of what he did. Whenever he was conviced that logic was right and that he had the right policy, he would press it and carry it despite what everyone else might say. He was of tremendous help and assistance to the Prime Ministers of his day. He supported , them loyally in Cabinet and in Caucus. As has been pointed out by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  he was never deflected by any personal favour or any of the temptations which normally come to a political person. 
I know now that the amount of ridicule to which he was subjected and the pillorying over many years by the mass media, which would have deterred many a lesser politician, were withstood by him in a very solid and brave fashion. I know now that very few political folk on either side today would have the stomach to take anything like the amount of attack which fell to the lot of John Dedman over the years. 
This fact about him should be remembered: He acted as the focus for many ideas which have borne fruit in various ways and which political parties over the years have followed. He remains a wonderful model for people to follow. He worked very hard indeed. He applied the ideas of which he was convinced as to their soundness over a wide field and gave his authority to a large number of projects which have been mentioned already, one of his favourites being the Australian 
National University. I pay my tribute and express my sympathy to  Mrs Dedman  and the family. 
Br JENKINS (Scullin) - I should like briefly to pay my tribute to the late John Dedman. I pay a tribute not because of the concrete structures that can be seen and are monuments to his efforts. I pay it on behalf of a number of those human beings who now play a very important part in today's community. When we talk in the field of education, particularly that of tertiary education, we mention John Dedman's involvement with the Australian National University. So many have forgotten that John Dedman, as part of his duties with the war organisation of industry, had much to do with manpower and the use of materials. I started at Melbourne University as a part time science student in 1942. In 1943 the Australian Government instituted a scheme for university students by which students in protected faculties had their fees paid, and were given a book and equipment allowance and a means tested living allowance. One condition of this assistance was that they signed a 3-year bond to serve the Commonwealth after graduation. John Dedman was the author of this scheme. Many hundreds, even thousands, of university graduates of that period owe to John Dedman the fact that they were able to complete their courses. 
I knew John Dedman for a number of years after he had left the Parliament. It was always a source of great pride to him that some of us remembered this assistance. In fact, he used to refer to me as one of his boys because I was able to graduate from university under this scheme. I think one can see how this particular project led later on to Commonwealth university scholarships and today to free tertiary education in the community. While we think of the very massive projects that John Dedman originated perhaps we should remember his concern for human beings. This is one illustration of it. One illustration of his far-sightedness is that the concept of this scheme was not only for wartime but also to provide Australia with its professional and trained persons for the future. I valued John Dedman as a friend, as so many members in this House did. I pay my tribute to him as a statesman with so many interests in so many facets of the com munity. I offer my condolences to his wife and family. 
I desire to raise the subject of the effect upon the defence of Australia of the scrapping by the Government of the DDL program for the Royal Australian Navy. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  made a number of points about how this program has been criticised by honourable members on this side of the House and he named the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and myself. We have, in fact, asked questions about the cost of this program in relation to our total defence commitment. I would point out that it is the Navy which, relatively speaking, has fallen furthest behind. The Navy notably is our first and most important initial arm of defence. The lead time for the Navy is longer than for all other arms of defence. It takes longer to build a ship, to train the men who man it, to construct naval dockyards and to employ the labour force involved than it does for any requirement of any other arm of the Services. 
The first consequence of the abandonment of the DDL program is that the naval design team which has been built up in Australia to provide a corps of naval constructors expert in the requirements of our Navy has been disbanded. It contained a number of highly trained experts of world class in naval affairs. All this has been dissipated. Apart from that, involved in the DDL program was the expenditure of quite large sums of money on reequipping the Williamstown dockyard and other essential changes in the modernisation of our dockyards to enable the personnel to cope with the latest construction methods. It is a precious labour force. It takes longer to train a naval ship builder than it does a merchant ship builder. The Navy dockyards, in fact, work to very much finer requirements, necessities and measurements than ordinary ship builders outside. Our naval dockyards are a vital part of our defence. Their efficiency depends upon the skilled naval forces which exist at Williamstown, Garden Island and Cockatoo. It is of serious long term effect to start to disappoint these people, who need a continuous flow of work and training. They, in turn, are training younger engineers, naval architects and so forth. The delay in the construction of naval facilities at Perth also will put back the time when we will have a satisfactory base in the west from which our fleet can be deployed if necessary. 
The Minister has given as part of his reason for doing this that he wanted to have a fresh look at the situation. So one has to try as far as one finds it possible, to follow how his mind is working and what he is considering. The point made by us originally was that the conception needed examination. But the Minister and the Government have already cut some of their options. For instance, they have forsaken the idea of constructing a fast combat supply ship. Such a ship would have given the means for smaller ships to be sustained over long distances in distant places with full support facilities close by. The scrapping of such a project means that any attempt to look for a really effective overall alternative has been abandoned for some years. From what has been indicated so far, the Minister is not looking for a fresh conception of naval defence but at alternative vessels. We are bound to compare the cost of the DDLs with the cost of several alternative vessels which are being examined overseas. As far as one can deduce from information supplied - of course, not much is forthcoming in this direction - the Minister is looking at 3 alternatives. 
In thinking of Australian naval defence in terms of individual ships and their ability to sustain themselves over considerable distances, a number of factors are important. They include their range, their complement - the number of people they require is an expensive proposition if a large number has to be maintained over the years - their size and speed. The Minister is thought to be considering the United States naval patrol frigate; the Dutch warship 'De Ruyter'. which he went to look at in rather spectacular fashion just before the election; and the British vessel 'Sheffield'. The American frigate is a 25-knot vessel. I point out that 25 years ago the British decreed, in relation to warships of this type, that 30 knots was the minimum speed on which designers would be permitted to work. In the meantime speeds have gone up and not down. The Dutch 'De Ruyter', although of about the same tonnage as the DDL, carries a crew of 306 as against 200 for the DDL. Thus the continual annual upkeep would be very much higher than for the DDL and there has been no indication whatever that there would be any gain in efficiency. We can, to some extent, find out details about the British 'Sheffield'. Its range is certainly shorter. It has a range of about 4,000 miles at 18 knots as compared with a range of 6,000 miles at 20 knots of the DDL. 
There are a number of other deficiencies. The American frigate, for instance, does not carry any guns, which is one of our requirements. None of them carries more than one helicopter. Fast combat ships can supply any deficiencies in helicopters carried on those ships. But if a ship is to operate on its own over long distances it would, as the team involved very reasonably decided, need 2 helicopters instead of one. To all outward signs, the alternatives which the Minister is looking at are, as individual ships, of less effect and are likely to be of lesser account than the DDL, which has 2 guns, carries 2 helicopters and has built into it the range we require. The other ships would, on the face of it, need considerable modification. Basically the Minister seems to be chasing around from the point of view not of working to an entirely new conception but of bargaining about a few dollars as between one warship and another, and these vessels could be regarded, in some sense, as being equivalent. 
It is particularly important that the team which was got together and which has produced the initial designs for the DDL should be kept together and built up and also that the dockyard facilities should be expanded at the same time. Likewise, it is essential to develop and maintain the capacity of our electronics industry to develop and supply the radar, gun control mechanism and other features which no doubt apply to all these ships. It is important to keep this continually in being and to have it a living entity in Australia so that it is being worked on continuously and being developed, but all this appears to have gone overboard. I must apologise for raising this matter in the adjournment debate, but there has been no other opportunity. The defence statement upon which we were once promised a debate is now No. 50 on the notice paper. We were allowed about 4 speakers only during the debate on the Estimates, and the Minister for Defence took up a great deal of the time available. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he proposes to appoint a committee to advise him on the construction of a series of destroyers. If any of the committee's recommendations are accepted, will the Minister be willing to accept responsibility for those recommendations? Will he postpone any formal announcement until after the House has risen so that there will be no possibility of the House scrutinising the serious decline in our Navy? 
I begin by referring to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I do not know of any appropriate nickname but what he does in this place is to wield a rollicking steamroller over all matters brought up for discussion in the House, particularly matters of defence. Somehow he contrives in conjunction with the Ministers concerned to pretty well blot out discussion. Tonight I want to refer to the neglect by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  of our maritime reconnaissance forces. Maritime reconnaissance is one of the most important elements of our defence. To start with, it is a very versatile weapon and it can be applied to very many different uses. Hitherto, in the defence sense, we have thought of it primarily as a matter of anti-submarine defence. But long distance patrols and long distance reconnaissance also play a very vital part for Australia so that we have eyes and ears over the oceans, knowing what ships and aircraft are abroad anywhere near Australia. Also, from a near use point of view, we need efficient search and rescue facilities. The departments concerned with Defence and also customs and fisheries and a number of other government departments have a close interest in the general subject. 
In the defence estimates there is no real provision for continuing the re-equipment of our air squadrons for this purpose. In the Royal Australian Air Force we have the old P-2D5s, we have some later P-2D7s and we have some later Orions. All of these aircraft, although they have been modified over the years, depend very largely on the radar and apparatus which they deploy in their search and destroy missions. At the moment the Orion is still being modified and is still being used in the United States of America. There is another aircraft which at the moment is probably the best long distance anti-submarine aircraft; that is the Nimrod. Until a fairly short time ago it was generally put about that the Air Force had an appraisement team looking at the Nimrod and other possible maritime reconnaissance aircraft, but now it seems to have disappeared from view. There appears to have been no continuation. 
Once again I would like to emphasise the importance of continual exercise in this direction, the training of personnel concerned and keeping continuity in these matters. When a problem arises the Minister continually appoints a committee and says that he will give an answer in a year's time. This is really not good enough for Australia's defence. This afternoon mention was made of the referral of the Williamstown dockyard works to the Joint Standing Committee on Public Works. The basis was that the program of modernising and bringing up to date the Williamstown facilities has slipped back 2 years. This afternoon, when we heard from the Minister for Defence, he said that he was appointing another committee to advise him on a number of destroyers. However, all the time the decision is postponed. It is the decision that really matters in these cases. Governments can always appoint committees, and I have no doubt that for many governments that is a method of pigeonholing something, putting it off to the never never, doing nothing about it and just providing some sort of material to enable a Minister to answer questions when he becomes embarrassed because the Parliament wishes to know much more about the particular subject. 
Maritime reconnaisance aircraft really need broad study. Australia needs very versatile aircraft that can perform a number of functions. We have one type of miserable antisubmarine aircraft. Those aircraft are equipped with the best possible apparatus for finding submarines, which are one of our biggest potential dangers at the moment. They can be used also for carrying fuel to refuel other aircraft, as well as for short coastal work in searching for lost vessels. One is apt to think of vessels lost around the Australian coast. I appreciate that a particular section that is under the con trol of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has the responsibility for searches for lost vessels. We should not be too niggardly in the use of public funds to provide essential facilities not only for assisting ships that are wrecked or to search for missing vessels but also for generally keeping a watch on what is happening. 
We have had continual trouble with foreign fishing vessels entering Australian waters. We have not adequate facilities to cope with this problem. The Navy has some slow patrol vessels which move at about half the speed of the fishing vessels and would take weeks to catch up with them. We are not properly and systematically equipped to carry out this function. To gain early knowledge of what is approaching our shores, whether aircraft or ships, we need a satisfactory patrol system. We need to work continually on this and on the technique of using this apparatus and developing it for various uses. We cannot afford to have a change of Minister or a change of government after which someone comes in and pretends that he is making a brand new decision. Ministers, whether of the present Government, the next government or the one after that, will still be dependent fundamentally on the advice of the Service experts, who keep the whole show going year in and year out and whose decisions and recommendations should be assessed. 
We should not continually have a Minister coming on to the scene and postponing everything that has gone before or scrapping it by saying 'I want to re-think all this. We will have a new committee to decide it*. The same people, imbued with the same mental apparatus, come up with successive recommendations which clearly will not differ very much from those given to the Minister's immediate predecessor. So I should like to emphasise, which I could not do on the defence estimates or in a defence debate - such a debate never takes place - that we need to devote greater attention to what is happening in maritime recon.naisance. I urge the Minister to be more forthcoming on this subject than he has been so far. 
I should like to point out that we have an aircraft industry and it is important to keep it going. The Nimrod aircraft does carry a potential for a good deal of work; about 11 million man-hours inside the Australian aircraft industry. It involves the employment of quite a lot of people and it would be a means of keeping our aircraft manufacturing industry going and expanding continuously. Today the industry is working on the Nomad; but apart from that it is almost running down. As well as this civilian aircraft, the Minister should be considering, as an urgent matter, ways and means of using this industry to keep our own urgent maritime reconnaisance requirements going. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What persons have been appointed to: (a) his Department and (b) his personal staff with total annual emoluments of $10,000 or more; 
What were the emoluments and positions held by these persons immediately before their present appointment. 
In one respect I rather enjoyed the speech of the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  Unlike his predecessor who, I might say, lived steadily in my electorate, he does seem to have got around part of his enormous electorate. The gracious Speech had one curious and, in the circumstances, amazing omission because it glosses over everything and deals with a vast number of other subjects except the one which is gnawing the vitals of the nation. There is no recognition in that Speech that we are being carried rapidly by the doings, or lack of doings, of the present Government towards a point of social breakdown, because no country can see the value of its currency disappear and still remain socially stable. These dangers are far nearer to us than the Government or people in this House generally recognise. 
The fact is that the captain of the ship in this respect is my old friend, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  When people raise this ugly question of inflation the Treasurer is remarkably complacent. He shrugs his shoulders and says: Of course, I am not totally responsible, and the present Government is not responsible for all the factors that make up inflation'. Of course this is basically true; he is not totally responsible. He says for instance. 'Look at the forces which have hit us from overseas'. One must agree with this. There are some respects in which the forces and what has been occurring overseas would have made financial life extremely difficult for any government controlling Australian affairs. In the last few months we have been through a period of terrific boom in commodity prices. Prices, including meat and food prices, have gone up and down. In one respect we have done quite well - we have had a nice boom in export prices arid our farmers are doing well. But the other side to the argument is that it has increased the money supply and has vastly complicated the problem of dealing with inflation. The recent oil crisis and the other things that have happened in the world have all made the task of economic management extremely complicated and highly complex. In the end what we have to deal with is not all the forces we cannot control - we can adjust as best we may to them - but we have to do all those things which it lies within our power to do. 
There is no need to stress to a knowledgeable character like you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the rapid rise in prices and what this means to ordinary people. Of course, if one lives in Kirribilli one is not so conversant with the immediate impact of what is happening in the supermarkets and to the prices of meat and groceries. But one must say to all these unfortunate people suffering from the price increases that these prices are now in the grip of forces which are steadily making an increased money supply and are making further rises in prices quite inevitable. No doubt this development is causing worry to these unfortunate people and worry to everybody in the community, particularly those on fixed incomes, on reasonably stable wages or on a salary. The unfortunate part about the fate of these people - that is, most of the community - is that no prospect of relief is in sight. 
Firstly, in regard to money supply, I say that if the money supply is not properly controlled and it goes on expanding whatever else is done, whatever price control or whatever other measures are brought in, or whatever else may happen, a rise in prices is quite inevitable. It follows as night the day. In this respect the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who frequently debates these matters and repeats his old story, which he hopes people will believe, I suppose, has made the point that the big expansion in money supply did in fact start in the last year of the previous Government and before the present Government came to power. One must admit that this was the case. An over-rapid expansion occurred in the money supply which ushered this new Government into office. But this cannot remain the excuse forever. The person who is guilty is the last person who had the responsibility and the capacity to save the ship from disaster. The increase in money supply which has occurred ever since the Labor Party came to office has outrun by far the increase of money supply in the terms of the previous Government. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has also had other serious problems with which to deal. He has had to face the tremendous pressure of the inward movement of capital. This has expanded the money supply to a large extent. It has been very difficult to deal with and, in point of fact, he has dealt with this so effectively that there is danger' now of the position being reversed. What was a little while ago a very willing transport of capital to Australia to take advantage of Australian conditions and Australia's stability now looks in danger of running the other way. This makes economic management very difficult. But at the same time events in Australia are, in the aggregate, far more influential on the situation than the influences which so far have arrived from overseas and which are of a kind which cannot be dealt with. 
One must admit that the Queen's Speech does refer to other actions taken by the Government such as reducing tariffs and a number of other spectacular measures which the Prime Minister particularly has sponsored. These measures suffer from a leading characteristic of the Prime Minister which is that of a great showman. The great facade of action when analysed really means very little in the total situation. One thing that the Prime Minister did do in early September was to initiate a rise in interest rates and a tightening of bank credit. This process has been the one really effective action which so far has been taken by the Government to put an effective brake on inflation. But even this measure taken by the Government has in fact been interfered with and inhibited by the action of the Labor Party Caucus. 
In this House this afternoon Government speakers proudly announced: 'Oh, we are a great democracy. Every member of Caucus has as much say as the Prime Minister'. In fact, this is too sadly true. Members of the Labor Party Caucus can gang up and no doubt fix the numbers and up-end the most carefully considered actions of the senior Ministers. This in fact is a tragedy. The Government has tried to separate interest rates on housing from the general level of interest rates. Government members suffer certain illusions. For moral reasons or for political reasons they believe that a market can be divided up, that certain controls can be placed on one section of it and that section told that it must conform to one law, while another section can go free. The fact is that the money market is largely one unit. This has added extraordinary distortions to the market. 
One of the objectives of the Prime Minister's original action - whether he understood it, I do not know, but he accepted the advice given to him - was to put up interest rates and to restrict credit. One obvious result of this action was to impose a tremendous strain on housing and house building. This is a very necessary part of any action to help to restrain inflation. But even this measure has not become effective. It has become confused by the action of the Labor Party Caucus. The result is the most messy situation with which we are now faced. Any honourable member who examines the latest housing figures and sees the tremendous and sudden drop in the construction of private housing throughout Australia can only be appalled at what the Government has done. This has been done by default and not by design by the Government which has demonstrated its basic economic incompetence in managing the affairs of the country. 
This brings me to the matter of public finance. It is often said in this House - other honourable members have said it: 'You say we are spending too much. You tell us where to cut our expenditure down*. All I can say in reply to this is that the Government cannot spend this huge amount of funds suddenly in an economy of our size. It will defeat itself somewhere. Government supporters boast proudly of the tremendous increase in funds allocated for education. It is true that large sums of money have been allocated and cheques have been signed for a huge increase in the money spent in education. But half of the schools proposed cannot be built and a lot work cannot be done because the resources to do them just do not exist The public will gradually come to realise that a large part of this action is an illusion. 
Mir Coo Ike  -  It goes in teachers' salaries. 
We all realise that what the honourable member says in that respect is true. But, at the same time, that is merely adding to the number of money payments, adding to the money supply, adding to the balance of purchasing power in the community. That purchasing power is chasing no more goods or services. In fact the result of some of the Government's policies is the breakdown in supply of an even distribution of goods. That breakdown is only in its infancy now. Basically a great deal of the Government's effort will be found and proved very shortly to be abortive. When it comes to what the Government has to reduce, the fact is that in real terms the money cannot be spent in such a hurry, so soon and so quickly. All the time this expenditure is adding to the breakdown of our financial system and inevitably to the growing increase in prices and to an escalation in the fears held by the public in relation to finance. 
Another matter which affects the whole community is what the future policy of the Labor Party in this area will be. Here is an interesting situation. The Prime Minister in his policy speech showed himself to be a great expert at pulling the wool over people's eyes. He does that very successfully. He has done so with Caucus and the Labor Party for years. He has persuaded the Communist that he will be a neoCommunist in foreign affairs. He has persuaded other people including business people that he is right wing, a very moderate man, and so forth. He has gradually worked himself into the position where he is extremely capable at creating illusions both overseas and in Australia. Let me illustrate one of the traps in which he will find himself. He undertook to devote all of these resources to various public purposes but not to increase taxation. 
There is another school of thought in the Labor Party. The standpoint of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  over the years has been that such are the benefits forthcoming from this kind of program that people should be willing to pay the taxes and put up the money for it. So there is a natural cleavage here between one school that thinks there should be fiscal honesty and that money and funds for paying for these things should be collected - in other words, the purchasing power should be destroyed to make room for the Government - and the other school that says: 'Do not worry about all this: Just leave taxation where it is and hope for the best.' In many respects the result of hoping for the best is that all the time the pressure of inflation is accumulating - accumulating basically at such a rate that no ad hoc measures, no sort of formal price measures and so forth have the least chance in the world of coping with it. The progressive effect is that gradually prices rise. One price rises and then another. Wages get built into the system too and as the whole thing loads up one price increase encourages another and there is no halting this kind of happening except by imposing very rigid and tough fiscal measures. Until we get a government or a group of men who are prepared to do this I am afraid we are in for a very bad immediate future. 
Is the Minister for Education aware of the nationwide concern which has been aroused by the delay in implementing the pre-school report despite promises that the Government would, as from 1 January, take over financial responsibility for establishing and operating pre-school centres and child care centres? Can the Minister indicate what is the revised program of the Government in this matter and about what date the Government will begin to take over these centres? 
