Is the Minister for External Affairs aware that substantial evidence exists that a controversial journalist, not long in Australia, actually interrogated allied prisoners of war during the Korean campaign and that this evidence is available from Malaysian Government monitoring records? In view of this evidence and the statements made by certain well respected Australian prisoners of war in Korea, including a journalist, will the Minister make the facts known so that the Leader of the Opposition may inform his supporters and friends on the Burchett passport committee of the nature of their activities? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question which concerns the Vietnam moratorium and demonstrations proposed throughout the country for early May. Could the Prime Minister indicate what effects these demonstrations will have on the morale of Australian troops serving overseas and does he intend to allow Australian foreign and defence policy to succumb to such pressures? Is he also aware that many of the most prominent members of the Australian Communist Party and most members of the Opposition support the moratorium, its activities and aims? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs. I ask: Is a balanced presentation of Australia's commitment in Vietnam and South East Asia important to this country's association with its allies? If so, does the Minister view with concern the distorted impression which the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign, heavily organised and influenced by Communists, will project concerning Australia's position? Is this particularly so in view of the individual identification of so many members of the Australian Labour Party with the proposed Campaign? Finally, is not this concern even more urgent as personal support was assured to the Campaign by the Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition at a meeting of unions affiliated with the Queensland Trades and Labour Council held in late February at the Brisbane Trades Hall? 
Doubtless the interjections from Opposition members are an indication of the support which one is going to obtain from them with respect to the statement by the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  Before I deal in detail with the case presented by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  let me say that I think it is important to state that there would not be any members in this House who would not suggest that at the appropriate time and place appropriate protests in this country against laws can be valuable. Also one would never contest the case that there was a special obligation on members of Parliament, whatever their Party, and on any other members of those parties to protest in a way which is most likely to conduce to the welfare of the country. But in this case there is a special obligation on the Opposition which did not lie upon it in the last Parliament. As a result of the recent election the Labor Party has come to be within a few seats of obtaining government in this nation and for that very reason a special obligation was placed upon it, its leaders and each of its members to observe the laws and the appropriate ways in which to protest. 
If one bears that in mind and puts against those points the speech which has just been made by the Leader of the Opposition one finds it to be an incredible document. It is a document, because he read it. In the first place he said there was a meeting of the Brisbane Trades and Labour Council, from which he tended to disavow himself. It was a meeting to support the Vietnam Moratorium and he was not going to indicate support for such bodies or such processes. Then he immediately condoned the activities of many members of the Opposition in supporting the Vietnam Moratorium. He said: 'This body and its activities have not been proscribed by my Party'. I propose to look at that proposition a little more closely later on. Finally the Leader of the Opposition made this point; I think it is worthy of examination: He did not indicate whether attempts to change the law by illegal means were deprecated and opposed by him. For example, he did not go as far as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who, curiously enough, dissociated himself from the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign when it became a little too hot. 
The honourable member might like to rise later and explain his own personal position. The Vietnam Moratorium Campaign clearly began a little earlier this year when a meeting chaired by the  President  of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party was held in Melbourne. That meeting clearly called upon Australian troops in Vietnam to mutiny. We well know his statements and we well know the resolution passed by that meeting. The resolution urged national servicemen to lay down their arms in mutiny against the heinous barbarism perpetrated in our name upon innocent aged men, women and children. The comment of the  chairman  of that meeting. Crawford, on that resolution was this: 'It was not an unpatriotic resolution; it was a moral one'. What a curious view of morals! The Leader of the Opposition, thinking at the time that it was best to promote the view of moderation in the community had this to say in a letter of 18th December 1969, when commenting upon a statement by the secretary of the West Australian Branch of the Australian Labor Party: 
Members of the Party- 
In matters of foreign defence policy -  should not give the false and damaging impressions that under a Labor Government foreign policy would be determined at mass meetings or by public petitions. 
And so we come to the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. Mass meetings and public petitions are involved in this Campaign. The Leader of the Opposition has now turned to the left sufficiently to endorse both of these actions proposed by the Vietnam Moratorium committees and some of whose activities are proposed for the very centres of the great cities where they are most likely to provoke opposition by the other citizens of those cities. To wit, one has only to look at the demonstration planned for Bourke Street in Melbourne at a time when the maximum of opposition and the maximum of dissension would be provoked. Yet the Leader of the Opposition has said: '1 find nothing wrong in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign'. But at the same time the Leader of the Opposition desires to appear to both dissociate and associate himself from and with the activities of the Campaign. 
Let me deal first with the Brisbane meeting at which there were a significant number of Communists. I shall refer to a report of the Queensland Vietnam Moratorium Campaign co-ordinating committee bulletin dated 12th March this year. Associated with the Moratorium Campaign in that State are such enlightened personalities as the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham), Senator Keeffe  and of course  Senator Georges.  Honourable members should bear in mind that the Leader of Opposition desires to dissociate himself from that meeting. 
At page 2 of that bulletin this report appears: 

 Mr E. G. Whitlam had attended the meeting. 
He attended a meeting of unions at the Trades Hall which was designed to support the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. The minutes of that meeting were confirmed on 25 th March 1970. Associated with that Trades Hall is the greatest proportion of Communists in leading positions of any 
Trades Hall in Australia. The Leader of the Opposition associated himself with those proposals and those activities. 
I think it is appropriate for the House to consider those activities. After all, the Australian Labor Party over a great number of years has purported to dissociate itself from meetings and activities which were designed to promote the interests of Communists and the Communist Party, and in which Communists were involved at an organisational level. Let me read from 2 documents which are appropriate and which clearly indicate that the members of the ALP who signed the Moratorium and who are associated with Communists should be expelled by their own Party in the same way as the former honourable member for Batman was expelled from his own Party for being interested in the defence of Australia. 1 go back to 1928. The ALP Federal Executive rule of 16th February 1928 made the position perfectly clear. I will read only 2 resolutions the Executive made in the last 30-odd years. One resolution states: 
Individual members of the ALP are prohibited from advocating the policies of the Communist Party. 
Of course it might be said that individual members of the Australian Labor Party are not involved here. 
The Federal Executive of the Party took care of that in Canberra in 1959. The Federal Executive ordered State branches to take action against ALP members proved guilty of any offence involving unity tickets. lt stated also: 
If State action is not taken this Executive will, without hesitation, take appropriate Federal action to preserve the integrity of the Party. 
Between those 2 resolutions there were resolutions in the 1930s, the 1940s and the 1950s which indicated that members of the Party opposite who had had an individual association with Communists on this Vietnam Moratorium committee should and would invite expulsion. I now invite the Leader of the Opposition to look at the evidence in this respect, because it is extremely significant. If there is a unity of purpose and a unity of action between these people, they obviously invite expulsion. 
I turn now to the central organising committee in Queensland. On that committee are 2 well known Communists, one called Hugh Hamilton, the treasurer of the committee, and the other one known as Jack Sherrington, a trade union official of the Brisbane Trades Hall. Associated with that same committee are the honourable member for Capricornia,  Senator Georges  and  Senator Keeffe,  so they would invite expulsion just as did members in the past. 
Now we come to Victoria and we find the same unity of purpose and the same unity of action. We find the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  involved in a committee with  Mr Lawrie  Carmichael of the Amalgamated Engineering Union and an assorted group of Trotskyites, anarchists and others. Quite clearly the rules of the Australian Labor Party require that the Leader of the Opposition take action in this case because he is finding a unity of purpose between these people and ALP members. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  can laugh but he should realise that this is an extremely serious situation for his own Party. The Federal Executive of the Party time and time again has warned against this kind of association and this kind of activity. Similar unity is found in New South Wales and other States. The Vietnam Moratorium committees on which so many members of the Opposition are involved are not merely sprinkled with Communists. In some States Communists and ALP members provide the substance and the innards of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. 
Let us look at the Campaign a little closer and ask: Why should this Campaign delineate merely Vietnam? Why should it protest against Vietnam and against nowhere else, no other organisation and no other country? I can only think of the ingratitude of some members of the Opposition. Why do they not take time off to protest with regard to Cambodia? It would be appropriate. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Lalor went to Cambodia a few years ago. They were guests of the authorities there. You do not go to Cambodia unless you are a guest and quite acceptable to the authorities. At a time when Cambodia is under attack in significant parts of its territory and North Vietnamese troops are involved, as acknowledged by leaders of that country - past as well as present leaders - these honourable members as well as others take the time, not to protest against those facts, not to protest against facts concerning the massacres of Hue, not to protest against facts concerning other Communist massacres and terrorist campaigns, but to protest merely against the Vietnam campaign. In doing so they make their protest extremely narrow and curiously selective. We can go a little further and ask: Why do they make this Campaign so selective? Why do they not choose others? Why do they fail to return the gratitude of the Cambodian leaders for their excursion in 1966? 
Justice might have its way today. They do not make those protests because they have invoked their version of the Brezhnev doctrine. Recently during an address to one of the universities in Melbourne the honourable member for Lalor was asked a question concerning Cambodia and the interests of North Vietnam in Cambodia. He said that the Government of North Vietnam was entitled to secure that it had friendly governments in neighbouring countries. That was his gratitude for a visit to that country just a few years ago. So it becomes perfectly clear that there is not only a curious selectivity in this Campaign but also a curious association of so many members of the Opposition with certain people. For that association they would have been expelled a few years ago. They make the same kind of defence for the North Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia as was made for the Russian invasion of Czechoslovakia for which the Leader of the Opposition blamed not Russia but America and her activities in Vietnam. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
The attitude of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to this Campaign is a very sad event. A few years ago when we investigated the origins of the Council on Peace and Disarmament, the Australian Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament and others, which were clearly of Communist origin, the Leader of the Opposition twisted in every direction to evade responsibility. The balance of forces has now changed in his Party and it is such that he dare not even appear to evade responsibility. As he is the alternative Prime Minister in this country this is an extremely serious event for this Parliament, for this nation and for the allies with which this nation is associated. 
Our concern with the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign runs to 3 facets. Firstly, we are concerned with the very nature of its organisation, the united front which is clearly the driving force behind this campaign but which is now tolerated within the Labor Party. A few years ago it was not tolerated. Men were expelled for tolerating and assisting in this kind of campaign. Secondly, we are concerned with the irresponsibility and the effect on our allies and their soldiers in Vietnam and overseas who would believe the kind of campaign and propaganda put out by the Opposition in this respect. If I may give one example of this kind of thing, Australia has allies and it has irresponsible politicians just as the United States has allies and irresponsible politicians. It is clear that much of the disaffection in Thailand towards the United States has been related to irresponsible statements on the part of a number of United States senators. The change in attitudes of men such as Thanat Khoman has been related to statements by United States senators. Thirdly, there is the curiously selective attitude to war and violence of the Opposition. 
If we transpose that kind of situation to Australia we see that statements in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign and curiously selective attitudes on the part of its sponsors, its protagonists, and the Leader of the Opposition have a disastrous effect, not only on those in Vietnam who are faced with immense problems but on other allies in other nations. Our concern, then, runs to these 3 events. As I said a moment ago, the Leader of the Opposition no longer attempts to disavow the influences behind him which he tried to ignore for so many years as Leader of the Opposition and as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The evidence is clear that he and others are associated with Communists and others in this campaign. I invite refutation of the evidence. 
1 am interested to see the honourable member for Barton back in this chamber and merely observe that over the 3 years between 1966 and 1969 his voice did not break. So we see the Leader of the Opposition very much in the position of the Vicar of Bray. He has to alter and shift according to the forces behind him. If we may be a little unkind to the Vicar and may devise a little, we could say. 'No matter ever what executive may reign,  Sir, I  would still be the Federal Labor Leader, Sir.' 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, concerns development at the Brisbane airport whereby activities will be moved to the north and east towards Moreton Bay and away from the residential areas. Will the Minister investigate whether, as part of this movement, land acquired from the Brisbane Turf Club nearly 30 years ago the acquisition of which caused the abolition of the famous Straight Six at Doomben could be re-acquired by the club? I understand that this process would be of advantage to Brisbane and to the Club. 
The motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  is significant enough in itself, but far more significant is the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The significance of the proposed amendment lies not merely in the different choice of dates or the proposed new arrangements, but in the reasons to which the honourable member referred in submitting that the new days of sitting of the House ought to commence on 15th May rather than on 8th May. As I recall his words he said that he wanted to alter the days so that many members of his own Party could, on his own admission, commit an act of civil disobedience in Melbourne. He made that admission. Whether it is illegal or against the spirit of the law is not quite the point. The fact is that the honourable member wants to make this Parliament and its sittings subservient to those aims. That is very important because, for the first time in Australian political history, the Australian Labor Parly is departing from the time worn principles of a reformist party to adopt the role of a revolutionary Labor Party. This was always resisted by every Labor Leader in the past. As the Labor Party grew out of the limber workers in Victoria and the shearers in western Queensland it was always maintained that its actions would be subservient to the legal processes and subservient to the Parliament. Its representatives in the original Labor federation were elected to observe these principles and abide by them. This afternoon honourable members opposite have departed from that tradition and it is an extremely sad occurrence because Labor Leaders in the past, such as Theodore and Scullin during the depression, fought to keep that Party as a reformist party and subservient to the legal processes of the country. Honourable members opposite have thrown those principles overboard. 1 suggest that they have carried into their political structure principles and actions that apply overseas and which have not, up to the moment, applied in Australia. 
The honourable member for Lalor suggested that this was an example of participatory democracy. This is the kind of line that he uses. 1 look at the internal structure of the Party of which he is a member and 1 can see that its processes are anything but participatory. However,  Mr Speaker,  I return to the original suggestion made by the honourable member for Lalor. 
The significance of the amendment ought not to be lost in this country. Its significance ought not to be lost as part of the political processes of this country. 1 hope that as a result of his having moved this amendment the Australian electorate will appreciate that the alternative government has altered its very nature - its approach to democracy. I believe that in doing so the Labor Party has imported into its structure practices from overseas that are not acceptable in Australia. 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. From his many years of experience in Government does he agree that matters concerning Australian foreign and defence policies are best decided with balanced judgment? Is he aware that the proposed Vietnam Moratorium Campaign touches most intimately on Australian-Asian relations? Finally, can he recall any stage in his 35 years in this place when such unity has been secured involving left wingers, Communist Party members and leading members of the Australian Labor Party as is presently evident in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs and is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Evans. It concerns the clear, long term pattern of invasion of Cambodia by Vietminh and 
North Vietnamese forces attested to by both the present Prime Minister and the former Prime Minister of that country. Has the Minister received any protests concerning the invasion? Is he aware that the lack of protests from certain areas is merely the result of the application of the Brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty in Asia explicitly formulated by a leading member of this Parliament and supported in practice by the Leader of the Opposition? 
Tonight represents a very sad event in the politics of this country. Over a number of years honourable members on this side of the House have witnessed attempts by the Opposition to pursue a policy in Asia cloaked in an attitude of peace. We acknowledge that Opposition members sought an attitude of peace in a mistaken way. But nevertheless their policy, be it in regard to Vietnam, lndo-China or Malaysia was always cloaked as part of an attitude of searching for peace. Nobody will deny that. We said their attitude was wrong. The Opposition argued that it was not wrong. But now in searching for that attitude it has turned full circle. It is now in the position of not searching for an attitude of peace but of supporting, by its actions and by the adoption of the Brezhnev doctrine a Vietcong and North Vietnamese victory in Cambodia. That represents the real tragedy in Australian politics and members of the Opposition dare not deny it. They have even underpinned their present attitude by stating - a leading member of the Opposition has stated this - that this policy is now defensible because North Vietnam has a right to see that she has friendly countries on her borders. 
The Opposition and its principal spokesmen on foreign affairs have imported into their attitudes an adaptation of the Brezhnev doctrine on Asia, and any country such as Australia and any government such as this Government that would look at such an alteration as that and not be concerned about it would be recreant to its duty if it did not make these things known to the Australian public. But then we look a little further to see how this has come about. It has come about in a number of ways. The first example of this convolution of policy occurred a fortnight ago when the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  proposed that the sitting times of this House should be altered to serve acts of civil disobedience on the part of members of the Opposition. If honourable members opposite have had any experience in the Labor movement or know its history they will know that the Australian Labor Party in the past - the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  knows this - under leaders such as Theodore, Curtin, Chifley and Ryan never made its activities in this place or in any Parliament subservient to self confessed acts of civil disobedience. That represents real change in the attitude of the ALP in this place. 
But then we look further to see why this has happened. It has happened for a number of reasons. Some of the reasons are obvious when we look at the nature of the organisation associated with the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. Evidence has been adduced in this place to show that there is unity in purpose, and unity in action between lead:ng members of the Opposition, in fact the leading member of the Opposition, and bodies containing a significant number of Communists organising at the top. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  produced evidence tonight concerning the activities of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in Queensland. That accusation has never been refuted because it cannot be refuted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)The honourable member for Lilley should not refer to the subject matter that was mentioned by the honourable member for Griffith when  Mr Speaker  gave his ruling. 1 understand also that the honourable member for Griffith made further comment later on in his speech. But I suggest that the honourable member for Lilley should not refer to the subject matter that was being mentioned earlier when  Mr Speaker  gave a ruling on a point of order. 
I think that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has misunderstood the accusation made by the honourable member for Griffith and that he has in turn misunderstood the application of his own leader's explanation. The honourable member for Griffith had produced clear evidence to indicate that the Leader of the Opposition had attended a meeting organised by a number of unions affiliated with the Queensland Trades and Labor Council. The co-ordinator of that committee was a Communist from Queensland,  Mr Hugh  Hamilton. At that meeting the Leader of the Opposition indicated that he offered support to the activity of this meeting. That evidence has never been controverted and in fact the evidence has been made perfectly clear from perusing the minutes of the Vietnam Moratorium Co-ordinating Committee meetings of 25th March 1970 and 12th March 1970. The Co-ordinating Committee, which attests to the accuracy of my statement, comprises as members of the steering committee the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Senator Keeffe. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Chair is not in a position to decide on the subject matter being mentioned by the honourable member for Lilley. 
I attest to the accuracy of these minutes. The honourable member for Capricornia also knows that they are accurate. Their accuracy would be attested to very readily by prominent members of his own Party in Queensland including the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party.  Senator Keeffe,  and  Senator Georges,  none of whom has seen fit to deny this fact because they know that what I say is perfectly correct. The documents are clear and do not allow of equivocation. 
We go a little further. The nature of the Opposition Party and its policies has altered because the nature of its associations has altered. Traditionally there has been a stricture from 1928 until the present day upon members of the Opposition Party associating in unity of action with Communists in the formulation and development of policy and the pursuance of policy in public places. Those strictures have been broken by members of the Opposition. They have been broken by members on the front bench of the Opposition and. for the first time in the history of a leader of the Australian Labor Party, the Leader of the Opposition has been involved in this up to his neck. He has never seen fit to deny it. So for those reasons we are concerned with the nature of the policies which have been developed by the Opposition. 
We are concerned with the Opposition's application of its own Brezhnev doctrine to Asia but, above all, we are particularly sad to see that the Opposition, from having been a peace party in the past, has made a full turn to become a pacifist party and has now adopted a clear policy of favouring aggression in Cambodia under a doctrine which was itself responsible for the subversion of Czechoslovakia. For those things to happen to the alternative government in any country, but particularly in a small country situated in Asia, forbodes the greatest danger if the Party concerned ever come to power.It indicates quite clearly the way in which that Party's own policy decisions would be made at the highest level were a tragedy to occur and it did in fact become the government of this country. 
The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  has given us an interesting treatise upon the Gladstone power station agreement and as part of his treatise he has developed the philosphy of the Australian Labor Party concerning development. A little later I shall deal with some of the propositions he put concerning the revolving development fund and the support of that fund. I shall have something to say concerning the Labor Party's attitude to interest rates. The honourable member read lengthy quotations from some economic journals concerning development, which quotations I suggest he did not quite understand. If he read again the quotations which he gave he would come to the conclusion that they do not mean quite what he would like them to mean. 1 suggest that if somebody helps him with a speech in the future, he should make sure that that person goes to the authorities which would be most helpful. As the honourable member for Lang now sits on the front bench opposite, that may be a significant line for him to follow in future. 
The Gladstone Power Station Agreement Bill is concerned with the giant power station to be erected in the vicinity of Gladstone and for which the Commonwealth has pledged up to nearly 50% of the finance by way of loans. It has pledged 80/155ths of the finance, which is near enough to 50%. This money has been provided under certain conditions. We ought to direct our minds to these conditions a little later. Before doing so all of us must appreciate, above all, that this power station will become part of the economic complex in Australia. It will become part of the developmental and industrial complex of Australia. I suggest that we ought to ask these questions: Firstly, what are the economic principles involved which enable this project to proceed? Secondly, what is the aim of this project? Thirdly, will this project accomplish the aims which we seek? 
I suggest that these 3 questions are appropriate to this debate. Of all the power stations developed in this country in recent years this one is concerned rather preeminently with 2 of the vital supports of the Australian economy. They are the development of the balance of trade in our favour and the maintenance of a high rate of appropriate capital inflow in Australia's favour. 1 would like to direct attention to these 2 aspects. As we know from looking at the most recent balance of payment statistics, in recent quarters the balance of trade has been in Australia's favour. In September last it was $56m in our favour; in December it was $77m in our favour; for the March quarter it was in our favour to the extent of SI 64m. But we know that over an entire series of quarters in previous years the balance of trade has not always been in our favour. Therefore any project designed to enable exports to occur, which would not otherwise have been possible, is beneficial to the country. Therefore this power station, more than any other power station which has received Commonwealth support in recent years, is going to benefit Australia. 
Everybody is delighted about this but we must go a little further. We see from the balance of payments statistics that Australia has run into some difficulties with capital inflow. Over those same quarters capital inflow has decreased very markedly. People must appreciate that the present level of capital inflow is not adequate. This applies particularly to members of the Opposition who have sought always to place strictures upon capital inflow. What do we do about this? What relationship have these factors to the power station being developed in the Gladstone region? They have a great deal of relationship. The development of a power station in that region will act as an attraction to overseas capital and this will bring about a capital inflow which would not have occurred otherwise. If this power station is to generate power at a cost of between .3c and 4c per unit this can come about only with the involvement of a high load factor. Demand for power and the high load factor arise only as a result of a high rate of overseas capital investment in industries such as the alkali industry and the aluminium industry. Such industries will make it possible to achieve that load factor. 
This is where we come to the basic difference between the philosophy of the Opposition and that of the Government. Without this high rate of capital inflow it would not be possible to establish this power station. 
It is not my intention to chase the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  through some of his perambulations about balance of trade statistics; nor is it my intention to chase him through some of his quaint interpretations of capital inflow, its significance to this country and the significance of the present decline in real capital inflow to this country. I do not intend to chase him through those data, but I would make 2 comments upon his speech. I would suggest that when he refers to the mining industry he may reflect that the amount of capital required in any industry, mining as well as others, varies very much according to the maturity of the industry. If one doss a time series of the capital requirements of any industry one will find that that has always been a most important characteristtic of the industry. If the honourable member for Lalor would examine that principle before he makes some strictures upon mining in various parts of this country, he may come to a different conclusion. 
The second comment which I would make upon his interpretation of capital flow and on balance of trade statistics is this: It is perfectly clear what is the source from which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  over the years has obtained his own interpretation of these matters. It is a fact that the error of one member of the Opposition has been reflected in the writings of the other member of the Opposition, both of whom are on the front bench. But if I may make a third comment on the speech of the honourable member for Lalor it is this: It was a speech on the motion for the second reading of the Bill that dealt very little with the Australian Industry Development Corporation which is the matter we are now discussing. Almost half of his speech covered matters that would have been better reserved for the Committee stage of the Bill. Of course, while he sought to immerse himself in some of the intimate details of the Bill, it merely indicated that the principles which animate the honourable member for Lalor are principles which he finds difficulty in applying in depth, and so he ran out of time in applying them. 
The aims of this Bill are perfectly clear. The aims are to raise the amount of Australian equity in enterprises operating in this country, to raise the amount of Australian equity in enterprises directed especially towards the export field, and to raise that amount of equity by fixed interest borrowing overseas. But basically the aim of the Corporation which is acceptable economically as well as socially is to raise the amount of Australian equity, and any decent Aus- tralian would support those kinds of aims. But there are different paths to be traversed in order to achieve those aims. Every time the Budget is presented in this House the Opposition says that it has an aim similar to that of the Government with respect to the Budget. It says that it is concerned with economic stability, economic welfare, proper uses of resources and, of course, the welfare of the whole country in terms of defence. The Government also says that. At every election time similar kinds of aims drop from the mouths of various members. The paths to be pursued in achieving those aims are vastly different. It is precisely in relation to those paths that I want to direct a few of my own comments this evening. 
I refer to the speech made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  Much of the Minister's case depended upon this statement in his speech: 
We face a growing burden of income remitted abroad. Income remitted overseas by companies in Australia has in 5 years risen from 8.3% to 10.5% of our export earnings. 
I regard that statement as providing a most significant reason for the establishment of the Corporation. It is a little disturbing to find on analysing the data of income remitted abroad by Australian companies as a proportion of Australian export earnings that the figures are otherwise. I suggest that the figure has not risen in 5 years from 8.3% to 10.5% but rather that it has risen to only 8.6%. There is a substantial difference. In fact the figure has not risen to that level in 5 years. It has risen from 6.6% to 8.7%, not in 5 years, but from 1958-59 to 1968-69. This vital difference in the interpretation of the basic data must give rise to some doubts about the institutions which are designed to increase Australia's equity. 
If one were to go a little further and subtract from the income and dividends remitted abroad the interest on fixed interest borrowing overseas by institutions, the income remitted abroad would be a great deal less. It is known that I hold a somewhat different view on this matter from the Minister for Trade and Industry. I respect the Minister very highly, but there is a difference in our interpretation of the basic data. For that reason I have reached a different conclusion as to the need for the Corporation. One then has to look a little further at the background against which the Corporation is to be developed. Whether we like it or not, we do not generate sufficient of our own resources for reinvestment in this country. One can complain about capital inflow but one can thank God that the capital inflow has occurred, because without it the standard of living would be far lower than it is today and it would be increasing far more slowly than it is today. 
The honourable member would not ever recognise a principle. Sometimes principles are important in examining a corporation. If one examines the capital inflow that is involved here one finds that the background to the development of the Corporation is this: Over the last 3 quarters, that is from the quarter ended in September to the quarter ended in March, capital inflow to thi.; country has dropped more than in any similar period for almost a decade. We are in a position where capital inflow has declined very seriously. One just has to refer to the figures for the past few years to illustrate the point. For the appropriate 3 quarters of 1969-70 the capital inflow was $307m. In 1968-69 it was $9.1 6m, and for the year before that, 1967-68, it was $870m. 1 am unable to find another situation where the decline has been so great in such a short period of time. We are being saved to a great extent by the improvement in our balance of trade, for which we have to be very grateful to the Minister. One has also to recognise the continued dependence upon capital inflow. Because of my interpretation of the background of the Bill I have arrived at somewhat different conclusions from the Minister. 
The precise reason for which the Corporation is being set up is as the Minister stated clearly on page 8 of his speech. H? said: tn what I have said I speak not to criticise foreign companies- 
And he did not - but to point out the circumstances which indicate a lack in Australia of the means for Australian companies to marshal adequate financial resources for major expansion and development under Australian ownership. 
There is a clear statement of fact. There is a clear forshadowing of a gap in financial institutions. A little later on the Minister said:  lt will assist- 
That is, the Corporation -  in cases where the development would otherwise not take place, or would otherwise bc possible only with undue loss of ownership and control to overseas.  1 have not been able to determine what are the cases for borrowing overseas at unsubsidised rates by efficient and economic Australian industries that have been presented to appropriate institutions and have been rejected. The Corporation depends upon such cases. To find out the cases involved I have searched through the data concerning many of the prominent cases such as Gove and Robe River. 1 have not been able to find the cases upon which such a corporation has to depend for its conception and its birth. Surely that is the vital ingredient in any institution that is to be developed. Yet I have not been able to find it. There must be a perceptible unsatisfied. 
If one goes a little further one finds that a financial institution is being developed. I know that the Minister has given much consideration to this factor, but I am concerned about a financial institution being developed which may lend widely and be outside the system of credit control in this country. What I am saying should appeal to many members of the Opposition. I am in favour of the maximum control of credit in this country one way or another through the banking system and through the Reserve Bank. This is the only way in which interest rates can be kept down reasonably well over a long period of time, lt is the only way in which monetary policy can bc made to serve, as it ought to serve, basic economic policy  3nd  doctrine. 
If the honourable member for Sydney had listened he would have realised that it was the growth of hire purchase companies that was the unstated premise of my statement. He should appreciate that. I am concerned that in the statement on the Corporation Opposition members, and in particular the honourable member for Lalor, made no reference to  the fact that a body is being developed, which could become a very substantial body, to lie outside the system of credit control - I do not like using that expression - of this nation. The effect on interest rates in that position can be disastrous. We know the effect of fringe institutions in the past and we do not want to duplicate that position unnecessarily in the future. I know that the Minister is aware of this problem and that he will take cognisance of it at the appropriate time. 
Let me now refer to the institution that has been set up. Any institution that is set up derives from some important principles when it is established to operate in what is a private enterprise economy. So this institution has also to depend on private enterprise economy and it has to operate under those circumstances. First of all I would have liked for it to have been a bank for those reasons. Secondly I would have liked this institution to have operated under similar circumstances to those under which comparable institutions operate within the economy. Thirteen years ago - a long time before I came to this place - the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  was instrumental with others in seeing that those principles were carried through to the operation of the Reserve Bank. He pl'ayed a great part in the battle  of 1956 and 1957. I think that any Government-backed corporation or institution operating within the economy should operate on certain principles. 
I would consult your mentor about your economics if I were you. 
Over a number of years an arrangement was developed whereby, for example, Trans-Australia Airlines operated in competition with comparable organisations in the field of aircraft transport. A return was required on the capital which supported TAA. A rate of return  is  struck from year to year and this is done so that TAA would not have an unfair advantage over its competitors. 
If you only knew, eVen the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has travelled with Ansett-ANA from time to time, I understand. These were important principles that needed to be supported. A rate of interest was struck so that TAA would not have any undue advantage over competitors such as Ansett-ANA. If we go a little further and look at the operations of the Australian National Line, we see that a similar principle has been developed there. A rate of interest is struck on the funds appropriated and a return has been required in recent years. With respect to the Postmaster-General's Department a similar principle has been supported. The principle has been repeated with respect to the Commonweal'th Banking Corporation. The basic principle is the same but i:s application is a little different. That Corporation has to operate under exactly the same conditions as those under which its competitors have to operate. 
Those principles do not apply to this Corporation. The principles concerning the rate of return on capital awarded are ignored. Of course, if they are ignored one would have expected that this body, if it was not to have a rate of return on the capital employed, would have become an actual or effective lender of last resort. Either of these 2 principles should have applied. I am sorry to see in th:s Bill that neither of those principles is implemented. I would like to see them implemented. There was 1 other point in the Bill which governs the operation of the Corporation. I know the Minister is very sensitive to this point and will take it into consideration. As the Minister for Trade and Industry indicated in his speech, this Bill will be concerned especially with export oriented industries. That is its special concern. At present there is a distinction between that statement and some of the ingredients of the Bill. We are concerned always to raise our balance of trade in our favour. Australia has depended on its trade and its external trading  relations  as a vital engine to its economy more than many other countries have. So I would hope that  in the course of the Committee stage those matters might be examined and parts of this Bill brought into conformity with the second reading speech. I am sure it can be done. 
I think it can be reasonably well established that a body is being set up which is similar to bodies already operating in the field. I will compare it principally with the Australian Resources Development Bank. The Corporation is concerned with overseas equity, export income, 1 hope, and the pursuit of high overseas equity by means of fixed interest borrowing abroad. When one examines the objectives of the Australian Resources Development Bank one finds that there are 6 objectives. T will read 2 of them to the House. The first is: 
To borrow or to raise overseas Funds in the fixed interest category on the most favourable terms possible. 
There is no difference between the aims of the Corporation and the Bank in this respect. The second objective is: 
To require a substantial Australian interest in ventures finance. 
There is a difference in words but a clear confluence of intentions. What has to be demonstrated then is that when this Corporation is being set up something has been found wanting in, for example, the Australian Resources Development Bank. One inevitably arrives at that conclusion. We ask: Have such charges or comments been directed to the Australian Resources Development Bank? They have. A number of comments have been made that in its own fixed interest borrowing abroad the Bank has not pursued through its shareholders, the trading banks of Australia, a strong enough policy, ft has not borrowed sufficient abroad. For example, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was asked a question on a television programme in Melbourne on 12th April concerning this factor. He said, concerning the Bank:  lt has mobilised some $250m or something of that kind but ii has virtually borrowed nothing from overseas at all. It may be $2m or $3m now but it is chicken feed. It hasn't pragmatically done what this Corporation is set up to try and do. 
What is the explanation up to that time or a little before that time for the Bank not having borrowed much fixed interest funds abroad? Why? For 2 reasons. For most of the period that the Bank has been in existence interest rates overseas have been disastrously high. They have been so high that Australian industry requiring loans abroad in order to main its equity was not willing to pay the rates. It is presumed that the rates are not to be subsidised. But there was something in addition to this. Interest rates in this country were very low. They are still low, but they were much lower during that period than they are now. So the gap between the 2 rates was the reason for which there was an acute disincentive in Australia for industry to borrow money abroad through the Australian Resources Development Bank at unsubsidised rates. 
But what has happened, almost within recent months, is that interest rates abroad have declined greatly. The Euro dollar rates on the various markets, interbank markets, 3-month rolling fund markets and 7-day funds have all declined very much. But Australian interest rates have gone up also. This has meant that from 2 angles the gap was narrowed between rates here and rates overseas. The disincentive effect was considerably lessened and once the disincentive effect, on a comparison of the 2 rates, was lessened Australian industry found that it was willing to pay some of the rates which applied overseas. So within recent weeks - within the last 6 or 7 weeks - we have had more than $30m raised overseas for Australian industry in fixed interest borrowing of the type to which the Industry Development Corporation is devoted. In these circumstances Australian industry was willing to pay the rates and has thereby been enabled to preserve and, in many cases, to increase the proportion of Australian equity in enterprises. I think it would be a little unfair to criticise industry because it was borrowing in a position of low interest rates, being unwilling to pay high rates overseas, and then to praise it when it is borrowing in a position of higher rates in Australia and is willing to pay rates overseas that had declined somewhat. Reasons for criticism of the Australian Resources Development Bank during the period of its. operation from March 1968 to the present time can be a little unfair. 
Some other parts of the Bill cause me some concern. I instance clause 8. sub-clause (6.). I know other honourable members are concerned about this provision. Some other sections of the Bill may have to be examined in some detail, and I know .that they will be examined in detail. 
I do not think the honourable member for Riverina understands the Bill. 
Clause 8, subclause (6.). I have tried in this second reading speech merely to deal with the principles appropriate to this body. I have not sought to make this a Committee stage speech because it is not appropriate to the body. I am concerned basically that this Corporation is not a bank. I think that there is protection to the Australian community in the preservation, with appropriate interest rates, of the banks. I am interested to note that the Opposition has abandoned some of its basic economic dogma in not recognising that fact. I am somewhat concerned about the criteria for lending which are established by the body. This will be examined. I think it is an unnecessary undermining of the banking system, and the competition of the banking system, at appropriate interest rates, deserves to be preserved for all Australians. 
The honourable member for St George has been overseas and he would know that the interest rates that would apply to appropriate loans overseas would not be recognisable in Australia. I can imagine that for various reasons he decided to retreat back home. There is one other matter which I should like to mention. The aims of the Australian Industry Development Corporation are worthwhile and do need support. The basic criteria on which criticism of income remitted abroad are based need re-examination. There are great gaps in the statistical data. Some of the gaps in the statistical data can be responsible for developing the Corporation which I would not have developed myself but which, of course, quite obviously is going to be supported in this House. 
Finally I would say that when one rejects an existing institution good reasons have to be found for that rejection. Good reasons have hot been found for that rejection. The Australian Resources Development Bank is operating in this field. It has enabled 
Australian equity in many enterprises to rise far more than it would otherwise have risen. For these reasons it ought to be applauded. I am a little concerned that the Corporation, in its operations, will quite obviously duplicate the function of the Resources Development Bank. It will clearly overlap the operations of that body at a time when its operations have not been shown to be deficient and when, in fact, the criticisms of that body have been shown to be baseless and dependent on incorrect and wrongful economic data. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
There is no motion presented to a parliament that is of greater significance than a motion involving want of confidence in the Government. That position pertains particularly in this case because the House is fairly evenly divided. On other days the burden of conscience and the burden of a judgment related to a conscience would not fall so heavily upon people. It falls a little more heavily upon us on this occasion because the House is fairly evenly divided. A motion which is to be submitted to this Parliament and which suggests that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House has to be considered extremely deeply before one decides to vote. I do not intend to go into the details of the arguments that have been produced today. Some of the arguments have been produced very loyally by Ministers in this Government. Some very cute distinctions have been drawn. One has to admire the minds that have been able to draw those cute distinctions. Whether they are distinctions in truth or distinctions born of neccesity, I do not know. I do not want to infer which one of those they happen to be. 
One or two simple points run through this debate and cannot be ignored. One was the relations between a Minister representing the Government and the States in the matter of off-shore mining legislation. Another was the nature of the discussions which were appropriate to legislation of a type which was foreshadowed. The foreshadowing of the legislation is not important. It is the nature of the relations between the Commonwealth and the States that is important. That is the only way in which I would look at this matter. It has been said, for example, that meetings had occurred between a Commonwealth Minister and the Ministers for Mines of the State at which undertakings were required for a conference and that this undertaking had some relationship to proposed legislation. To suggest that the undertaking for a conference on proposed legislation is immaterial, whether the conference is to be held before or after the legislation is introduced, is an absurd interpretation. One could not really support such a position. It is so absurd that no Minister could run his department on such a basis, no person could look after a family on such a basis, and no person could have relations with others in a community on such a basis. It is to be understood, I think, that a conference was to be held before the proposed legislation, not after that legislation. I am reinforced in this understanding by the fact that of 8 Ministers of the Crown throughout Australia at such a conference 7 considered that that was the interpretation. Surely that is not to be ignored? These are 7 men of at least some probity. Such an attitude is not to be ignored. 
I come to the third point. It is clear that a moral obligation existed concerning conferences before the proposed legislation. The Commonwealth Government recognised a moral obligation. It recognised a moral obligation impliedly because the Prime Minister said in his speech earlier today that the Minerals Council was not so informed, but each individual member of the Council was. Somewhere along the line it was recognised that a moral obligation to confer was appropriate. The fact is that that obligation was not kept. The minutes of the meeting of the State Ministers for Mines held in the Premier's office in Melbourne on 13th March indicated that that moral obligation was ignored. I do not think honourable members can ignore that position. One arrives at the conclusion that the consequence of this is that promises were not kept. The judgment of men of probity, of intelligence and of balance also is that promises were not kept. I believe so too. It is obvious that the honourable member for Farrer believes this. I know he feels so virtuous this afternoon. So many honourable members on the Opposition side of the House and so many honourable members on this side of the House have ascribed to him all kinds of virtue before, proceeding to denigrate his judgment; but I happen to believe that his judgment was correct and balanced. If one may refer to the virtue ascribed to the honourable member, his judgment was also the judgment of an intelligent virtuous man. So without equivocation I think that the honourable member for Farrer was correct and is correct. 
If the Leader of the Opposition will restrain himself for one moment he may obtain a reward. Let us go a little further with this matter. This motion then is directed to that situation, and in being directed to that situation one sees it for what it is. If I may read the motion and have a look at some parts of it which have significance and some which do not: 
That the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development, acting for and on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, that there would be further consultation with the States before the Commonwealth Government introduced any legislation on the territorial sea and continental shelf. 
A motion involving a want of confidence has substance of itself, but it also has great substance in its consequences. It is the consequences of that motion that one has to consider very deeply. There are honourable members in this House who can be dreadfully concerned about the affairs of government. There can be members in this House who are concerned at some of the affairs of government and who have not refrained from expressing this in such manner in appropriate places. There are members who have done this - and they are not on the Opposition side. 
But a motion of a want of confidence has consequences that are extremely grave. No matter how truthful are the statements of the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  no matter how correct they are, no matter how balanced his judgment is, I find in looking at the consequences of supporting this motion of a want of confidence, that those consequences themselves are too dreadful to support and without drawing acute distinctions- 
If you are going to talk about twisting you have a great history of it. You should be an expert. Having watched your performance here over a period of time I say you should be an expert in recognising it when it does not exist in others. So I find myself in the position - even being greatly concerned about some affairs - that I am unable to support this motion of a want of confidence and I intend to vote accordingly. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (1.) insert the following subclause: (1a.) the Corporation shall, so far as it is reasonably practicable for it to do so, perform its functions with a view to securing an improvement in the balance of Australia's external trading operations.' 
I move this amendment for a number of reasons, the first being to relate the activities of the Corporation to the activities which were set out in the speech of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  The burden of the Minister's second reading speech at page 1600 of Hansard is very clear; it is that the principal functions of the Corporation are to be related to external trading activities.In other words, in those cases where a judgment is required as to the industry which is going to receive assistance from the Corporation, those industries whose activities will be conducive to an improvement in Australia's external trading plans will receive an advantage. At that page the Minister said of the Corporation: 
It will have as a clear objective to facilitate this industrial development in ways which will promote trade both internationally and between the States. It must aim especially at expanding exports on a world-competitive basis, and enhancing our long term balance of payments position. It must seek to enable Australian industry to conserve our foreign exchange by competing with imports without recourse to high tariff barriers. 
In other words, the principal industries which will receive assistance from the Corporation will clearly be those industries which are operating in some kind of export parity position. They are not industries which are receiving a great deal of protection. They are not industries which would be uneconomic were they to operate other than behind a high tariff barrier or a high protective barrier of some kind or another. They are industries which are conducive to improving the trading position of this country. I would say that insofar as one looks at sub-clauses (1.) and (2.) of clause 6. of the Bill, the emphasis on the functions to which the Corporation is devoted is not clear. Sub-clause (2.) indicates that the Corporation shall perform its functions in 4 different ways. These of course are related to the nature of the Constitution. But the manner in which the Corporation is to operate and the nature of the industries to which it may give assistance differ from those stated by the Minister for Trade and Industry in his second reading speech. It is in order that this requirement to improve the balance of trade be a pre-eminent condition so far as the activities of the Corporation are concerned that J have moved this amendment. We know clearly enough that the balance of trade and, in another sense, the balance of payments have been the most difficult and most ephemera] parts of Australia's economic relations for very many years. For many years this country operated under almost a siege economy. It operated in a cyclical sense merely because of the problems concerned with our balance of trade. It is in order to give the activities of the Corporation that emphasis which is not presently apparent in the Bill that I move this amendment. I will not say any more, as it is getting late and as divisions obviously will take a great deal of time to count. I therefore move that the proposed new sub-clause be inserted. 
 I move: 
After sub-clause (1.) insert the following subclause: 
*(1a.) In the performance of its functions, the Corporation shall have regard to the current monetary policies of the Commonwealth and, in relation to the provision of assistance in a particular case, to the urgency of the need for that assistance and the importance of that assistance to the attainment of objects for which the Corporation is established.'. 
The amendment is a very qualified one and I should hope that the last  3  or  4  lines of the amendment do not qualify out of existence provision for the Corporation to have regard to the current monetary policies of the Commonwealth. We are all aware, within recent years, of the increasing difficulties that exist in any system where monetary policy is to have a real effect, where money is to retain its value and where interest rates are to be at appropriate levels, of having too great a proportion of activities lying outside those fields for which there is some responsibility. This has been given significant point in the last report of the Australian Finance Conference. On page 2 of its report is a table which only confirms the existence of what we have known to have been the trend for a great number of years. There it is made perfectly clear that of the total estimated demand in Australia for what are known in this table as receivables, or for what are often judged to be factors operating on the credit market, the areas in which there is some responsibility for interest rates have decreased. For example, in the year from June 1968 to June 1969, the trading banks' responsibility for the credit market declined from 33.8% to 22.8%, but the responsibilities of the finance companies - the finance institutions, the fringe banking institutions - have shown a rise consistent with the rise they have shown over a great number of years. 1 am concerned that as this Corporation is clearly not to operate within the banking system, and as it will not be subject in its operations to banking control, it should at least have some due regard to monetary policy. Monetary policy, for the purpose of this amendment, is defined not in the narrow sense of current physical monetary obligations or output of the Commonwealth, but in the totality of quantitative monetary policies operating within the Commonwealth. I refer to such matters as total quantitative aspects of monetary movement, the total volume of money available, the variations in that movement, the rate of circulation of that money and so on. J would hope that the Corporation in its activities would not find itself in conflict with the current trend in monetary policies defined in that way. I would disagree with the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  on this point. There is an institution which has somewhat parallel activities to the Corporation, and that is the Australian Resources Development Bank. That bank in its operations is required not to operate contrary to or in conflict with current monetary policy of the Reserve Bank of Australia. If the Corporation were to operate in clear conflict with current monetary policy, if it were to operate out of phase with that policy, the matter of keeping interest rates on an acceptable level would be made unduly difficult. 
If I may give an example: At the present time it is perfectly clear that there is a very tight monetary policy in this country, and that tight policy is being worked through the banking system. This policy has operated for some time, lt operated to a certain extent last year, and it is operating in a far tighter and more stringent way at the present time, and has done over the last 6 or 7 weeks. The present operations of that policy are having a real and clearly different effect in a quantitative manner on the total loans, advances and so on being made available in the community than would have been the case had such a policy not been operating. For example, if one consults the weekly statement on central banking business which is published by the Reserve Bank of Australia, and examines from the beginning of April to the present time the movements in the types of loans, advances and other assets for which banks are responsible, one would find that the movements have declined, not a great deal, but significantly. If in that situation a body such as this corporation were to lend in the market, as it will be able to do in a very significant manner, it could run counter to the current practice of monetary policy. In order to neutralise that effect monetary policy would have to be tougher, interest rates would have to be higher, or the quantitative withdrawing of money in the community might have to be more stringent. We know this. So it is in order to ensure that the operations of this Corporation will not be contrary to monetary policy that I have moved this amendment. I hope that the amendment will be accepted. 
I am actually surprised in some ways that the Opposition did not seek to move an amendment of the kind I have proposed, as it is in conformity with an economic doctrine which it has practised for a number of years. We do not take it to the extremes to which the Opposition has taken its doctrine, but I would hope that, as I have taken that doctrine as far as it ought to be taken on this occasion, in a sensible manner, the Opposition will support the amendment. I hope, of course, that the Government will support it. I think it has value and I think it should be supported. But there is one other matter in relation to it which I would like to mention. This concerns the requirement for the Corporation to have an annual report. If the operations of Commonwealth monetary policy are to have any significant effect upon the phasing of operations of this Corporation details of its activities will have to be provided more often than once a year. We know very well that monetary policy can change radically over a period of 12 months, monetary policy being defined in the way in which 1 have defined it. So if we are to see that its operations are not out of phase with the current practice in the rest of the community, I think the Minister will agree there has to be some kind of check, some kind of data and statistics on what the Corporation is doing, provided if possible quarterly, certainly half yearly, but not yearly if we are to make this Corporation work. Having made that definition of monetary policy I hope the Government will accept the amendment. 
I want to say a word or two in very friendly defence. I think there is a difference of opinion concerning the proposed amendment which is not covered by clause 7(5.). That clause relates to the activities of the Corporation in respect of borrowing, especially within Australia. Basically the clause says that the total amount of borrowing on the Australian market in any period of 12 months shall be determined by the Reserve Bank. But it is also clear from the clause and from statements of the Minister in respect of other clauses that this is to be a minority of the support for the Corporation. Therefore, if there is to be a Reserve Bunk interest in the activities of the Corporation it is to be an interest in a part of the Corporation that is a very small proportion of its support. Because it is a small proportion it will not have the kind of effect I envisage in the proposed sub-clause. After all, if the Corporation is to do all the things that have been projected for it to do, if it is to enable equity to be retained al a far higher level in so many industries than is attainable at the moment, it is going to be pretty big cheese - it is going to be a pretty big show. If it is to be as large as this we want to have some kind of interest in the range of its activities. lt is for these reasons, and because clause 7(5.) does not cover the kind of position I have indicated, that this amendment is put forward. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The fate which the 2 amendments which I propose will suffer may not be as pleasant as the fate other amendments have suffered up to the moment. Firstly. I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (2.) add 'and that the company has made every reasonable attempt to secure assistance at appropriate rates from banking or financial institutions usually engaged in such type of arrangements and without success'. 
In other words, I hope to insert in the Bill - 1 feel that I will be unsuccessful - a provision whereby the Corporation shall be in the nature of a lender of last resort. In this respect I have in mind provisions which have been inserted in other financial measures which have been introduced in this chamber. I refer specifically to the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia. There are a number of reasons why the provisions which relate to the Development Bank cannot be duplicated here. If it is argued, for example, that one ought not to require that an appropriate borrower has shopped around in all kinds of institutions one could change the plural to the singular and thereby substitute the word 'institution'. The legislation could be changed to provide that the attempt to secure assistance should bc an attempt to secure assistance from institutions within Australia. After all, the bodies which will be approaching this Corporation will be, from their very nature, bodies which will be unable to operate on the world market. That is almost provided by definition - and, almost by definition, it covers all of Australian industry. So it would be quite simple to ensure that such a provision shall apply. 
I also suggest that another amendment should be moved. 1 will speak to it in very strong terms. Sub-clause (3.) (c) of clause 8 provides that the Corporation shall endeavour to avoid becoming or remaining in a position where it is able to control or manage the affairs of a company to which it provides assistance. Sub-clause (3.) (d), which 1 propose in my amendment, merely intends to make it perfectly clear. 1 move: 
Al the end of sub-clause (3.) add the following paragraph: 
for the purpose of the preceding paragraph the Corporation shall be deemed to be in a position where it is able to control the affairs of a company if it holds more than fifteen per cent of the issued capital of the company except where the equity acquired by the Corporation is in the nature of bridging finance.'. 
I think that this is a very important provision which cannot be ignored, lt is important for this reason: We have made it mandatory in a number of fields - for example, in radio and television stations - that an equity holder ought not to hold more than 15% of the equity in such activities. As the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has reminded me, this requirement came about years ago when a London newspaper was suspected of trying to buy into a large Australian radio network. Provision was written into the Broadcasting and Television Act at the time that there shall be no greater than 15% equity in such a body. In other words, it was judged that a 15% equity would give a degree of control which would be real and substantial. Th s has been perpetuated in other fields. I suggest that if sub-clause (3.) (c) of clause 8 is to have any meaning the proposed sub-clause (3.) (d) ought to be added. A meaning ought to be given to the maximum amount of equity which the Corporation shall acquire in any body. In other words, if the Corporation is able to acquire any amount of equity, irrespective of whether it supplies bridging finance or otherwise, one has to doubt, and doubt very sincerely, whether clause 8 (3.) (c) has any meaning. The clause means that the Corporation 'shall endeavour1 not to assume or to have a controlling interest in any company. I doubt that the clause has any meaning. 
This point lies at the heart of the case. We chose 15%. One could have chosen 10%. A statement has been made by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in relation to the Brisbane Permanent Banking Co., now the Queensland Bank, to the effect that one shareholder is not to acquire more than 10% interest. It has been foreshadowed that the Banking Act will be amended so that one shareholder cannot acquire more than 10% of the equity in such a body. A figure of 10% was chosen because it is considered that that is a critical level, which would break down the traditional banking structure in an important credit and financial institution. In this amendment we are seeking a higher percentage. We chose 15%. We could go higher if the Corporation is to require for short periods a 20% or 25% equity when providing short term finance. Once that short period of time has elapsed, once the emergency requiring such a large amount of equity to be held has elapsed, then it should be understood that the equity would be brought down to a level such as that required in other important institutions operating in Australia. Those are the reasons why I moved the amendments and I hope that they will be accepted. 
I want to revert to the lender of last resort clause. If this body is to operate on equal terms with bodies operated by private enterprise, one of two requirements is appropriate, cither that it be a lender of last resort, or, that it be required to pay a return on its capital such as occurs in the case of Trans-Australia Airlines and the Australian National Shipping Line or that it should operate on exactly the same levels of activity required, for example, of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation in relation to the other banks. Either it is to be a lender of last resort or there should be a return on capital. Both propositions cannot be excluded. 
I return again to the suggested amendment requiring a maximum equity of 15%. This figure is appropriate. It is higher than that currently foreshadowed by the Treasury in relation to banks. Tt is a figure which allows a degree of control which is very substantial. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would know that Wheelwright, in writing his work in the late 1950s, selected the figure of 15% as being quite significant in relation to ability to control a corporation or company. That provision has been accepted in other fields. Therefore I think this amendment is reasonable. It allows sufficient flexibility for the Corporation to go to a higher figure in those areas where such action is required. If this proposed amendment is supported by the Government then it would give clause 8 (3.) (c) meaning which is not presently apparent. That paragraph states that the Corporation:  shall  endeavour  so far as practicable, to avoid becoming or remaining in a position where it is able to control or manage the affairs of a company to which it provides assistance. 
At present those words merely represent a pious aspiration. The amendment should be supported if clause 8 (3.) (c) is not to be nullified or neutralised. The amendment would give it meaning. Above all it emulates and supports a principle which has been acted upon on so many other occasions in Australia and has been adopted by this Parliament. 
Thursday, 21 May 1970 
Firstly, let me reply to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  and to the very friendly comments made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  When I first came to this place I was told by some acquaintances of the honourable member for Grayndler to beware of him on the occasions on which he pats people on the back and tells them that they are good fellows. I feel that I have been subject to that kind of pat on the back this evening. I was also intrigued by his concern with the word 'reasonable'. He said that it needed some definition. I suggest that 'reasonable' is a kind of word that is defined in the negative rather than in the positive and that the definition of it is to be found very readily and very easily in the honourable member for Graydler 
Now let me comment on one or two words from the Minister. I believe that these comments are appropriate. He mentioned that clause 8 (3.) (a) contained sufficient support for the proposition that the Corporation would be passive in its operation. He then said that clause 8 (3.) (c) made it perfectly clear that the Corporation did not desire to retain a controlling interest in any company to which it had given substantial assistance. I suggest that clause 8 (3.) (a) represents a nice aspiration but that there are no guidelines according to which that aspiration is to be judged or according to which it is to be applied. Clause 8 (3.) (c) indicates that the Corporation shall endeavour to avoid becoming or remaining in a position of having a controlling interest. We merely desire to make it clear, with a great deal of flexibility, where a controlling interest would end. I thought that in the amendment a maximum of flexibility was allowed. After all, the amendment would do 2 things. It would propose a fairly high proportion which was appropriate, namely, 15%  -  a proportion that is higher than that which is to be proposed by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in a later Bill to prevent Australian banks from being taken over by a shareholder with a large interest. 
Secondly, we looked at the occasions on which the Corporation would be required to obtain and retain a much higher proportion of equity than 15%. This can involve matters of seasonal finance, matters' of rollover finance for an organisation and cases in which short term support is needed. There are examples of this type of support in every Australian banking and financial institution. We utilised all of these examples to say that 15% was to be aimed at but that, if for those reasons- the provision of bridging finance of various types - that figure was to be exceeded, the Corporation should not thereby be debarred from engaging in its actviities and the. functions that are part of those activities. 
I believe very sincerely that the Minister has never answered that proposition. I suggest that he has rather ignored it. To answer it by saying: 'We do not want to do this. We do not want to make the Corporation  a  lender of last resort We do not want to require a return on its capital, which is the alternative, because we want to keep it at arm's length' is to use a nice choice of words, but I suggest that it is a choice of words without much meaning. It is a choice of words without meaning, such as the earlier choice of words when he said that the Corporation, in its capital, shall have 3 characteristics - the investment shall be noncontrolled, it shall be transitory and it shall be tapering. But these are 3 adjectives without a great deal of significance. They just remain said, and they do not appear in the Bill. They are not enshrined in any clause or any sub-clause and they can be ignored for reasons which themselves may be fairly transitory. If one says then that the Corporation is to be retained at arms length by not requiring it to be a lender of last resort or to secure a return on its capital and it is to be kept separate from government, I hope one reflects how the Corporation is to be appointed and its directors appointed. However, I do not want to enter into that part of the argument. Rather than the Corporation being at arms length, if these kinds of provisions are not written into the Act it can be rather succoured and coddled in its operations. That is the effect I fear on the Australian community. 
The honourable members for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  Grayndler and Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had some words to say. They suggested that they had become the battlers for competition and that we are the people who do not like competition. I found this a delightfully entrancing kind of proposition. They now want competition. If we look at their own structure and the way in which their decisions are made, they know that they have done everything over the years to preclude competition, especially with respect to their own positions. They would not know what competition is. All we say is that this Bill is to operate in a competitive system with neither advantage nor disadvantage. I would suggest at the moment that it will operate with a great deal of advantage compared to those institutions with which it is in competition, and it will be to their detriment. However, I return to the question of the 15%, which can be substantially upwards. The provisions in the amendment are much more generous than those that apply to other institutions which are concerned with broadcasting and television and to other organisations which will be concerned with amendments introduced in relation to the Queensland Bank. 
For the Government in both of those interests, 15%, and it is going to be 10% and no more in relation to the latter. This has been made clear by the Treasurer. If those provisions are applied in respect of those institutions I would expect that 15%, with a substantial amount above it, to be held in equity as part of bridging finance. This ought to be acceptable to the Government. I am a little surprised and a little disappointed that the Government does not accept the proposition, but I assure the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  that although I am surprised I thank them for having accepted other amendments. Amendments negatived. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 25a. - (1.) The Minister, with the concurrence of the Treasurer and after consultation with the Corporation - 
shall, not later than one month before the commencement of each financial year, determine the percentage of the capital of the Corporation that would represent a reasonable return to the Commonwealth fromthe operations of the Corporation in that financial year, and give notice in writing to the Corporation of the percentage so determined; and 
may, at any time during a financial year, by reason of a change in circumstances, by notice in writing to the Corporation, amend a determination under the last preceding paragraph. (2.) In performing their functions under the last preceding sub-section, the Minister and the Treasurer shall take into account, in addition to other relevant matters, the profits, in relation to capital employed, that have been and are expected to be, made by comparable financial institutions.'. 
My intention is merely to move the amendment. I do not intend to take it to the vote. I think that the argument which is appropriate to this amendment has been submitted previously. There are substantial and good reasons why it should be supported. I refer to the Australian National Airlines Bill of some years ago in which the former Prime Minister and the then Treasurer indicated that a return on the capital employed would be appropriate. In that respect I refer to Hansard of 1961. I do not want to amplify this reference. I had thought that the terms relating to a lender of last resort or a return on the capital were the alternatives. If one was to be rejected the other would be supported. If the Corporation was concerned with the nature of the economic society in which we operate I would have expected that both were not to be rejected. I fear they will be rejected but I propose the amendment for the consideration of the Committee. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, there were 2 intriguing features of the contribution by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and I wish to spend just a few. moments referring to the 2 features. The Leader of the Opposition has raised for discussion as a matter of public importance the relation of the Commonwealth Government to local government and semi-government authorities in this country. We had an attitude of decentralisation of power as a background to his speech. The intriguing feature about this is that the Leader of the most centralist Party in its own power distribution in the Anglo-Saxon world - except the Communist Party - would find the occasion appropriate to raise for discussion as a matter of public importance a subject concerning the fate, the existence and the welfare of] local government and semigovernment authorities. That is the first paradox. 
The second one is a little more intriguing. The Leader of the Opposition demonstrated his own version of history. He said that he would go back to the time of Disraeli. I always find it intriguing that a leader of a Labor Party would find it appropriate to go back to Disraeli, more specifically,  to  the days of the 1870s. We can only opine and hope that as a Leader of the Labor Party has has not adopted some of the social  predelictions of Disraeli and perhaps he will adopt similar imperialist policies. It was said that in the election of 1874 
Disraeli adopted the slogan - this was rendered in Latin;  1  am unable to do so - that 'sanitation is everything'. It was a slogan that, appealed to the .Leader of the Opposition. I ask: When did the Leader first adopt this slogan?  1  come back to  1968.  lt would be my hope that the Leader of the Opposition would not leave the House so readily. As I said,  1  take the position in  1968.  One knows the political difficulties that the Leader of the Opposition underwent in  1968.  It was in his speech during the Budget debate of that year that the Leader of the Opposition discovered that great mileage was to be made out of a concern with sewerage. We can go only a little bit further and say that perhaps like Disraeli, who was interested in his own Honours List, he had hopes of becoming a Privy Councillor. 
One or two other matters concerning the Opposition's attitude are worth comment. Clearly the Opposition shows an interest in local government and semi-government affairs in Australia - matters which are most distant from its concern. It shows least interest in those matters which are directly within its concern, its power and its authority. I intend to examine for a few moments the way in which the Opposition administers itself when it has authority in local affairs - when, for example, it has authority in terms of local councils in the great cities of Australia. Let me show how the Opposition manages its affairs in these circumstances. I will show that when the Labor Party has substantial power and authority in local affairs it raises rates and regressive charges more than any other body having authority in such affairs. 
Let me give an illustration of what  1  mean by referring to the situation on the east coast. The Brisbane City Council is responsible for the largest local authority area in Australia and it is run substantially by the Labor Party. In the last  5  years land rates in the Brisbane local authority area have been increased by  59%.  The increase has been exceeded by only one local authority area on the east coast of Australia. We might well ask ourselves who has raised rates more. Who has applied such regressive charges in a more vicious manner? Who has applied regressive charges that fall upon families, whether rich or poor, in a more indiscriminate manner? The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  is very interested in these  matters I can almost see him nodding his head in approval. 
The only local authorities which have increased these rates more indiscriminately and to a greater extent are Labor dominated councils in Sydney and Melbourne. Let us look at the situation in the local government areas of Liverpool. Blacktown and Sutherland. I will then turn to the situation in Melbourne. I know that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  is most tenderly interested in these matters. I know that he is awaiting this information with a great deal of interest. The Sunshine Council in Victoria is under very strong Labor influence. In the last  5  years it has increased rates by more than  60%.  These are the principles which the Party opposite implements in its administration of local authority affairs, lt increases those taxes and charges which are most regressive. It increases them in such a vicious manner as no other local authority in Australia would dare to copy. These are facts which it is impossible to refute. 
The Leader of the Opposition has expressed a great deal of admiration for State and local authority administration in some other countries. Honourable members will remember his reference recently to the situation in Canada. He said that we should copy Canada's administration of  central government and provincial government affairs. He said that in these matters Canada is the exemplar'. We find  ki  Can-ida a degree of inequality between Provinces in the federal system, which the Leader of the Opposition finds as his exemplar, which would not be tolerated for a "moment in Australia. We find degrees of distress and unemployment in the Provinces of Canada which no government in Australia would tolerate for a moment. Yet the Leader of the Opposition has claimed that the administration of central government and provincial government affairs in Canada is the exemplar upon which this Government should pattern its activities. As in some other matters, the most charitable explanation to make is that the Leader of the Opposition has made these comparisons more out of ignorance and good will than out of knowledge, but one cannot be the substitute for the other. 
I make a final point to the shadow treasurer. The Labor Party shows very little interest in local authority affairs at its own Federal Conference. Last year the Labor Party's Federal Conference could not find time to include in its platform any reference to local authorities. It has a very muted and distant reference to local authorities under a section described as economic planning, but it was not inactive all the time. It passed a resolution about local authorities in these terms: 
That the economic committee of the Australian Labor Party would investigate the possibility and report on the practicability of including in Labor's fiscal policy certain matters concerning local authority affairs. 
That report has not been made. The Party has done no work on this matter until today when, for reasons which have nothing to do with the welfare of the people, it has been able to dredge up this matter for discussion. Again I would think that the most charitable comment one could make about this debate is that it was initiated more in ignorance than with a fund of knowledge. The people who have the misfortune to exist under Labor controlled councils are well aware that theirs are the areas subject to the most regressive and highest rates in Australia. It is our intention to see that such principles of taxation and charges are not brought into the national government. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I ask": In which treaties or conventions to which Australia has given assent in the past has it been a fundamental and proximate requirement that relations of sovereignty between the Commonwealth and the States be altered? In which treaties or conventions currently being negotiated are such requirements proposed to be imposed upon this country? If there are none can the AttorneyGeneral assure the people of Australia that he will seek to support the traditional attitude that matters of the distribution of power, authority and sovereignty between the Commonwealth and the States will remain a domestic matter? 
The Labor Party's shadow treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  has made a characteristic argument upon this measure.  His  argument fell into various categories and I should like to deal with them one by one. He is concerned, of course, with the nature of this tax, as are most people. But following that proposition he was then concerned with the position of the States within the Federation, and it was at this stage that we saw those well known and well generated crocodile tears streaming down the pages as he read. Finally he was concerned with the effects of this tax and its imposition upon any subsequent decisions at a Premiers' Conference. I hope to deal with these during the course of my comments upon the Bill. lt is common knowledge that this measure has arisen out of the problem concerning the Hamersley case and the excise issue which was decided by the High Court. It is pertinent to say that in this matter the High Court - and this may be applicable to other measures which are proposed - has, in the words of  Sir Henry  Bolte, not been very favourable to the States. That situation having developed it has been found necessary to impose this type of tax. But it ought to be remembered always, I suggest, that this tax is proposed at the suggestion - at the request - of the various States to meet their requirements. This has been made so perfectly clear. The Treasurer in his second reading speech - and nothing in this Bill can be examined without bearing this in mind - had this to say: 
The Commonwealth's approach to the legislation before the House has been thai as it is being introduced at the request of the Slates and for their benefit with the Commonwealth acting in a sense as agent for the States for the purpose, it has been essential for the Stales collectively to say what detailed provisions should be included  in  the Commonwealth legislation within the framework of the agreed arrangements. Accordingly, the detailed provisions have been agreed collectively with the State governments. 
That is the essential background to this measure and unless that background is borne in mind one is not being frank as to the significance of the measure. 
Looking at that situation, I then examined the amendment - the curious amendment which is proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The amendment requires that the Bill be refused - that it be not passed. It would be appropriate for me for a few moments to ask: Why does he want this measure not passed? Why does he want this source of revenue desired by the States within the Australian framework to be refused to them? We can merely come to a sordid analys's of politics and ask ourselves: What has been the position concerning other leaders of his own party in relation to this measure? 
If I might divert for one or two moments from the economics of the Bill to the politics and the matters which have inspired this amendment, I ask myself: What has been the attitude of those leaders of the Party opposite in the various States who have some responsibility? It is worth bearing in mind that the Leader of the Opposition, in a Press statement, and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  have been very concerned about the position in Queensland. I ask them then: Why do they not bear in relation to this Bill as responsible an attitude as was borne by the Leader of the Opposition in 
Queensland and the shadow Treasurer in Queensland who are very well known and respected members of his own Party? I think it is worth while bearing in mind what they said. The shadow Treasurer in Queensland, when the appropriate measure was before the Queensland Parliament in March of this year, had this to say: 
The Opposition- 
That is the Australian Labor Party - has adopted a responsible attitude and decided not to oppose the Bill- 
There we are. The Opposition should make up its differences with these people. The shadow Treasurer in Queensland went on to say: because of the circumstances under which it has been brought down. 
The circumstances are not of this Government's choosing, arc not of the State Government's choosing but are outside the control of both. He went on to say: 
The Opposition will not oppose the increase in revenue that necessarily will flow from the imposition of higher stamp duties. 
They are very pertinent and rather appropriate statements. There does seem to be developing rather a gap between their attitude on these matters and the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition. But, of course, similar measures to this have applied in other States of the Commonwealth. Similar measures have applied for some time in Tasmania. A Bill in that State imposing similar rates although different in some legal aspects - the High Court judgment had not been given - was passed in late 1968. The Leader of the Opposition is going outside to check. I can assure him that my quotes are perfectly correct. In Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  who was the leader of the State Government at the time and in the past a member of the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party, imposed substantially the ingredients in this Bill - a receipts tax - in 1968. What did he have to say?  Mr Reece  said: 
The inevitable conclusion which must be reached if present standards of social services are to be maintained and large deficits are to be avoided is that the State must increase its revenue from taxation. 
Not quite, but I come back to that.  Mr Reece  went on to say: 
Members are familiar with the new form of stamp duty on receipt which was introduced in Western Australia in 1967 and in Victoria earlier this year. 
The impact of this tax has been carefully examined, and it has been decided that the same tax should be introduced in Tasmania to obtain the revenue that is necessary. 
Therefore, if the tax was not to be introduced there were to be cutbacks in certain Government and public services including social services. But, of course, the Leader of the Opposition had received some advice about this matter. He thought he would get around this. He obviously had consulted with the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  The honourable member for Wilmot said a moment ago by way of interjection: 'Oh look, you cannot blame us. The Grants Commission made us do it.' This was almost what he said. 1 presume he said that but if he did not he should have. The fact is that when a tax is imposed in a State and when grants are being given to a State a comparison is made between Tasmania and the standard States. It means that if a tax of this nature is being imposed in New South Wales and Victoria a tax appropriate to Tasmania's capacity ought to be imposed there. We know from an examination of the Grants Commission's reports that Tasmania does not have the capacity to pay taxes per capita at the same rates as apply in the standard States. So if Tasmania had wanted to impose a tax on the advice of the Grants Commission similar in burden to that which operated, and which was proposed to be operated, in the standard States the tax would have been substantially lower than that which the Labor Premier of Tasmania proposed at the time. That should be very clear to the honourable member for Wilmot and the Leader of the Opposition. 
Let me amplify that point a little. We know, for example, that the indices of taxable capacity in Tasmania compared with the standard States range between 60% and 70%. We know that if a tax of lc in $10 applies in the standard States, the burden placed upon the people of Tasmania ought to be something like 0.7c in $10 or 7c in $100. No, the Tasmanian Premier saw that this tax was necessary. 
He saw it was necessary for the maintenance of the level of services in his own Slate and he applied the tax at the higher rate. So, for 2 reasons, as we know from the Premier's own words and from his own calculations, he applied this tax. This merely indicates the gap that has developed between those who are perpetually in Opposition and those who from time to time have some responsibility in terms of revenue and taxation, lt is not for me to flee from the politics of this measure so I intend to go a little further. 
In Western Australia a tax similar to this type has applied for many years, but to a narrower range. No Labor leader in Western Australia has said that he would repeal it. This tax even applies in Victoria. Lei us look at what  Mr Clyde  Holding, a great friend of the Leader of the Opposition, had to say. The Leader of the Opposition is presumed to have helped  Mr Holding  at the last State election in Victoria. He helped  Mr Holding's  vote to rise to 41%. 1 always thought that 50% of the vote won an election. Nevertheless, the Leader of the Opposition helped to get the vote to 41%. What did  Mr Clyde  Holding say about this tax when he introduced his own fiscal policy during the State election campaign in Victoria only weeks ago? All he did was to complain that a tax had been imposed some years before and that he would never give a guarantee that he would repeal that tax. 
A fiscal fizzera delightful comment and most appropriate. Wherever these gentlemen have responsibility, they operate in this way. The Leader of the Opposition has never had responsibility, even in a local council, so he introduces a measure of this kind- 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt will remain silent. 
Even  Mr Dunstan  in the recent South Australian State election did not say that he would repeal the tax. I would like to take a wager at the moment that the lax will not be repealed in South Australia. But the honourable member for Sturt may have some influence with the gentleman concerned. 
Bearing all of these things in mind and looking again at the amendment proposed by the Opposition, 1 wrote out in rather an impish mood an amendment which, according to the rules of the House, will not be put. But I would be interested to see the Opposition vote against an amendment of this type to the Bill. This was the amendment which I wrote down in such a mood: 
And add to the words of the Bill - 'and acknowledging that this Bill has been introduced into this Parliament at the request of the Slates and thai the proposed receipts duty tax has its greatest effect in Queensland, this House supports this Bill in the same manner as ils provisions were supported by the various Stale governments, including the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament and the Labor Government of T  Tasmania 
I would like the Leader of the Opposition to consider an amendment of that kind but, of course, according to the rules of the House, it is unable to be put. 
wish to look now at some of the economic effects of this tax. Much of what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has said is perfectly correct. This is not the kind of tax one would like, lt is what is known in other terms as a cascading tax. It is a cumulative tax and it can rise quite sharply. If the tax was of a very significant size, the tax could then not be put. But it must be borne in mind that this tax is at a very low rate. Even though it is cascading and even though it is cumulative, its effects are not nearly as great as some of those who have written about it have indicated. 
We must bear in mind, nevertheless, that this tax has been brought into being against the background of recent Premiers' Conferences and against the background of requests by the Premiers.  Mr Askin,  Sit Henry Bolte,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and others have agreed that the tax should bc introduced. If it is desired that a tax of this nature not exist, the only solution would be to give back a proportion of income taxation powers to the States, lt is perfectly clear from recent conferences that Premiers do not want back income taxation powers. Were I in a position to take acton. I would endeavour to make the Premiers take back a proportion of the taxation powers and give to them some responsibility for the money which they do spend. But the Opposition does not even approach that problem. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports does not even consider that kind of solution. The Opposition would never support that kind of solution. 
It is wrong to say also that the totality of income taxation has to be retained by the Commonwealth in order to iron out fiscal fluctuations. Income taxation rates and alterations in those rates have been used to iron out fiscal fluctuations in the Australian economy once or perhaps twice - that is all - in the last 20-ocld years, lt has not been done significantly since 1962 to iron out proposed economic fluctuations, and it was done once during the 1950s. There could always be argument about this but the essential point. I think, that has to be taken care of is that the retention of complete income taxation powers by the Commonwealth is not necessary and those powers have nol been used to iron out economic fluctuations. 1 would suggest, still, that a degree of these powers could be returned to the States and should be returned. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports complained concerning the regressive nature of this tax. ft does not bear a relation to work done. It does not bear, always in its totality, a relation to the value of goods which change hands - that is, after a lot of processes. It does not bear much of social value which ought to be supported. But let us put this into perspective. The Commonwealth has been forced into this position. The burden of the tax is considerably less than is suggested in a letter which has been circulated to honourable members by Tickle Holdings Pty Ltd, a Queensland firm. I was disappointed to hear the honourable member for Melbourne Ports quote some of the details in that letter of approval. They are just grossly inaccurate. Let me illustrate this one or two ways. The letter, which has been given wide circulation and on which the Leader of the Opposition hopes to build a campaign, says:   . . the effect of the higher rate on consumer prices in Queensland will largely depend on the extent to which businesses absorb the inc reuse in duly or pass it on in the form of increased prices. 
At the end of the letter there is a calculation showing that, on the original supply of materials to a manufacturer of a ulue of $600, the increased amount of taxation paid at the retail level would be approximately $4. But those who have made this calculation have forgotten that these days an essential of retail enterprise is that so often there is no wholesaler or agents but direct contact between manufacturers and retailers. That is the trend in this kind of activity. So. the lawful increase in the toality of the tax is considerably less than has been made out in this calculation. lt is suggested also that thi.s tax will cause inflation in Queensland. The tax was not responsible for inflation in Western Australia. After the rates were varied there Western Australia was not subject to inflation. After the rates were varied, within a reasonable time it was not inflation that worried Victoria. After the rates were varied, it was not inflation that worried South Australia. After the rales wire varied - although this was a little later- -it was not inflation that worried the other States, including Tasmania. So. insofar as inflation occurs as a result of this tax. the inflation has to have some relation to the increase in prices resulting from this tax. The experience in the other States is as I have indicated. If it is said that inflation occurs in Queensland as a result of the introduction of this tax, the imposition of the tax is being used more as an excuse than as an explanation of reality. But, further, insofar as the tax exists already in highly industrialised processing and manufacturing States - I refer to New South Wales and Victoria - it has a feedback effect on the State that is affected most seriously by this measure - Queensland. That feed back effect operates already in some States. So the letter that has been produced by these people is wrong both in :a economic analysis and in some of the simple calculations on which the analysis is based. 
There are other matters concerning this measure which warrant some analysis and it is not possible to go through all of them. But I would like to mention one or two points which have some significance. The tax does mean greatly increased revenue for some States. It can mean an amount of increased revenue when it is taken with the receipts duties already operating in New South Wales. I am talking now about the blurring of the edges between excise and non-excise tax. It is said it can be worth something in the nature of $3 Om a year to New South Wales, $25m a year to Victoria, $6m a year to South Australia and $6m a year to Western Australia. What it is worth in my own State is rather difficult to calculate but to those who say there is a financial surplus of $70m available to the Commonwealth which should be distributed in this way I would suggest, as I do to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  that they have made a very superficial analysis which, in the case of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, does not become him. A much more profound study of the present economic position in Australia is required. 
When one looks through the levels of returns which are available to States one thing docs stand out and 1 think it is worth commenting upon. The levels or return available in New South Wales and Victoria are very high compared with the returns in the other States. Of the total amount which will be returned in this taxation, those States will gain a disproportionately high amount. Why? They will gain a disproportionately high amount because from the nature of their industry it is clear that it is valuable to them. They have sufficient feed back processes; they have sufficient numbers of changes of goods to be worth a lot to them; they have sufficient specialised industries which enable a high rate of tax to be returned to the States. The States which do not have this kind of industrial structure will have, even at the same rate of tax, a lower amount of money returned to them. If a State has a large proportion of its activity directed to direct export activities and if it does not go through many hands - one can think, of course, of the great mineral States, the States from which the great exports are generated within the Commonwealth - there are fewer interchanges of goods and there are fewer chances to levy a tax of this nature. This means that the return to such a State, granted that the goods are f.o.b., would be significantly less than to States with a different structure. 
This point leads up to the coming Premier's Conference. This conference will consider a new taxation formula for redistribution of resources between the States. The Opposition has never proposed significant alterations in this formula. They complain about finance. They complain about the position of States within the Commonwealth but they have never made one proposition. Bearing in mind the nature of this taxation, 2 aspects of it are significant. The burden of taxation varies in States according to the development of the States and the capacity of States to pay taxation varies according to similar measures. These should be taken into account in any new taxation formula. For example, the present formula takes account of 2 factors mainly - the rate of increase in salaries and the rate of increase in population. There are some others that should be considered and I suggest that these be examined. 
The other characteristics that should be considered in the formula are the differential effects, for example, of tariff protection in highly industrialised States compared with others in terms of the standards to be achieved, and the different multiplier effects of money spent in those States compared with others. These characteristics have both been ignored. With reference to the second characteristic, I go to an article published in the 'Economic Record' of 1964. I would merely suggest this for quick analysis. The article is written by H. A. Brown and is entitled 'Australian Interstate Trade and Payments'. This is the kind of analysis which should be considered in Australian interstate finance. Without going into the details of his argument he says on page 372: 
Trade payments (assuming, in spite of the portion entered above . . .) show a strong net balance towards the central States. The clearing of bank accounts as between States shows a similar tendency if such accounts were able to be published. 
This kind of analysis, which was suggested as long ago as 1964, should be considered by those who are concerned with Australian interstate finance and the position of the States. 
I return to the original thesis which I have made. This legislation has been brought into being at the request of the States. Under the Constitution, this is the only way in which the States can be satisfied. Those who criticised this measure should rationalise certain features of it. 
They are these: If they do not accept it they should make specific proposals for States, which they have never made in the past in any economic context. They should also resolve their differences with the various State leaders who have supported this measure. Finally, in the fields where they do have some responsibility those on the Opposition side who criticise and the Opposition Party that has some responsibility, for example, in local authority affairs, should bear in mind that such local authorities apply normal rates which are much more regressive than this tax and are imposed at the highest level of any local authority in Australia. They should resolve that situation before they suggest a solution to this problem which would lead nowhere. 1 would suggest very kindly that their own sense of regression with respect to taxation would take them out of the situation and out of the economy altogether. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
In view of some recent apparently incorrect public statements, will he indicate the number of public references or displays which have been made or arranged during recent times in Australia on the subject of industrial nuclear power. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the rallies, announced by the Leader of the Opposition and subsequently  Mr Hawke,  to be held next Tuesday and from which strike action has not been disavowed. As this can clearly result in the threat of an economic moratorium in Australia in the same manner as the Opposition and  Mr Hawke  have been instructed to participate in a Vietnam moratorium in September, can the Prime Minister assure the House that domestic as well as foreign and defence policies will not be paralysed by Tuesday's events, not by those proposed for September, in the same manner as has occurred in a number of countries, even though the Leader of the Opposition is intimately involved in both series of demonstrations. 
For the past 65 minutes the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has produced a litter of discontent more reflective of the bearer than of the society which he hoped to describe. We listened for over an hour before we could determine the principles upon which he sought to examine that society which he so badly misjudges, lt was not until the sixtieth minute that we found that the Leader of the Opposition was drawing not upon his own staff to illustrate the principles upon which he made his criticism but upon Professor Galbraith. That is the kind of authority to whom he goes. That is the only economic authority he uses upon which to rest his Budget. The one country in the world which follows the principles of the gentleman whom the Leader of the Opposition quoted with approbation is Canada, wherein his friend  Mr Trudeau  is Prime Minister. It is in Canada that his friend  Mr Trudeau  follows the principles of Professor Galbraith. Let us look at the position in that country where these principles have been put into operation. The level of unemployment is three times that existing in Australia. In some provinces more men have departed from the work force than exist in the work force at the moment. In that country the consistent rate of inflation has been repressive over quite a number of years. Canada's social system and level of social services would not be tolerated for one moment in this nation. But I repeat that that is the country that has followed the principles of the gentleman quoted by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Let us go a little bit further. Honourable members know that  Mr Menadue  departed from the staff of the Leader of the Opposition one or two years ago. It is interesting to read previous speeches on the Budget made by the Leader of the Opposition. Apart from what he said at the sixtieth minute this evening, he has not since 1967 quoted one principle upon which he, as a prospective Prime Minister, would rest any judgment. Let us be perfectly clear about this. The Leader of the Opposition sees himself as presently being within an ace of being Prime Minister of this country. No longer is it a case of building up an Opposition to be a viable Opposition; he sees himself as being within an ace of taking the role of Prime Minister. One has to examine very carefully the platform and the basis upon which he would seek to exercise that role. I shall refer to his health principles a little later. I shall refer to his misjudged civic needs a little later and I shall also refer at some length to his misunderstanding of the taxation system. 
But before that position is examined let us look at the society upon which the Leader of the Opposition would seek to rest his own economic management. More important than anything in terms of a Budget or an economic document are two factors that must remain in any society. There has to be a stability in that society and there has to be the principle of economic certainty as to the future. People have to have a certainty as to what they can expect and they have to have a stability upon which to rest that certainty. What is the attitude of this prospective Prime Minister with respect to these matters? What has been his attitude over the last 6 days?  His  economic proposals can be summed up in I. phrase. He would seek to impose an economic moratorium on Australia. In today's events he had not a little part. He is the first Leader of the Opposition in this country of any party who has depended, for the erection of a platform for his speech on the Budget, upon a series of rallies which have led to preconceived and calculated strikes. The Leader of the Opposition is guilty of that. 
I shall go through the sequence or events, because they are important. He should appreciate that other men who have had the responsibility of economic management know that stability is important. He should recall the history, for example, of  Dr Schacht  and how the disintegration of his society wrecked his economic management. He should know how in recent times the disintegration of French society wrecked  President  dc Gaulle's economic management. Whether or not one agrees with that gentleman, the fact is that unless that basis is preserved the engineering of the economic foundations of a nation is as nothing; it does not count. Yet this Leader of the Opposition participated in that kind of event. He proposed that kind of event. He connived with  Mr Hawke  in proposing that kind of event today, and he is guilty of this as no other Leader of the Opposition has been. The right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  was never known as a conservative in politics; he was known as a radical in politics. He was Leader of an Oppositon for a number of years. He had other parts in politics for a number of years but he was never guilty of that kind of proposal. He never participated in that kind of event in order to shore up a speech of his own. 
I would hope when one listened to these lists of proposals by the Leader of the Opposition tonight one did not forget the background for them which he deliberately sought to create. Perhaps in looking at the psychological reason for this one can recollect that honourable members opposite are within 7 members of government in this place and it may be, of course, that when they get so close to government their judgment runs awry - their judgment runs astray - and a strange kind of sentiment overcomes them. Need I merely recollect that 15 years ago the late  Dr Evatt  was within the same number of government in this country and his judgment led him very seriously astray. Those on the Opposition side who can recollect a little bit of history, and some do, ought to consider that position. It is incredibly important. It is said that any Budget speech can be dull or dangerous. The Leader of the Opposition, unfortunately, has fulfilled both promises this evening. 
What was the economic background against which we should consider the Budget tonight? Not one word has been said about the economic background. It has been ignored. There were 4 facets of the economy to which this Budget had to react. They were simply these: The country had a high rate of growth in real terms; there was present an incipient inflation and we all know that - an inflation which members of the Opposition have sought to ignore, and we will deal with that a little later; there was a promise that significant taxation concessions were wanted and had to be given to the Australian community; and, even more significantly than some of these, the States of the Commonwealth of Australia were to receive, in real terms, greater and more resources than they had ever received in any other period, and a greater increase in those resources. Those were the strictures within which this Budget had to be considered and it was considered within these strictures. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred to taxation. It is the dominant feature of this Budget. There have been great and consistent decreases granted in personal income taxation. Have these been honourable? Have promises been kept? I suggest that the very way in which the taxation concessions have been administered in this Budget illustrates that the welfare principle has been honoured by this Government. The very fact that a rate of taxation concession applies at a higher level for incomes up to $10,000, at a decreasing level to $20,000 and cuts out at  a  higher level of income, indicates a welfare principle. There are those who say that having granted these taxation concessions not sufficient was given in other terms - in terms of social welfare benefits. That kind of reasoning defies simple logic. One cannot both give and take at the one time. This is probably illustrated more clearly in this Budget than in any other Budget since the middle 1950s. That fact cannot in any way be ignored. After all, almost $2,000m more in personal income taxation was paid last year than was paid 14 or 15 years ago. It is wrong and it is inappropriate to consider that all of this increase in taxation was really an extra burden on the Austraiian community. It was not. There were 3 factors which governed this increase in taxation. There was obviously a greatly increased number of taxpayers within the Australian community. There has obviously been a large, persistent and consistent rise in incomes which have moved people into higher taxation levels. Any progressive taxation system requires that. The third characteristic is that there has been an increased real severity of taxation at some levels. It is only by application of that third principle that the Government can, in fact,  reduce  taxation as it has promised. But it has also to be borne in mind that the increased real severity of taxation only accounted for something between 25%  and  30% of the total increase in taxation levy, and out of that the Government is giving, in  a  real sense, in real terms, over a full year over $280m in taxation back to the Australian taxpayer. 
There are those who complain about this. They put their complaints in 2 categories. They say: 'Well, you know, this is not quite right. After all if you are going to give an increased taxation benefit you are going to give more to a person on S5,000 a year than to a person on $3,000 a year'. This is the very argument that has been echoed by the Opposition. 1 remind members opposite that the only way out of that dilemma is to have a regressive form of taxation whereby those on lower incomes pay more than those on higher incomes. ] hope that the consequence of that dilemma will have some attraction for the shadow Treasurer from the Opposition who may follow me in a moment. 
The second aspect of the complaint is that the problem can be evaded if there is not a progressive system of taxation, lt can be evaded if there is high and increasing indirect rates of taxation which fall on families and on working men irrespective of income. The Labour Party and Socialist parties in Australia, where they have authority, and overseas where they have had authority, and have authority, have consistently followed that principle. We have consistently rejected that principle. So one makes no apologies for the taxation concessions because it follows welfare principles, especially on the levels up to $10,000 a year, and then it follows good economic principles of providing incentives on incomes above that level of income a year. When I talk about incomes above that level, I. include those of a surprisingly large portion of the Opposition in this place and of the Opposition in the Senate. So one should examine what they would say, and examine it very closely. 
Having said that, this simply means that the Government this year is going to obtain into its coffers rather less than it has in previous years. The expectations for Government revenue are down compared with previous years. This has been a deliberate decision but it means also that this Budget, being a Budget which is a balanced Budget in many ways, becomes simply like a household budget. Any mother, any wife, any father who has to manage a household budget knows that one cannot pay out what one does not receive. This Budget par excellence is the first for a long time which illustrates the simple principle that a government cannot pay out what it does not receive. So when, during an economic moratorium for which the Leader of the Opposition has great responsibility, there is complaint that insufficient is being paid out, let us recollect that the strongest campaign for taxation concessions around Australia has been made by a number of interested groups. The most deliberate campaigns have been made by those associated with the Party opposite. Some of their front men bombarded every member of Parliament here with letters seeking taxation concessions. They even persuaded a number of union secretaries to write to every member of Parliament. The nature of the reply to those inquiries is appropriate. The Leader of the Opposition and his front bench conned these men into pressing for these concessions. One can only reply in this way to union secretaries who have written those letters: lt is rather surprising that men representing workers on rather humble wages because their awards do not provide for particularly high remuneration should say that the thing they wanted most was tax concessions. Litters of letters from trade union officials from  Mr Hawke  down said that. They made tax concessions their first priority. The tax concessions followed some well worn and well recognised social welfare principles and I hope that they will be recognised for what they are. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred to one other aspect of the Budget. He was concerned with the rises of indirect taxation. He, like a lot of other people, does not like indirect taxation. Who likes any taxation? Who likes any unemployment? Who likes any lack of social welfare? One would have thought from what the Leader of the Opposition said that some of the increases in indirect taxes were anathema to him and contrary to the principles upon which he and his Party have depended and have defended for many years. That is not so. Indirect taxation has always been recognised as being regressive and it is for that reason that over the past 10 years this Government has consistently reduced indirect taxation as a proportion of the total tax levy, except in this year. In this year indirect taxation has risen slightly so that some increases in social welfare and some increases in terms of works could be given. 
There have been Labor chancellors who have deliberately embraced indirect taxation. The Leader of the Opposition makes a world trip every year. He always makes it after some troublesome conference of his own Party at the beginning of June. It is very wise to do that. He evades responsibility. For example, he leaves the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to push his own barrow within the Party. It might be going a little far. I would have thought that when he went to Great Britain he would have had discussions with the immediate past chancellor of that country a Labour Chancellor of Great Britain who, when he introduced  2  years ago massive increases in indirect taxation following the same Socialist principles as are followed by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  and the Leader of the Opposition, had this to say: 
The old dilemma between direct and indirect taxation presents itself in a peculiarly acute form this year. Yet much of the traditional argument is now, to my mind, largely out of date. Indirect taxation, particularly if used in a selective way, is not nearly as regressive as in the old breakfasttable days. 
I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition rests in the days which have been despised by the former Labor Chancellor in the United Kingdom whose next remarks were (appropriate because these are the principles upon which a Socialist government rests. He said: 
But it would be quite unreasonable for people to express their preference for indirect taxation, and then to regard its impact as a greater reason for seeking to offset its effect by income increases than if the pay packet were to be reduced at source by higher direct taxation. My main conclusion is, therefore, that I ought to look for obtaining the bulk of my additional revenue from indirect taxation- 
I remind honourable members that this is a Labor Chancellor speaking -  but that it should be levied in as selective and non-regressive a way as possible. 
When this Government has had to levy indirect taxation those are the very principles that it has followed and unfortunately the Leader of the Opposition has not understood them. 
In one other respect the long speech by the Leader of the Opposition had some relevance. He was concerned, of course, with the problem of housing and with the prob lem of civic costs. We too are concerned with the problem of housing and the problem of civic costs. Housing has declined significantly in this country, but it is perfectly clear from an examination of statistics relating to the weekly rate of lending by banks and by other organisations that housing is presently at the turning point and is at a significant level of increase. We know that the cost of housing for Australian families is great. We know that the direct, the persistent, the annual costs related to housing are something that people do not like. We know that there can be regressive indirect costs in this regard so we try to mitigate them. But what does the Leader of the Opposition do about this? The greatest cost in the period of existence of a house is not the interest rate, not the capital but the cost concerned with the authorities which the Leader of the Opposition on occasions has sought to embrace. I refer to local authorities and local rates. 
This gentleman has been stunting ever since he returned to Australia, showing concern with these matters. Let us look at what he and his colleagues have imposed in the form of the most regressive costs that occur in relation to housing in Australia. Remember that he considers himself to be within an ace of being Prime Minister. Let us consider what he does where he has authority in regard to housing costs and rates. They are referred to in his speech. One principle follows when this is examined. Wherever the Party opposite has power and authority in local authorities in Australia, the increases in rates have been the most savage on the east coast of this country. Let us consider, for example, the Brisbane City Council, the largest local authority in Queensland - bigger than some State governments. Over the past  5  years the increase in this cost, the worst cost that a working man could have, has been well over  60%  in real terms, an incredibly high rate of increase. The attitude to this form of taxation is the important point. We find that in New South Wales the local authority which has been responsible most for this savage charge on householders is not the local authority run by independent citizens organisations, not the local authority that operates divorced from party considerations, but the local authority in which the predominant influence for a number of years has been the Australian Labor Party. 
For  example,  within the honourable gentlemen's own area at Liverpool, an area outside Sydney, there has been the greatest increase in this cost anywhere on the east coast of Australia. Those are the principles he follows where he has authority, where bis Party has authority, where his own people for a number of years have exerted the predominant influence. We only ask that when the people of Australia consider him as an alternative Prime Minister they consider what he proposes to do and what he has done in those fields where he presently has some power. Those concerned with a high rate of taxation would be rather daunted by the prospect. 
I turn to the economic management of this country. We have referred to his mentor, Professor Galbraith. Of course we well realise that his management would be according to the principles of Pierre Trudeau. Who will fail to recollect that earlier this year the Leader of the Opposition, when he had a few words to say about the Prime Minister of Canada, said that the administration of Canada is for us the exemplar? Let me cite the exact words he used and apply them to the economic management of Australia. He said: 
I quote the Canadian example of an extraordinary range of those activities in which I urge change in Australia . . . For a much smaller federal system . . . Canada is the great exemplar. 
He referred to Canada which has a rate of unemployment more than 3 times that in Australia, Canada wherein many millions of people in whole provinces can not find employment. The rate of inflation in Canada has been consistently higher than the rate in Australia. The rate of poverty in Canada has been several times the rate in Australia. In the table which the Leader of the Opposition had incorporated in Hansard during his speech. Canada is placed in a higher position than Australia. The Leader of the Opposition does not know how to make social judgments from the data that is presented to him in the statistical year books of the United Nations. We can only regret the departure from his staff of those who would have been able to inform him on these matters as well as some others. 
One or two other points need to be made. But before they are made it is worth recollecting that, however we view the Leader of the Opposition, he ought to be aware of what those behind him do with respect to economic management in local authorities, the necessarily stable position upon which an economy must depend, and their attitude to inflation. One recollects what the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, who will speak in a moment, had to say last year concerning inflation. He would be the adviser of the Leader of the Opposition. On inflation he said: 
I suggest that there is in Australia an undue obsession with inflation. 
Inflation has guided so many monetary policies that we have had to implement and it has guided a lot of other policies which have had to be implemented. The shadow Treasurer should know that nothing hurts those on low incomes more than the misallocation - to use a word which was used so often tonight- of depreciating resources that accompanies deliberately contrived inflation. 
I suggest that there is in Australia an undue obsession with inflation. Over the past year where there has been some insipient inflation in Australia - albeit very much less than that which applies in a number of other countries - he has s:&gt;id nothing, he has suggested nothing, and he has made no proposal. I would suggest then that the shadow Treasurer ought to seek to answer a number of questions appropriate to his own Party. If he is concerned about inflation, he ought to indicate whether he has a programme on inflation and whether he would follow the policies on income, prices and monetary affairs which some of his mentors have followed in other parts of the world. He ought to indicate whether, in this misallocation or reallocations of resources, defence would suffer and whether a cut in defence expenditure would be seen by his Party in the same way as the Labour Party in Great Britain saw it as a solution to its economic problems. The British Labour Party made great alterations in defence expenditure. The Opposition ought to state tonight whether such a course of action would be a solution to some of the economic problems that it sees. It ought to indicate whether in a system of taxation renewal it would adopt the rate of wage increase adopted, for example, by Canada or the rate of wage increase imputed in the 1970-71 Budget of 7% per year. Is the Opposition to adopt the low one or the one which has been accepted in Australia over a period? The Opposition ought to indicate once and for all which country it regards as the exemplar in economic management. There are decisions which the Opposition must make. Until it makes these decisions, I would remind its members that although they may be within an ace of government, although they may see themselves as being within 7 seats of being in government, another Leader of the Opposition saw himself just as close to government and I would suspect that, merely from that fact, he made incredibly great errors which have cost the Labor Party the government benches for the subsequent 15 years or 16 years. 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Affiars. Has the Minister seen a translation of a major policy statement by Le Duan Secretary-General of the Communist Party of North Vietnam? Does this report destroy forever the fondly held illusion that there has been a civil war in South Vietnam? Finally, does Le Duan make it abundantly clear that from the beginning North Vietnam has manipulated and controlled the entire situation in South Vietnam from Hanoi? 
I was delighted to see the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  rise to support the discussion of this matter. I would hope that he would remain in the House because I intend to make 4 charges with respect to his own personal administration in the Australian Labor Party. It is quite clear that the complete and total surrender of the Australian Labor Party to left wing forces in Australian politics occurred 3 weeks ago at Broken Hill. It is perfectly clear that for the first time this surrender occurred not at intermediate or lower levels of the Party but at the highest level of the Party with the Leader of the Opposition himself personally involved. When a charge of this nature is made I would hope that he would take the opportunity to reply to it, as he can do if he likes. Why does one make such a charge? When one looks at the resolution which was passed by the Federal Executive of the Labor Party and at the third paragraph of that resolution concerning the Moratorium campaign, one sees that it reads thus:  lt is further requested that the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party approach the ACTU with a view to securing joint support for the September Moratorium and that the Federal Secretary discuss with the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party Leader,  Mr Whitlam,  and the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,- 
Old friends -  the arranging of some suitable joint activity by the ALP and ACTU during the September Moratorium in support of ALP and ACTU foreign policy. 
There are 3 ingredients in that resolution which are new so far as the Party opposite is concerned and which are appropriate to our considerations this morning. In the first place it is a clear instruction. In the second place there is an instruction to combine with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and  Mr Hawke  personally. In the third place there is the discovery that there is a joint foreign policy between the Labor Party and the ACTU. When one remembers that the ACTU exists not only at the interstate Executive level but at the level of the State Trades and Labour Councils, some of which are under very strong Communist influence, one can imagine what sort of joint foreign policy can be perpetrated between 2 such bodies. But this is a new attitude for the Leader of a Labor Party. 
The first question we have to ask is simply this: What are the aims of this Moratorium for which the Leader of the Opposition has been instructed to work? The aims have been set out by a number of people. They have been set out by the  President  of the Moratorium, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  They have been set out by committees in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and other .States. A short summary of the aims is simply this: The immediate and total withdrawal of Australian, American and all other foreign troops, no longer from Vietnam, but from Indo China. They have widened the field. The aim is also the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of all military and material support - not just military support, material support - for the present Saigon Government, and the immediate abolition of conscription in any form. So the aims of this body are very wide. They have been widened significantly since May. They have been widened significantly to embrace, at the highest level, the leader of the alternative government in this country. 
We would be recreant to our duties if we did not point out the significance of this popular front that has now been developed. But before we look at the popular front, let me make this charge: It is irrefutable that the Moratorium is a body which exists on 3 supports. It exists on support at various levels from the Communist Party of Australia. That cannot be refuted. It exists on support from the various peace movements which previously have been banned by the Party opposite. It exists on support from the Australian Labor Party. They are intertwined at every level in the movement at the various State campaign committees, and this cannot be refuted. The Leader of the Opposition involved himself with Communists at the Brisbane Trades Hall earlier this year in giving support to the campaign. So when there is a body such as this and an alternative government adopting the popular front technique not only to develop its policy but to formulate its policy and to organise around this policy, it would be recreant for any government or any parliamentarian to seek to hide these facts from the Australian people. 
But there is a certain sadness in this type of approach, and the sadness is that after nearly 40 years of opposition to the popular front technique the Party opposite has at last succumbed to this combination. I remind members opposite that as far back as 1928 it devolved upon members of the Labor Party not to combine in meetings pursuing Communist Party policy. There have been subsequent resolutions concerning particulars, but the philosophy of that resolution at the Executive level over 40 years ago is still supposed to be appropriate, and it is being ignored at organisational levels these days. It is important for Australia to know this also for the reason that we know from experience that the popular front techniques, whether they have been through the old councils against Fascism for peace, whether they have been through the peace movements, whether they have been through the peace campaigns or whether they now come through the Moratorium Campaign, have been used in various countries in the world - certainly in Europe - to bring those countries to the very brink of disaster. 
If one thinks this is something new or something that does not mean much, let me remind the House that the influence of the popular front technique left France a prey to invasion during the Second World War. It was the principal reason why the French body politic could not respond. That very same technique is being pursued in Australia by the Party opposite, the alternative government, at the present day. 
How do I illustrate this? How can it be illustrated simply? I would illustrate it in this way: We know the aims of this body. They apply to Indo-China, and that inevitably and ultimately involves Malaysia. I challenge the Party opposite to examine this question. Recently an amount of publicity has been given to a document put out by the Secretary-General of the North Vietnamese Communist Party, Le Duan. In that document the SecretaryGeneral acknowledged 2 things: Firstly, that the policy of the North Vietnamese Communists involved all Indo-China; and secondly, that they were responsible for the confrontation and the conflict from over a decade ago to the present day - they initiated it and they continue it. That cannot be disputed. That is his strategy. 
I would ask honourable members opposite to answer this question: Can they demonstrate any way in which the aims of this Campaign on which they are now embarking are at variance with the aims and the strategy of Le Duan? They cannot indicate in any way in which these policies are at variance with the strategy and the tactics of Le Duan and the North Vietnamese Communist Party. That strategy applies to the whole of Indo-China; it applies far wider than Vietnam. It is embraced by the Moratorium and the Australian Labor Party. These things have to be brought out. 
There are already 2 charges on the books against the Leader of the Opposition, but there is another one. Why is he combining with an outside body for which he is not responsible? For some years he has attempted to evade this charge. He let the honourable members for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  before he became a right winger, become the avant-garde. They were the avant-garde and he appeared to be dragged reluctantly along. He used to write letters to  Mr Chamberlain  saying that the policy determinations of the Labor Party are not to be determined by outside bodies and demonstrations. I refer to his letter of December 1969. I also refer to his comments earlier this year in a debate in this House when he said he would not combine with a body which was not totally under ALP control. He said: 
I will not sponsor organisations created for internal political activity where those organisations are ones to which I am not responsible or for which I am not responsible. 
That statement appears in Hansard of 14th April. In a letter to  Mr Chamberlain  at a later date he had this to say: 
Members of the Party in matters of foreign defence policy should not give the false and damaging impressions that under a Labor Government foreign policy would be determined at mass meetings or by public petitions. 
Both of those positions have been eroded, and I would say that in the erosion of those positions the one who has suffered most in terms of his own personal ambition is the Leader of the Opposition. He has to be mentioned personally because he remains the figurehead of the Australian Labor Party. He is the figurehead that will be torn down as people realise the significance of the figure and the significance of those behind him. He rather reminds me of the prehistoric animal the brontosaurus. The brontosaurus had a very poor means of internal communication, and it was well known that an enemy could attack the brontosaurus and eat its way right up the tail to the head before the brontosaurus realised what was happening. Needless to say the animal went out of existence. 
I have merely made some reference to the traditional attitudes of the Party opposite. If these combinations are no longer outside the pale so far as the Party is concerned, that is its business. If it says that these associations are to be desired in determinations and actions concerning the highest policy, that is its business. But it can also be the business of a member of this Parliament to indicate where double standards are involved. Double and even triple standards are involved in this matter. Members of the Oposition know that what I say happens to be correct. 
We are not against protesters. I have never been against protests; I have never been against dissension. But the attitude to protests and the attitude to dissension ought to be the attitude to these matters of responsible union secretaries such as exist, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh knows, in the Australian Workers Union, for example, in certain States. The attitude to strikers by responsible union secretaries consists of several parts. A strike must have aims that can be pursued without harm to members; it must have some proportion to the aim to be achieved; and they must have exhausted all reasonable methods of obtaining their aims. That is the tradition of the Australian Labor Party but that is not the tradition being observed today. The Party opposite today has thrown that tradition overboard because it is throwing so many of its old principles overboard. 
Let me make a further comment that 1 think is appropriate. We have said that in the past there was an avant-garde in the Labor Party and that it was dragging the Leader of the Opposition along reluctantly. It consisted of the members that I have nominated. But these days we look at the Labor Party and we wonder who, in racing terminology, is the pacer and who has been set to win, because all members of the Party are racing together towards the post. This clearly is the aim of the Moratorium and clearly is a total surrender to the popular front technique of organisation and of policy administration in the Labor Party. I challenge honourable members opposite to refute that. 
My fourth charge against the Leader of the Opposition is that he has surrendered his own position to the left wing of his Party at the price of preserving a seeming unity. He has officially adopted and will continue officially to adopt the popular front technique in his own administration in the Party and outside the Party. I challenge him to indicate in which way the aims of this Moratorium Campaign, in which so many members of the Opposition will demonstrate, are in conflict with the aims of the Secretary-General of the North Vietnamese Communist Party concerning all Indo-China. 
 The honourable member who is interjecting would parade himself as a right winger from time to time but let him answer the question I have asked. The Moratorium Campaign depends for its existence on 3 props: Members of the Communist Party at every level, members of the peace movements and members of the Australian Labor Party. Having made  4  charges, I invite the Leader of the Opposition to refute them because their refutation is significant to this country. If the Leader of the Opposition is ever to achieve what he hope to achieve he has to face up to these matters and not completely abandon the traditions of the Labor Party, of which he was so ignorant until he became a member of Parliament. 
Is the Deputy Prime Minister aware that it is now more than 30 years since the popular front technique of political pressure was developed in certain European countries? Is he further aware that this technique helped to debilitate many overseas countries and to destroy their capacity for self defence? Does the right honourable gentleman see similar characteristics between the popular fronts of former days and the involvement of various groups and personalities in the Moratorium Campaign which might engender a feeling of foreboding? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. It concerns a recent dispute in Queensland wherein the Queensland Colliery Employees Union contested the right of the Australian Workers Union to cover workers engaged on a coalfield. Is it correct that the Australian Workers Union in Queenland and New South Wales covers many occupations and is constantly under attack by left wing unions in demarcation disputes? Will the Minister therefore do all in bis power to preserve the right of workers to be covered by the unions they respect and to ensure that unions do not adopt attitudes designed merely to destroy the Australian Workers Union in certain States, such attitudes having been exemplified over a number of years by the shadow Minister for Labour, the honourable member for Hindmarsh? 
It was only perchance that I happened to be in the House when the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  raised  thismattertonight. 
 I did not understand that the honourable member for Lalor was responsible for the Sunshine Council, but nevertheless he is the Federal member for the area. The honourable member for Lalor did not even have the courtesy to let me know that he was going to raise this matter tonight. As I said, it was only perchance that I happened to be in the chamber at this time. I will have a look at the details which he gave to the House andI shall make comments upon them at a suitable time. There is a matter which I had intended to bring up tomorrow night but as the honourable member for Lalor is here and following his example I intend to bring up a matter concerning him and without reference to him. I will show him the same kind of courtesy that he apparently shows to others. I refer to a statement which be made in the Melbourne Age' on 27th June this year. He gave to that newspaper a copy of a pamphlet which concerns the Ustasha. I had presumed that the honourable member would not leave the chamber but would show courtesy to members of the Parliament. The pamphlet was presumably offering high rewards to an extreme right wing Croat secret society for the assassination of the people who appeared on the pamphlet, a copy of which he released to the 'Age'. The article in the 'Age' states: 
Or Cairns said last night that the pamphlet had been sent to many members of the Croat community in Melbourne and copies had been distributed at soccer matches bythe Ustasha. The pamphlet shows photographs of '5 well-known Ustasha opponents' and is headed 'On Their Heads! A better price than the lottery. 
And so the pamphlet goes on. It is quite an extreme pamphlet. Then the honourable member for Lalor connected this pamphlet with members of the Croat community in Melbourne in this way. The article in the Age' continues: 
The pamphlet said that it was the duty of every Croat to liquidate the 5 enemies.  Dr Cairns  said a branch of the Ustasha operated in Australia. He believed some members had murdered to achieve their aims. 
This is where one detects his sense of propriety. The article continues: 
He said he knew of a Ustasha training headquarters in Albert Park surrounded by a huge fence where future Usinsha members  weretrained  to use guns and taught intimidatory tactics.  Dr Cairns  said that most people did not realise how dangerous the Ustasha was and he was going to raise the question in Parliament 
We are still waiting. This is quite clearly a slur upon Croats who have their headquarters in Melbourne. I have in my. hand 2 letters which were written to the honourable member for Lalor asking him to clarify the charges he made in the Melbourne Age' that day. On 14th August a letter was sent to  Dr Cairns  of 7 Sun Crescent, Sunshine, Victoria, and signed by Joseph Cuk, the secretary of the Australian Croatian Association. It reads: 
In the Melbourne 'Age' of 27th June 1970, a statement concerning the Croatian community was attributed to you which has caused considerable harm to members of that community. 
You referred to a pamphlet which contained a picture of a number of members of the Yugoslav secret agents, and stated that rewards had been offered for the killing of these persons. 
As members of the Croatian community we are not concerned with these pamphlets for which - if they exist - we have no responsibility whatsoever. What concerns us as officials of Croatian House in Albert Park is your further statement which we quote from the 'Age'. 
Then there is quoted a portion of the newspaper article which I have just read to the House. The final paragraph of this letter to  Dr Cairns  is very interesting. It reads: 
We are perfectly ready to make an appointment with you at a time of your choosing to conduct you over Croatian House to demonstrate that you statement is completely wrong. If you comunicate with us at either the address or the phone number stated below, we will be prepared to make arrangements with you and any companion- 
Even the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  or the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  would be invited to accompany him - to permit you to examine our premises to investigate for yourself whether there is any truth in the allegation you have made. 
There was no reply to that letter. On 24th August 1970 a further letter was sent by registered post number 2433 to  Dr -Cairns  at Sunshine. The letter reads: 
Has the Prime Minister seen a recent statement which advised young soldiers in the Australian armed forces to disobey their commanders? Would he consider it even more serious to reject the authority of the commanders of Australia's defence forces than to spread disaffection for democratic authorities among the body politic, as has been advocated? Who has advocated that course of action, and what are the consequences? 
There were 3 aspects of the speech of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  which rather intrigued me. The first was his appeal to history in order to substantiate his own view of conscience on this matter. It is a view of conscience which, by the way, is not supported by history. It was an appeal to the centuries of governments of the Western type to support his case. I find this a little intriguing because, in another paper that was tabled yesterday, he sought on 2 occasions to debunk that very history which he sought to use in aid of his own case this morning. Let me give an example. In the other paper tabled yesterday the honourable member for Lalor had this to say: 
Now we have reached the stage where we are almost at the end of an historical period. Democracy has been government through Parliament, that is the 17th and 18th century feature of democracy, because Parliament is only one form or one way in which you can govern yourself. 
In a further debunking of history and in a further attempt to indicate that the past is to be erased clean, he had this to say: 
We are reaching, ladies and gentlemen, whether we know it or not, a changing stage in history. 
So he appealed to the past. 
The second point which rather intrigued me was the reason for which the Opposition moved this amendment. I believe the moved the amendment because they were terrified. They know that very many of their members have been affronted by what has been stated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  There is a spark of patriotism that runs through many members of the Opposition. They are concerned and they are worried. The Opposition knows that by moving an amendment which amounts to a censure it will at least be able to drag some of its members, who would -otherwise not be willing, to a vote. That is the reason for which the Opposition seeks to move its amendment. The third point which intrigued me was the honourable member's appeal to the principles of law and order and it is his belief that law and order can be substituted for and invoked against the present social order in the community. With this rather Marcusean doctrine that has so much support from the Opposition I will deal in a few moments. 
We see running through this debate an interesting parallel of forces. We see the twin forces of the honourable member for Lalor and the Leader of the Opposition running in the same direction which we know they have been traversing for some time. They are running in the same direction so clearly and so manifestly today. They are twin tracks running to the same destination. Because that destination is so worrisome and because it forbodes so much ill for this country many of us are concerned. In the one case we have the social philosopher, the political practitioner, the organiser of authority outside Parliament - the honourable member for Lalor. In the other case we have the titular head, who is part of the twinning process. As is wont in any analysis of this, let us have a look at the social philosophy which underlay the statement of the Leader of the Opposition. The social philosophy which was enunciated by the honourable member for Lalor yesterday is so monstrous that it should be exposed for itself and for its interpretation. I shall read again from the address which was tabled yesterday and which the honourable member gave during Moratorium week. He had this to say: 
In order to govern yourself, ladies and gentlemen, you have to exercise power wherever power is, and Parliament ls not the only place where there is power. Power also exists in the schools, in universities, in factories, in government departments, in banks and everywhere else . . . 
Two aspects of that statement deserve examination. Firstly, nowhere is it stated that power exists pre-eminently in Parliament. That is not even conceded. Secondly, the honourable member seeks to politicalise every organisational group within the country. He does not even except families. By making universities, schools, business and financial processes agents in the search for power the honourable member will do this country a grave disservice. That is not part of the history to which the honourable member for Lalor appealed. If this happens in universities there will be no academic freedom left. Universities require this freedom in order to examine the community and seek truth. Nowhere in that statement does the honourable member except families as a part of this process of politicalising power at every stage of the community. 
I ask the House to deliberate on those agencies of Government which, within this century, have sought to implement and to find power in every aspect of society. I go back to the statements of Mussolini which are disastrously similar to the application of the philosophy by the honourable member' for Lalor. I go back to a more rigid and harder application of that philosophy as enunciated in the country next door to Mussolini's and a little to the east. That is the logical extension of the social philosophy which hase been enunciated by the honourable member for Lalor. It is the most monstrous thing we could imagine to occur in this country. It is the most monstrous thing to be stated on a public platform. We are concerned about that philosophy and its practitioners here. 
The honourable member is in company. There is always a military aspect to the deliberation of power. That has been provided in this case by none other than the titular head of the honourable member's own Party. He has stated 3 or 4 things concerning the Australian Armed Forces which need to be examined in detail. He has substituted himself as an authority for Army commanders in the field and in Australia. He has done this quite clearly. The titular head of the Australian Labor Party has given frightful advice to young men who are concerned about military service. He has quoted countries overseas in which none of the principles which he has enunciated has been followed. The philosophy which he has enunciated in terms of military responsibility dovetails, complements completely and is a twin to the definition of power as demonstrated by the honourable member for Lalor. Let me illustrate this point. I refer again to the Press conference held by the Leader of the Opposition. I read the relevant parts of the report of that Press conference: 
Q, You should give written advice again that if . . . 
That question tails off. The Leader of the Opposition gave this answer: 
That if he was ordered to go to Vietnam he would not obey that order. 
The report continues: 
Did you go to the point where if he has given that written advice that he won't and it is ignored that he should ignore the order? 
The answer by the Leader of the Opposition was: 
He should disobey the order. 
Another authority has been set up in place of the authority which is reposed on soldiers in the Australian Army. 1 would ask members of this House merely to reflect from history the occasions in which that has occurred and if they would duplicate that kind of history in this country 1 would hope that they would look to the Leader of the Opposition because he obviously shows himself capable of duplicating it. Of course, in addition to that, the Leader of the Opposition is a simple member of Parliament. He is disposed from time to lime to give advice to constituents. He said at another part of the Press conference that this would be part of the advice he would give to constituents. 
I merely want to examine within this context an attitude of cowardice and I want  a-  cowardice qc it applies  In  advice of this type, lt is not said that the advice to young men is to break the National Service Act. It is not said precisely and specifically. What is said is that these young men should place themselves in jeopardy in a military situation. The Leader of the Opposition has quite clearly covered his own tracks. He has used a glib tongue to secure his own position in this respect while he prods and pushes young men to thwart military justice. This is the attitude which he has taken. This comes not merely from a member of Parliament who is not trained in the law, as most of us are not still, but it comes from a sort of Sydney silk. This is the advice he would give to an unwilling and unpaying client. What he has had to say has to be examined in that context. He proposes neither protection nor sound advice for his non-paying clients. All that remains for him to do is to nominate the time and the circumstances for a mutiny in the Australian Army on Australian soil. I would hope that when he speaks later in this debate he will seek to clarify that position. 
The second aspect of what he has done is this: He has substituted his own sense of strategy as a member of Parliament for the strategy of Army commanders and he has referred to 4 countries. He has nominated Israel, Sweden, Switzerland and Singapore. Will he indicate in which of those countries a choice is open to the members of the Army as to which enemy they would fight? In not one of those countries is that opportunity nominated. Perhaps Sweden is not the best example to compare with Australia for many reasons, but can a member of the Swedish Army say: 'I will not fight the Russians' - the reason for which it exists? Is it open to them to nominate such an exception? Can a member of the Israeli Army nominate the enemy against whom he will or will not fight? Can a member of the Singaporean Army have the same liberty? Does a member of the Swiss Army nominate the enemy against whom he would or would not light? This principle is not utilised anywhere, and I regard as most monstrous the proposition that the Leader of the Opposition has perpetrated here today. 
Of course it is said this might be mutiny or it might not be mutiny; it might or might be an incitement to mutiny. I have always been intrigued by the wriggling which the Leader of the Opposition can undertake. 1 can only see that there is always an origin for his attitudes. 1 recollect that a few months ago the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria,  Mr Crawford,  had something to say about mutiny within the Australian Army. The only difference was that there was a locality difference between that mutiny and that which was enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition. We know now that the Leader of the Opposition, having exploited the contradictions in his own Party and having used the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to do it - he may regret it some day - is a clear lineal descendant of  Mr Crawford,  formerly of the Victorian Labor Party. There is clearly little difference in their attitudes. I challenge htm to apply the principles differently or to make distinctions between them. The points are there. It is up to the Leader of the Opposition to enunciate them. 
We return to the honourable member for Lalor. We return to the social philosopher who knows what he is doing about politics and we refer to his titular head. I often think of these two, the honourable member for Lalor and the Leader of his own Party, in the position of another social philosophy used to political power and a titular head. I would put the honourable member for Lalor and the Leader of the Opposition in the same category as Lenin and Keoreinsky. Who will eventually run the show? Who does not know what is going on behind him? Who does not know the revolution that is being organised behind him in his own Party? Who is exercising the real power? I remind the Leader of the Opposition, since he has moved so far to the left, even of the honourable member for Lalor, to reflect what happened to that former Prime Minister- -that  titular head of his own country, lt .may be .his own fate also. 
But we go a little further. We have seen that a philosophy has been enunciated. The organisation of power within that philosophy has been made clear by the honourable member for Lalor. The military aspects of that philosophy have been made clear by the Leader of the Opposition. We can only say that so many on the front bench through Marcuse give substance to that philosophy. The Leader of the Opposition has now given military teeth to its application. Those of us who are concerned with this country and its position in the world have to take note of what is happening. If this is all right, let them say so. But this philosophy and its application rest upon a political base that comprises some interesting personalities. We have seen the union of that philosophy, its application and its leadership with respect to the recent Moratorium. There we saw the same principle carried through again - a philosophy worked on by the honourAustralia in every State - not excepting organisation being developed by him and the Leader of the Opposition participating in both processes. 
-That is perfectly correct. The Vietcong flag is involved in this. The episode of the Vietcong flag is merely a manifestation of the process that has been occurring. A platform that has been erected, and the end result of which we see here today, has been developing for some time. It has depended on 3 supports. This has been enunciated before and we challenge the Leader of the Opposition to deny this, lt is dependent upon the support, as is demonstrated through the recent Moratorium, of the Communist Party of Australia in every State - not excepting any. It is dependent upon their union and their working towards the same end and at the same time working with the peace movement in Australia. It is dependent at the highest level on the support of the Leader of the Australian Labor Party also. He has helped to erect this platform. He has on occasion stood on that platform. That substantiates, supports and acts as a substratum to all that has been enunciated here today. 
I hope he will answer some of these points because they indeed need to be answered and many people in this country are so concerned at what they would lead to. He might say: 'I do not know anything about this. I am completely ignorant of these things. I seek to deny it or I seek to ignore it." He can exploit contradictions. Sometimes they can be exploited for one's own purpose. Other men have been able to exploit contradictions and even state contradictions. I recollect that very famous leader who at the time he was doing to death between 25 million and 30 million people was able to say: 'Nothing is so sacred to the ruler of a nation than the lives of its citizens.' The contradictions can be there. They can be there with respect to Stalin and they can be applied in a much less significant way. but nevertheless significant for Australia, with respect to the leaders on the front bench of the Opposition. 
I said that I would refer to one point in the speech of the honourable member for Lalor with respect to law and order. I find his application of the Marcusean doctrine, which has so many devotees on the front bench of the Opposition, rather intriguing. Having reflected on what the honourable member said with respect to law and order, let me indicate what is said by some of their idols. Herbert Marcuse in his book 'An Essay on Liberation', said concerning the effect of ideas and social organisations in the community: 
These may first be ideological (like the ideas of liberty, equality, fraternity advanced by the revolutionary bourgeoisie), but the ideology can become a material political force in the armour of the opposition . . . 
A political machine having been fashioned outside this House which would seek to take power to itself through every sector of society has its application in this passage on social order: 
In this situation, law and order becomes something to be established as against the established law and order: The existing society has become illegitimate, unlawful: It has invalidated its own law. 
I invite honourable members, if they are devotees of social philosophers, to try to find the difference in terms of thinking betwen the honourable member for Lalor, tho honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and others and the expression of that doctrine through such a discredited gentleman. Here we find it. 
There are many other matters to which 1 would like to refer but I leave one or two points for the Leader of the Opposition to answer. I ask him: Does he agree now with the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and the honourable member for Oxley that association with people such as has occurred in the Moratorium is now open for members of the 
Australian Labor Party? Does he approve of this social philosophy and its action in undermining his own Party? Does he approve of its application in this place and outside this place? Is he proud of the fact that he is the only leader of an Australian Opposition who has ever actually called for a mutinous situation to be developed within the Australian Army? Even the great opponents of conscription in the First World War never called for that. Finally I suggest that if one is to refer back to his tory one would find that Lenin the protagonist and Kerensky the man with the aparent power formed a more realistic example of the current situation than one would even dare to imagine. 
I was very interested in the 3 reasons put forward by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  as the bases for opposing this Bill. 1 suggest that there is an additional reason which ought to be included and that is the one which was enunciated quite clearly last night by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He referred to the doubt concerning the flexibility relating to overseas lenders with respect to convertible notes. I also have misgivings about this Bill, especially concerning the prospective overseas lenders, but for very different reasons from those put forward by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
Before I deal with that I would like to refer to one or two of the reasons enunciated by the honourable member for Adelaide. The honourable member was concerned that this measure is a complex financial one and this being so it adds significantly to the list of legislation which involves areas of this type - taxation legislation of various kinds. I suggest that complexity alone is never a sufficient reason for opposing a measure and that it can on occasions be a reason for trying to understand what is involved in the measure and then to produce whatever reasons are appropriate for supporting or opposing the measure. 
The second reason he gave for opposing this Bill was that adequate reasons have not been given for the introduction once again of convertible notes in this country. Convertible notes with the taxation advantages appropriate to them operated, as we know, quite significantly during the late 1950s. They went out during the early 1960s. The reason that they went out. as was clearly enunciated by a former Treasurer, was that they were not providing a useful accretion to the productive capital of the country but that they were being used for taxation measures, for deferred share issues and for the advantages that went with such arrangements. This measure represents an attempt to find the extent to which the reasons for the misuse during the 1950s apply today and if there are any cases in which investment in productive enterprise would occur with this type of measure which would not otherwise occur then this measure can be of some use. The attempt to eliminate the abuses which occurred more than 10 years ago is made clear in the conditions which are being utilised to fence around the convertible note issue involved in this Bill. 
The third point offered in opposition to this Bill concerns interest rates. My understanding may not be correct but I do not understand that convertible note issues, either in Australia or overseas, will of themselves cause interest rates to be higher than they would otherwise be. For example, if there is any advantage in issuing convertible notes overseas it may be that the interest rates offered to lenders can be at a rather lower level than they would be with fixed interest loans because there are certain other advantages to be had. Consequently I find it difficult to accept that internationalisation of interest rates on that basis will cause the rates to be higher in Australia than they otherwise would be if the notes were not to be issued. 
I find the 3 reasons enunciated by the honourable member for Adelaide unattractive. I will later refer to that part of the legislation which deals with foreign investors. It is 10 years since this type of legislation was before the House. The reasons for discontinuing the practice were made perfectly clear by a former Treasurer when he said in his second reading speech on 6th December 1960: 
There has recently been a strong trend for companies to issue convertible notes in lieu of shares, and by this means they have been obtaining a deduction for interest paid on the notes . . . The notes have in substance more in common with the permanent capital of the company than they have with either short term or long term borrowings. 
He went on to say: 
But from the evidence there was a strong presumption that there was a misuse of the intentions for which convertible notes were deemed to operate. 
When one examines the raisings of new money for companies during that period and the rate of increase in the utilisation of convertible notes from 1954 to 1961 the misuse of them is clear. During that period there was a very marked increase in the volume of fund raising by listed and unlisted companies, both in the absolute and relative terms. The peak period for fund raising for notes, debentures and so on occurred in 1960. In that year nearly 60 per cent of new funds were raised in this form. This compares with a little over 20 per cent 5 years previously. It is interesting to note, from an examination of the figures, that after the November measures of that year this form of fund raising was almost completely eliminated. If one goes through the financial bulletins of that period from which these details can be elucidated, it is clear that from 1954-55 there was an escalation in this type of borrowing. In 1954-55 SI. 8m of the new capital raised through the issuing of debentures, registered notes or from accepting deposits was from this source. In the next year it was $4m and in the following year $5m. In 1958-59 and in 1959-60 the amount of convertible notes utilised to raise capital in this way rose to $19m and $48m respectively, and at that period they were discontinued. Immediately there was a sharp and precipitate decline in the use of this form of raising and by 1961-62 it was down to $7m. So there was a strong presumption that once the advantages were taken away from this type of activity it was found to be significantly less attractive for those people who wanted to invest. 
This Bill represents the attempt to discover what proportion of those moneys was not being used merely for deferred share issues or in order to escape the revenue of the Commonwealth with the advantage of convertible notes, and if $5m or $10m is available through this means which would not otherwise be available this measure can be useful and should be passed. If one looks at the results of this measure in 3, 4 or 5 years time one can then make an assessment, but to oppose the Bill and to reject it out of hand as it has been rejected by the Opposition is, I suspect, a little irresponsible. After all, in this measure, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has indicated, there are conditions, which have not previously applied, which fence around these issues. The Prime Minister made it perfectly clear last year - and at that time there was no opposition - that convertible notes would operate in this country. He indicated that the conditions for their operation were to be 5 and, as he stated in this House on 16th September 1969 the conditions were these: First, the lender or noteholder, and not the issuing company, has the option to convert. That is the most important new provision. Previously all the initiative tended to remain with the company. Secondly, the noteholder's right to exercise the option is not deferred longer than 24 months after the date of issue of the security. In other words there is a no option for a period of 24 months. Thirdly, the convertible note is to have a currency of not less than 7 nor more than 10 years but the company may make the terminal date for the exercise of the option as much as, but not more than, 12 months earlier than the maturity date of the note. That will be up to 9 years after the issue of the note. Fourthly, the terms and conditions of the issue are fixed and not subject to any variation throughout the period of their currency. Fifthly, there are certain provisions concerning the conversion price of the notes. 
With respect to foreign investors, and I touch now upon the reason for which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports finds opposition, foreign investors vary in a couple of ways. There is a flexibility as to interest rates which does not apply with respect to notes issued on the domestic market. The time limits of between 7 and 10 years do not operate in as stringent a manner. They are the 2 principal aspects of difference concerning foreign investors. On those bases alone it is not sufficient to say that they ought to be refused with respect to foreign lenders. But I suggest there is another reason for which f doubt their applicability to foreign lenders, and it involves the specific mention in the second reading speech of the Australian Industries Development Corporation. I would. suggest that through the issues of these convertible notes overseas to foreign investors, and especially through the part of the indus-  tries Development Corporation in its issuer - and that can occur - there is going to be allowed to be a greater overseas equity in Australian industry than would otherwise occur. This is the principal reason for which I have some doubts. 
It is perfectly clear when one looks at the measure that the AIDC can hold notes, it can hold shares and it can issue convertible notes on an overseas market. It might be argued that it can do this because it may be able to obtain loans at lower interest rates than without convertible notes. I have no argument with that but these notes issued on an overseas market can, at a certain date, become convertible. We have to remember at the same time that the AIDC is not prevented in any way from holding up to 15 per cent or a greater equity holding in Australian industry - an equity holding which can give it effective control. That provision was specifically not accepted by this House when the AIDC legislation was submitted to it. So we see that the Australian Industries Development Corporation through its operation in the convertible note market overseas and through its holding of equity in Australian industries lays itself open  to  the suggestion that there can be a greater overseas equity holding in Australian industry than would occur otherwise. This applies especially in another way. It has to be remembered, for example, that the Industries Development Corporation is not a lender of last resort. Companies that want to operate through the AIDC do not have to demonstrate that there are not fixed interest loans available overseas at equal or even lower interest rates, so it has an incredible amount of initiative in this field and, through its operation in the convertible note market, I do not particularly like the legislation that is before the House. I intend to vote for it because we will have to see how it operates, but as long as it is not prevented from holding the amount of equity that it can hold we lay ourselves open in a way in which I do not think we should. 
Other speakers have gone through the provisions of the Bill and have dealt in detail with it. I do not want to go through the details as have been enunciated by other speakers, but one can ask oneself a further question. If, as it suggested, this can enable overseas investors to have a greater share in Australian industry than they would otherwise have, what is the experience overseas? What about overseas companies that have issued convertible notes? Have they, in fact, enabled there to be greater, say, American investment in those companies than otherwise would apply? For a couple of reasons, they have not. The period of operation of these notes in overseas markets has been far greater - 10 to 25 years. The interest rates have varied rather more than has been the case in Australia, and most lenders would not have exercised their option because the market price in the host country of many of the shares has not risen sufficiently or has not fluctuated in a way which would enable that market price to be taken advantage of or to be appreciated. 
However one will have to see how this operates in the future to examine whether the danger involved in the legislation will be realised. If it is ralised it will not be to the advantage of this country. If it is not realised then we will have gained more out of the convertible notes than we would have gained otherwise. It epitomises the basic balance that has to be examined in measures of this type. On the one hand we have an opportunity to preserve Australian equity. On the other hand we do not want (he revenue to be robbed in respect of the convertible note issues. This is a balance that has to be examined and preserved. It is a balance on which judgment can come down on one side or the other, but I suggest that this aspect of the legislation should be looked at. The operations of the AIDC, which operates not at market rates but at beneficial rates compared With other operators in the field, will have to be examined very closely. But I suggest that the Bill ought to be passed because it can be beneficial to this country. If we are able to discover those genuine operators in convertible notes in the late 1950s and early 1960s and can entice them into the field of capital investment now - they would not be enticed if it were not for this Bill - then 1 suggest it will be worthwhile to pass this Bill. 1 suggest that it should be examined in this way. 
The honourable member for Sturt has illustrated over many years the principles of a minimum rate of growth, and he illustrates them tonight in his own stature. What does 'regressive' mean? With respect to welfare, is there less welfare distributed as a result of this Budget or as a result of this income tax measure than there was hitherto? That case has not been touched. Perhaps the Opposition meant rather to move an amendment to the effect that the income taxation measures are not as progressive as it would like them to be. The difference between the 2 is a world. But it is a difference which, I would suggest, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  did not touch upon in his contribution this afternoon. It is a difference which the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  has not touched upon. It is a difference which, I would hope, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  may touch upon when he follows me in this debate. 
We must look at the requirements of an income tax system. After all, this is what we are dealing with. What are the requirements of an income tax system? We can go to the Canadian Royal Commission on taxation of 4 years ago. The Canadian Royal Commission on taxation made it perfectly clear that the first objective of the tax system was to maximise the growth of output. Unless the growth of output is maximised, a government has neither income taxation concessions to confer nor welfare to confer. But the Opposition has ignored this principle. Countries with low rates of growth have no welfare to confer. Do not members of the Opposition know that the problem with the British taxation system after the war was that insufficient incentive to the people subject to that taxation system was allowed and while the British Government devoted itself to welfare in the years immediately after the Second World War, British growth was retarded right throughout the 1950s because that principle was forgotten. That can be well substantiated, but the Opposition has ignored this principle. 
It simply means that, in a sense, one has to be concerned with the vertical redistribution of taxation as between income groups. It means that different income groups are to make their appropriate contribution to a country's progress and to a country's economic growth. The vertical principles of taxation, as they apply to the income tax measures now before the House, are fair. They are adequate. More measure is made in order to draw distinctions between people at different income levels in relation to their contributions to Australian welfare than occurs in almost any other country in the world. It is no use talking about welfare on its own. We talk about nothing if we talk about welfare on its own. For example, we have the Australian Labor Party platform on taxation. It has one. It is an extremely minute document as well I would expect it to be. In the Australian Labor Party platform on tax, the Australian Labor Party never mentions these most basic principles that must animate any taxation system.- I refer to the Platform, Constitution and 
Rules of the Australian Labor Party. I turn to page 11, section V headed 'Economic Planning'. Reference is made in paragraph 3 to 'The pattern of taxation and deductions to be reviewed". The Labor Party then mentions 6 items. Nowhere does it mention the most important and most central item of any taxation system. 
Welfare cannot be administered in a vacuum. But the Opposition would seek to do so. Need I remind Opposition members, after all, that other Labor governments - the British Labor Government and the Australian Opposition when it was in power - administered taxation but they did not administer it so as to assume maximum growth. They administered it on the principle that all that can be obtained from the people is taken, incentive is reduced and something is re-distributed on the claw back principle. But there are those who are subject to these matters. It does not do a country any good for itself to be subject to them. While I am dealing with the different rates of taxation let me refer for a moment to the contribution made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I was intrigued that, having regard to incentive, he paid such attention to the fact that only 71,000 taxpayers in this country had an actual income of $10,000 or more. One could hear the regret creep into his voice, the thought that maybe no concessions ought to have been given to these people or that the concessions ought to have been far less than they were. There we see once again the disincentive that so animates the Opposition when it is concerned with matters of taxation. 
Honourable members opposite ought to know that unless there are some inequalities in income or in resources a nation just does not go ahead. No country in the world which has sought to equalise resources and income completely as between people, has progressed. It is due to a basic misunderstanding of social justice that the Opposition would seek to do this. There is a great difference between social justice, as it is administered to people, and forced equalisation. It just does not operate' in the facts of life and in the real world. Let us go a little further. What are the great disincentive effects that apply to taxation? Let us look again at the Canadian Royal Commission on Taxation. 
The Commission makes it perfectly clear that to have too high a rate of taxation imposed on those on incomes above the average applies a disincentive effect that disadvantages all. It refers to this time and time again throughout its reports. The Commission said:   we are convinced that high marginal personal rates of tax do have a negative effect on labour, managerial and professional effort. 
This applies to the country which has so often been held up by the Opposition as the exemplar for Australia to follow. A strange silence creeps over the Opposition. Let us go a little further. What are the disincentive effects that apply to taxation? The honourable member for Melbourne Ports attempted to give example to them when he quoted the case of a worker in 1954-55 on an income of $1,700 who would be paying a rate of marginal taxation of 17.6 per cent. In 1968-69, presuming his money income had doubled to $3,400, he would be paying a marginal rate of income tax of 29.5 per cent. Somehow that was taken to illustrate the principle that taxation has got out of hand. 
The honourable member knows as well as I do that it is not quite as simple as that. Over those years the increase in personal income taxation that has accrued to the Commonwealth Government has come from two or three sources. This was well set out by Professor Percy Harris, formerly of the University of Queensland and now of the University of Townsville. The first source is the increased number of taxpayers. The second is the rise in money income. The third is the increased real severity of taxation. They are the 3 ingredients of the increased taxation that comes to the Commonwealth Government. Therefore it simply means that if taxation is to be altered or reduced, if some regard is to be had for the severity of taxation, the measures can only be applied at the third level where there is a measure of the real severity of taxation. 
It is interesting to note that Professor Harris, carrying the figures up to 1965-66  -  I have carried them on a couple of years later - demonstrates that only 29 per cent to 30 per cent of the increase in taxation accruing to the Government comes from an increase in the real severity of taxation. His calculations are extremely complicated, but they do have some merit. 
It simply means that if welfare is to be administered with respect to taxation, if taxation is to be reduced - and this has been the welfare programme of the Government - one can apply oneself only to the 29 or 30 per cent of the increase to which I have referred. This is what the Government has done. 
By making 3 different grades of taxation an attempt has been made to alter the areas where the taxation falls. Honourable members opposite might argue that more steps, should have been introduced in the taxation scale. That could well be. We are on a never ending scale here. It is like unemployment. You can never introduce sufficient steps to apply in vertical redistribution. You can never have unemployment sufficiently low to satisfy. Let it also be perfectly clear that there are more steps with respect to different income levels in the Australian taxation system than apply in almost any other country. 
The more steps there are the more differences you create between people of different income groups; the more vertical equity is observed. The Opposition has been making a case tonight that sufficient account has not been taken of the differences between income groups. It says there have been overall reductions in taxation applying over too wide a range. Now the honourable member for Melbourne Ports seems to contradict the basis on which so many of his confreres have been arguing tonight. Let me go a little further with respect to the taxation system in Australia. Is it unfair? We ask ourselves the question: What proportion of the total taxation and at what average rates of taxation do the majority of taxpayers operate, compared with the income taxation system, say, in the United States, the United Kingdom or any other country? Insofar as one can glean some data from the United Nations bulletins - they go up to only the year 1967, which I think corresponds to our financial year 1967-68 - it is perfectly clear that Australia has a fairer system than, for example, the United States. 
Let us apply our thoughts to nearly 60 per cent of those who pay taxation. They contribute the major bulk of the taxation. The average rate of taxation applying to those people a couple of years ago has changed in a rather progressive manner since then, but this comparison would be appropriate. In Australia the tax for that group was at a marginal rate ranging from 12 per cent to 27 per cent and the average rate was from 5 per cent to 15 per cent. In the United States the marginal rates for the bulk of taxpayers contributing the bulk of United States taxation were not 12 per cent to 27 per cent, as in Australia, but were rather 25 per cent to 37 per cent. Their average rates were not 5 per cent to 15 per cent as in this country. Rather they were 18 per cent to 24 per cent. That gives an idea of the sources that are contributing the major bulk of the taxation which accrues to the Commonwealth Government. That is the way in which one has to judge whether a taxation system is fair or whether it is appropriate. 
I have tried to indicate tonight what are some of the basic principles which have to animate any taxation system. The major one is still that it must ensure adequate economic growth. The second major principle that has to apply once that has been satisfied is that there should be appropriate redistribution. There could always be more redistribution, but the redistribution within this country is not bad. Even if one examines the state of poverty in this country, which is a measure of the redistribution of resources, one finds that poverty here is still one of the lowest levels in the world. For example, in the United Kingdom under the Labor Government it was found that between I I per cent and 14 per cent of households were at poverty level and it increased during the period that the Labor Government - the Democratic Socialists - had power. In the United States, where admittedly there is a great negro problem with respect to those in proverty, between 18 per cent and 19 per cent of households are living at poverty level. In Australia, even on the worst estimates, it is between 7 per cent and 8 per cent, lt is still too high but it is .not a bad effort. People should not knock this country all the time. Seven per cent to 8 per cent is too high but it is still one of the best levels of poverty in any part of the world. 1 suggest honourable members watch the level of poverty among different groups increase 
In South Australia while our friends have power in that State. The last time they were in power they were responsible for increasing the unemployment rate in South Australia by more than it had been increased in 2 decades. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I ask the honourable gentleman to address the Chair. 
I was under some provocation which on this occasion was understandable. We look .at the taxation system for what it is supposed to do, not what it cannot do. The Opposition has only one principle - it socks .everybody at high and low. income levels, it tries to claw back from those people, distribute it elsewhere and in fact commit the errors of the British Labour Government when it was in power for many years. What makes me so disturbed when I hear the Opposition speak of these things is that it does not seem to have learned anything from the British Chancellors of the Exchequer in the years 1946 to 1949 and in latter years. I would suggest with respect to the Opposition's platform that the Opposition should write some basic principles into the taxation system which it says it would restructure. If it did write some basic principles into the system and followed them it would find they would lead to very different results and very different judgments from those that have been proposed in this House tonight by the shadow Treasurer and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. We have to wait to hear what is proposed by the honourable member for Cunningham. 
Can the Minister for Defence indicate to the House the cor*rect position concerning reports of a decision by the United States of America to alter the draft as it applies to its armed forces? Can he indicate also the likely implications, both social and in the defence sense, for Australia were we to follow suit? 
It had not been my intention to speak on this series of Bills tonight, but the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has provided sufficient provocation for me to make at least one or two comments on his speech. I have been intrigued by the attitude which underlies the honourable member's speech, in that he was concerned about the position of the States in the federation. One could almost say that the unstated presumption of what he was talking about tonight was States rights. He was concerned that the States would not have sufficient power to determine their own future and that by various means the States have had to develop a tax such as this in order to pursue their own paths of progress. But of course the States have always opposed a tax whereby they would have been able to pursue their own paths of progress. 
Let me just make this point, and I think it is appropriate: The Party opposite is not a party that has ever understood State rights. It is a party which, particularly in financial matters, is completely devoted to the abolition and the denigration of States rights altogether. So that is the necessary basis upon which one is to understand the contribution of the honourable member for Adelaide. I have been intrigued with one or two of his other comments. I shall speak for only 8 or 9 minutes, but these things need to be said. It is true that no taxation is acceptable. I do not know of any taxation that is acceptable. I know nobody who pays a tax which is acceptable to the payer. But one has to look at the alternative to a tax not being paid. The Commonwealth gave an undertaking in respect of the receipts duty tax. It was a very generous undertaking which followed the meeting of the Commonwealth and the State Premiers earlier this year. The Commonwealth was quite incredibly generous to the States. 
I fail to understand why anyone should raise objections to that series of circumstances, to the generosity on the part of the Commonwealth to the States earlier this year and to a more than generous attitude in relation to the States involved in this series of Bills. I do not want to go into the figures. They are there. Anybody who analyses the Budget knows quite well that the room for manoeuvre by the Commonwealth in respect of the Budget was narrowed significantly by its generosity to the States earlier this year. So we come to the tax itself. The Opposition says it is regressive. What it is regressive in relation to is never made perfectly clear. It is like the amendment that was moved by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in relation to the income tax Bills, that those Bills should be withdrawn and redrafted because they were regressive. Regressive with respect to what? The income tax Bills simply meant that those on higher incomes paid higher taxes, both average and marginal taxes. No tax is regressive where one pays a higher taxation, average and marginal, as one's resources increase. I suggest that honourable members opposite have not quite understood what the word 'regressive' means. When they apply it to the receipts duty tax they completely undercut the amendment upon which they voted earlier in respect of the income taxation measures. The alleged regressiveness in respect to these matters- 
It has been an interesting experience to listen to the Opposition's proposal for discussion of this as a matter of public importance this afternoon. It has been interesting because for almost the first time we have had an example of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  intruding into fields which are a little foreign to him. We saw in his intrusion an essential contradiction between his understanding of the economic process and that understanding which we would hope would have been shown by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  The contradiction has been interesting for a number of reasons. This would be the first debate concerned with alterations in prices which has not touched upon the employment obligations of a country. It is the first debate initiated by the Opposition for many years in which Opposition members completely ignored the effects on employment and unemployment of following the policies that the Opposition would ask the Government to follow. 
I was intrigued to hear the honourable member for Adelaide still affectionately holding the theories of Professor Galbraith. I find this intriguing because I would challenge the Opposition, if it embraces Professor Galbraith, to indicate whether it will embrace his wages and income policies and whether it will embrace the wages and income policies in Canada, the country which the Opposition so often invokes but which it understands so little. Honourable members opposite invoke Professor Galbraith's theories time and time again in respect of economic considerations and matters. Let them embrace Professor Galbraith in his understanding of the employment obligations of a country, and realise that those countries which have followed his advice have suffered incredibly great unemployment distress. 
Let me go further. The essential condition in any consideration of the change in price levels is related to production. It has a relation between production and the demand for those things which are produced. Put in its simplest terms it amounts to that. While we are concerned with inflation we ask ourselves: Is the Opposition concerned with inflation? During the Budget debate earlier this year I challenged the shadow treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne  Ports  (Mr Crean),  who understands these matters in contradistinction to the 3 gentlemen who have spoken this afternoon, to indicate what was his policy concerning inflation. He has never stated it. The honourable member for Dawson fled this afternoon from stating any policy concerning inflation, as did the honourable member for Cunningham and the honourable member for Adelaide. But their mentor, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, had this to say about inflation in his speech on the Budget 2 years ago. It is quite a revealing comment. He said: 
I suggest that there is in Australia  an  undue obsession with inflation. 
There we have his words. They have been forgotten by those gentlemen who spoke this afternoon. During a later speech on this year's Budget the honourable member had this to say, in refuting the concern with inflation that clearly underlay the Government's Budget strategy: 
I want to say something about some of the things that are not being looked at. The word inflation' seems to be becoming the most used word to describe the situation as we find it. 
That was uttered with sarcasm and contempt. 
The second one was this year. The honourable member is a little out of date. So there was supposed to be a continuing fund of knowledge available to the Opposition, but it has not acted upon it. The honourable member for Dawson this afternoon in concerning himself with inflation said nothing about banking policy in terms of the philosophy of money and money supply in the community. He said nothing concerning overall Budget strategy. In fact in regard to a Budget which was concerned with inflation he has been responsible for opposing almost every revenue measure which was part of the social service programme and which were part of the Government's attitude towards inflation. After having tried to wreck and erode a Budget which was concerned with inflation the Opposition in this House says: 'Well, let us forget all this; we are now concerned with inflation'. The other matter to which I refer is the overall economic policy of a government. A government has to be concerned with production. If we do not have production we will assuredly have inflation - that is the lesson of history - unless we have grave depression. With respect to production, the attitude of the Opposition is to say: 'Let us reduce overall working hours by one-eighth'. The Opposition would reduce working hours by one-eighth, by over 12 per cent. This is how it would destroy the production side of the equation that is always concerned with inflation. The Opposition went through a type of rationalisation which had no relation ro the matter of public importance. I was a little disturbed. In referring to consumer prices and the alteration in consumer prices it is quite clear that the Opposition has not examined the ingredients of the latest variation in consumer prices. The ingredient which has caused the highest rise in consumer prices in any capital city in Australia is fares. The ingredient of fares in the consumer price index in Brisbane rose by .6 index points. That fare rise was imposed by a Labor council. Then we look at the other ingredients in the consumer price index with the highest rise and we see mattters such as rates. In both these ingredients the Labor Party has shown itself more capable of increasing the index points, of increasing prices, than have other parties. 
The Opposition comes into this House and raises a matter of public importance. On top of its misunderstanding of economic policy and banking and monetary policy, it has not even gone to the trouble of examining the basic data upon which  a  matter such as this should depend. There is an excellent reason for this. I go to one last point which is appropriate, that is, the matter of wages. An article by  Mr Sheehan  of the Australian National University has been quoted by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, with great approbation. The article, which appears on page 12 of the 'Australian Financial Review' of 13th October, makes it perfectly clear that if wages get out of hand we can expect to see rises in prices in the subsequent quarters.  Mr Sheehan  in his article quotes quite clearly an article by Professor Pitchford in the 'Australian Economic Papers' of 2 years ago. Then Sheehan says: 
May be we would be justified in expecting the rate of increase of prices to abate by the end of the year . . . Without going into this whole difficult question of how to assess the impact of the Budget on the economy, two points can be made which are consonant with the general theme of this article. 
For this reason I think the problem which needs to be focussed on now concerns the potential movement in economic aggregates in real terms rather than prices. That is a simple way of saying 'production', lt is in its attack on production that the Opposition is culpable. As long as it makes an attack on production it will make inflation worse than it otherwise would be. After all, the experience of its own people in office, of Democratic Socialist parties in office, makes it quite clear that the Opposition has a love of inflation which this Government has not had. This Government has had a policy to keep it low. At the same time, and most significantly and importantly, it has tried to accompany that obligation with one significant point - the policy ignored by the Opposition this afternoon. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. It follows a question asked yesterday concerning the 3rd Battalion in relation to which the Minister said he would make further inquiries. Did members of that Battalion do as was suggested yesterday and can the Minister indicate what significance these actions have for Australia's defence forces? 
We are debating concurrently 4 important measures. The Bills and some of the proposals which have been outlined by the Ministers introducing them represent greater changes in financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States than we have seen for a long time. That being the case, I think one has to say quite clearly that it is almost impossible to debate 4 Bills of this nature in the space of 20 minutes. However, having said that one has to let the case go. There are obviously pressures upon time which are beyond our control. The 4 Bills represent a very great change in financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Underlying them is the simple fact, as is clearly deductible from the last Budget, that revenue grants to the States from the 
Commonwealth have increased very greatly in an absolute sense and a proportionate sense. To illustrate this 1 merely refer to the Budget speech of 18th August and to table No. 3 in the appendix which shows the receipts and outlays of the Commonwealth Budget in national accounting form. When one looks at the Budget expenditures and the grants to the States as a proportion of Budget expenditures over recent years, it is clear that a much greater effort is being transmitted by the Commonwealth in terms of financial assistance to the States. For example, in 1968-69 the grants to the States comprised 25 per cent of the total expenditures in the Budget. In 1969-70 they comprised 26.4 per cent, and this year - this rather understates the situation because there was the matter of the receipts tax - 29.4 per cent of the total Budget expenditures will consist of grants to the States. So while State Premiers and others may complain that they are not gaining all that they desire, it should be appreciated that they are doing very well both in an absolute sense and in a proportionate sense. 
I should like to say something about each of the 4 Bills but I want to dwell rather more significantly upon the new system of revenue grants by the Commonwealth to the States. The old taxation reimbursement and financial assistance formulas have been brought up to date. I would like then to dwell for a few moments upon the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The States Grants (Debt Charges Assistance) Bill is simply designed to write off an amount of State debts of up to $l,000m in 20 per cent instalments over a 5-year period. In his second reading speech the Minister for Immigration and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  stated clearly that this Bill provides for grants to the States in respect of the interest and sinking fund charges on a parcel of State debts amounting to SI, 000m. One-fifth of the debt is to be paid in each of the succeeding 5 years. 
One or 2 moments should be spent in asking whether the repeated claims that State debts have been an increasing burden upon State Budgets are valid claims. I appreciate that as soon as that question is stated a distinction has to be made between Government securities on issue and State debt, but there is an already established relationship between the movements in Government securities on issue and State debt. If one then has a look at the gross debt charges in relation to current Budget expenditures by the States it is clear that the gross debt charges as a burden on State Budget expenditures have been decreasing and not increasing. I will not go into all the details concerning what comprises gross debt charges for the simple reason that I have only 20 minutes in which to speak. lt has been claimed that very little assistance has been given by the Commonwealth in relation to debt charges. Assistance is given in this Bill. State debt charges have been acknowledged in terms of the revenue assistance that has been given to the States in former years. This has applied particularly with respect to some of the funding problems of Tasmania and the alteration in the special assistance grants which have subsequently been given to Tasmania. Some of these special assistance grants have, as we know, now been written into the amount which Tasmania can claim under the financial assistance grants. However, over a number of years some real .assistance has been given to the States in terms of their debt charges. Under the financial Agreement an amount of over $15m is to be paid as a contribution towards the interest payable on the State debts. Under the Financial Agreement there is also an annual sinking fund contribution at the rate of 0.25 per cent per annum over 53 years on all cash loans raised for the States. Assistance is given by the Commonwealth to the States also under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement Acts, and rather more recently assistance was given to compensate the States for interest costs as a result of the removal of the income tax rebate on interest on Commonwealth loans. So this is not the first time that the problem of the debt charges that may rest upon the States has been acknowledged; and I have no doubt it will not be the last occasion on which this will occur. 
The second Bill to which I would refer is the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  referred to some of these Bills as involving book-keeping arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. In a sense they are bookkeeping arrangements; in another sense they represent a different control over resources involved. But I do not disagree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in that description. I want now to come to probably the most interesting Bill which we are considering and that is the States Grants Bill itself - the Bill related to the financial grants formula. This is the formula which contains a population multiplier and a wage increase multiplier. One can argue whether the wage increase is the appropriate multiplier or whether one should involve household expenditure as a multiplier and so on. One can argue about the speed with which the wage increase multiplier is utilised to raise the amount of grants per State. That has been done in the past, as one can see from reading the transcript of proceedings of Premiers' Conferences. It has been argued very capably by  Sir Henry  Bolte of Victoria, and he has been accommodated satisfactorily, too. 
The intriguing features of this Bill are the number of ways in which accommodation has been made for particular States. New South Wales and Victoria had an amount contributed to them which now is written into their own bases for escalation of the grants. Queensland has an annual amount written into the grant for further escalation. Western Australia and Tasmania have been considered. Through the special assistance grants South Australia has been considered. One does not need to argue about the multitude of specific arrangements that have been made between the Commonwealth and States; one needs merely say that they do reflect, in a sense, the differing pressures, political as well as economic, involving the Commonwealth and the States. Insofar as these pressures have been resolved - and they were resolved in the middle of the year - the Commonwealth has been very generous to the States. This is not said merely as an unctuous statement without meaning. Bearing that in mind, it is rather a one-sided argument to say that more and more of the appeals which are traditionally made to State governments for assistance - and this is applied to local authorities - should instead be diverted to the Commonwealth. To make that case and not be aware of what has happened this year and what is proposed to occur in these Bills is to make a case without balance and without the necessary judgment. 
The 2 features of this Bill which I find the most intriguing and the most interesting are these: They involve the position of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I will read from the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration and the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  He said:   . . in the event that any of the 4 less populous States considered that the additional per capita grunts for New South Wales and Victoria would adversely affect their ability to provide services of a standard comparable wilh those in New South Wales and Victoria, it would be open to them to make an application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for a grant in addition to their share of the financial assistance grants. 
That is a new proposal, and it is a pretty fair proposal. The second duty which is set aside to be performed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission is indicated by the Minister who said: 
I might interpose here that the question of the distribution of the general revenue grants between the States is one of considerable complexity. It was for this reason that it was suggested by the Commonwealth at the Premiers' Conference that, in addition to its responsibility for recommending annual special grants to claimant Stales, the Grants Commission might also have the task of investigating and recommending on the distribution of the general revenue grunts between all the States for purposes of the quinquennial reviews of the arrangements. We are still consulting with the States on this suggestion. 
They are 2 incredibly important suggestions which should not be ignored. They are incredibly important because they involve the Commonwealth Grants Commission. If one looks around the world in terms of the position of states in federations or the position of provinces in states, the Commonwealth Grants Commission and ils proceedings are not duplicated anywhere else. The level of the discussion and the level of the expertise that is involved in the Grants Commisssion's determinations are levels which, 1 think, ought to be made appropriate to relations between the States themselves. I hope that both of these aspects of the deliberations of the Grants Commission will be utilised and expanded. I might say also that having watched the deliberations of this body over a number of years it is clear to me that this Grants Commission, without reflecting upon other Grants Commissions, seems to have a level of expertise in its own findings which is superior to those of some in former years. I leave it at that. 
I would ask, in relation to my own State of Queensland, what does one do in respect of the Commonwealth Grants Commission? It is clear from the Minister's speech that if the Grants Commission is to be used to look after quinquennial distributions as between the States - in other words, if it is to be concerned with horizontal equality between the States in terms of standards and services - the States should submit to that body ali the evidence which it would require. I am well aware that States such as Western Australia and Tasmania, and South Australia this year taking advantage of the first proposal in that speech, have been justly treated over a long time. I would request that my own State make an appeal to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 1 am always encouraged to suggest this course of action when f remember that States, such as the larger ones which have a great deal of political pressure and a lot of political power to develop, do not go out of their way to allow their officers to submit evidence before a body of this nature. The very fact that they do not go out of their way to do this is a reflection that they would rather play their part in the political process than in the economic considerations of differences as between the States. lt is obvious, when one looks at the series of witnesses mentioned at the back of the Commonwealth Grants Commission's reports, that there are not many witnesses proposed to come from the larger States. 
Then we come to another problem. If the Commonwealth Grants Commission is to function in this way, to what extent can it compel, invite or dispose officers to give evidence before it? I would suggest that for the Grants Commission to become, in effect, a States' fiscal commission, one should give the Grants Commission an amount of money to distribute. If there is an amount of money to distribute as between the States, evidence will be submitted, and very quickly. After all, this is the only way in which the equalising process can be determined. It is fair to say that on the old financial assistance grants formula itself one could not write sufficient variables in it to take account of different taxable capacities between the States and details, different population compositions -of States and details, and different educational efforts between States. All of those -capacities could not be written into a simple formula, but they can be considered by the Grants Commission. So, following on the invitation given to the Commission, I have made a few calculations in relation to ray own State. I have looked at its taxable capacity compared with other States. I have looked at its effort in relation to other States. J have looked also at the different costs of administration of social services according to dispersal of population. lt seems to me that whilst South Australia has been given an advance grant of $5m this year, and it is possible that the completion grant may be a positive one rather than a negative one. Queensland, for example, if it submitted evidence, might reasonably obtain to it a grant of between $15m and $20m. I know that in that State there is some concern that an application to the Commission might involve the surrender of a free hospital system, lt would not. lt only means that a State would not gain extra revenue because it has a service for which it does not charge in its own territory compared with a service which does invite a charge in another State. But that does not mean there would be any dictation with respect to State social service policies. 
The final reason why I am attracted to this new use of the Commonwealth Grants Commission is related to the reasons given by former Prime Minister Lyons when he introduced the Act appropriate to this body nearly 40 years ago in 1933. He said: 
The Government now desires that a comprehensive investigation shall be made by an impartial body which does not owe allegiance to cither the Commonwealth or the States. 
believe that if an impartial body of this type was utilised in a wider capacity, as has been foreshadowed, political and economic pressures would be allowed to develop where they could best operate and economic pressures would have to operate within their own field and not utilise political pressures also. So in looking at these 4 Bills one must say that the level of grants which have been made by the Commonwealth to the States has greatly increased. The Commonwealth has been very generous. Under those conditions there is less of a case for attempting to transfer economic and financial responsibilities of intimate detail to the Commonwealth than in previous years. But most significantly, the 2 new principles, even under the old financial assistance grants, are ones involving the Grants Commission. These principles should be utilised in respect of the Commission whether the Commission remains under its present name or becomes instead a State fiscal commission - names do not matter much. 
I ask only that the evidence which determines the level of giants by the Commonwealth to the States be considered in scientific detail, if that is done the States, large or small, would receive a level of grant appropriate to their efforts, particularly their efforts to appreciate their own standards of public service. I make one last point: Conditions in the Australian States differ less than they do in any other federation. It is obvious from work done by Professor Williams in Chicago that the levels of standards as between the poorest and richest Australian States differ less than they do in any other large federation in the world. That fact alone illustrates that there is an awareness of the principle of horizontal equality. I think that if the principles to which I have referred were adopted, that principle could find an even better application than it does at the moment. 
I have seen the study, number 3 in a series promoted by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies. It was drawn to my attention within recent days. It has also been drawn to the attention of the Department of Housing which has examined it in some detail. I know that the honourable member will appreciate that the Commonwealth Government has had an interest in the activities of the Institute, and, together with the State governments, has helped bear some of the administrative expenses of the Institute in the pursuit of studies such as the one which has just been completed. I understand that the study is to be a precursor to a number of seminars concerning urban renewal and urban studies, and insofar as it will promote appropriate, sensible and responsible discussion in this field it is to be accepted and respected. I would also expect the honourable member for Reid to take appropriate notice of the results of the study. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I regret to have to inform the honourable member that the sources from which applicants for home savings grants obtain finance to purchase their homes  have  not been recorded in departmental statistics. As  more  than 150,000 individual applications were approved in the period 1966-70, I am sure he will appreciate that it would be a very time consuming task to  re-examine  all of these to extract the information he seeks and to tabulate it. For this reason I am sorry that I cannot provide the details. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount of grant available to Queensland from the commencement of the scheme to the end of the present financial year is $1,340,000. 
Four. (3 and 4) Church Street, Zillmere (4 units): Sebring Street, Holland Park (6 units): Abel Smith Parade, Mt Isa (2 units); Bilyana Street. Hawthorne (6 units) - a total of 18 units. 
$3.70 per week. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is no waiting period for assistance to purchase existing houses under the War Service Homes Act. 
No. As there is no waiting period for War Service Homes finance there has been no necessity to carry out a check of interest rates charged on temporary finance. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The term 'housing backlog' may be interpreted in different ways. For instance, the backlog as it existed after the 1939-45 war was caused mainly by the inability of the housing industry to meet the demands upon it. There is no housing backlog in this sense in. Australia today and, in fact, Australia is one of the world's better-housed countries, lt is also possible to postulate a theoretical backlog of dwellings according to various assumptions concerning population occupancy ratios and standards of accommodation. In this case the size of the backlog depends upon the assumptions made. Exercises of this latter kind are not regarded by the Government as meaningful and for this reason are not carried out. 
It is correct that the rate of interest chargeable on advances under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement has increased within the last 2 to 3 years. As the Leader of the Opposition knows, the rate of interest chargeable is at present 1 per cent below the long term bond rate. 
The source of loan funds is very complicated. The sources of funds which State housing authorities spend on their own housing activities are very complicated; they vary between the States. These questions are related to their own loan programmes. As I said, the present rate of interest chargeable on advances under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement is about 6 per cent, which is 1 per cent below the long term bond rate. 
I have seen the booklet put out by the Brotherhood of St Laurence in Melbourne. 1 have looked hurriedly at the data in that booklet and the proposals. It may reflect the situation in Victoria or its own analysis, but it does not apply to all the States of the Commonwealth. The economic rental chargeable on housing commission homes varies according to the calculations made by the various States. Some of the States do their calculations according to their own traditions. I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that the Commonwealth is very well aware of the rise in economic rentals which has resulted from an increase in the long term bond rate. I can also assure the Leader of the Opposition that everything will continue to be done by the Commonwealth to ensure that the costs of homes are kept within reasonable limits, having regard to the social content of housing and the fact that housing is also part of the economic process of this country. To that end I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that the commitments by the Commonwealth to reduce the costs of housing, which not only result from a lowering of interest rates but which also come about through subsidies given by the Commonwealth, which also flow from the other interests of the Commonwealth in housing, such as the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, and which also result from the war service homes advances scheme, will be retained and these attempts to reduce costs will be seen to apply in an economic situation which involves anti-inflationary measures and antiinflationary processes. These matters will be, of course, part of the consideration at a subsequent meeting which has to be pursued between the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Housing before the renegotiation of another agreement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) Dwellings (houses and flats), and percentage of total dwellings, completed by State housing authorities in 1969-70. 
The latest index of the cost of materials used in housing shows a significant rise. Between the months of December and February it showed a rise of nearly 3 per cent, which is higher than in the past. As the honourable member has mentioned, the materials covered by the index are cement, bricks, timber products and many others. The honourable member will be delighted to know that the rises which have been experienced over 1, 2 or 3 months are often classified as spasmodic rises. The cost of materials used in housing is not expected to increase at that rate over a long period. The honourable member suggested what has been the experience over recent years. To put the matter into context, the experience over a 5-year period shows that there has not been a rise of this nature but a rise of about 17 per cent, which is a far slower rate of increase in the cost of materials than has occurred, for example, in indices of average earnings. 
I can assure the honourable member that the Government is well aware of the problems of household construction and of rises in costs of the materials used. Within the limits of its powers, certainly in relation to the general economic situation, the Government is doing all it can to keep these rises within the levels which are appropriate for total equilibrium within the Australian economy. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill, which is a transitional measure, is to obtain parliamentary authority for the Commonwealth to make advances to the States for housing for a period from 1st July 1971. The need for the legislation has arisen in this way. Under agreed arrangements, given expression in the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreements, the Commonwealth makes advances to the States for housing at a concessional rate of interest, currently 1 per cent below the long term bond rate. Advances under the existing Agreement may be made only until June 30th this year. It will not be possible to negotiate a new Agreement with the States in time for presentation to the Parliament before the end of the present sittings. 
The States are, however, substantially dependent upon advances from the Commonwealth for maintaining their housing operations. It has been a practice of some States to draw part of their housing advances in the early part of each financial year. Some of them may wish to do so early in 1971-72, and the Bill provides the necessary authority. Might I say that the Government attaches considerable importance to the form and extent of our assistance to the States for housing. Very careful consideration has been and is being given to this matter. I expect shortly to be in a position to commence negotiations with the States and to reach agreed conclusions in good time for introduction of appropriate legislation early in the budget sittings. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Uren) adjourned. 
in reply - Perhaps it would be appropriate for one or two moments to return to the Bill which is before the House, and merely to remind honourable members I will read the title of the Bill. It is: 
A Bill for an Act relating to financial assistance to the States for the purpose of housing. 
The Bill is designed to make financial assistance available to the States over the months subsequent to 1st July and until such time as a new Commonwealth and State housing agreement is passed by this House, which we hope will be as early as possible in the Budget session. It is in relation to the Bill that I shall direct my remarks, because that is the matter before the House. 
Before I deal in some measure with points that have been raised in relation to the Bill let me say that I thought that the attack that was made upon the honourable member for Michell  (Mr Irwin)  was an unfair attack upon a person who, in respect of housing, has shown an incredibly kind nature and an incredibly great understanding of those who require housing. Unlike so many of those who have criticised him he has had actual experience in the field. Those who know something of the development of the areas west of Sydney will know that he has had experience in the housing field. It is worth recalling that the honourable member for Mitchell drew, from his own experience, 2 points which are worth recapitulating. He made it abundantly clear that even though costs of housing and the costs of all factors associated with housing development have risen significantly, contrary to the philosophy of the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition, local influences in this field can have a great and pervasive effect. We know from experience that such matters as the supply of and demand for factors that are appropriate to housing have a big influence on the difference in costs and the difference in escalation of costs which occur in various parts of the Commonwealth in various local authority areas. The honourable member for Mitchell drew upon his own experience in that field. 
The second matter to which he referred, and which is worth recapitulating, is that by this amendment members of the Opposition clearly are trying to play politics. 
The proposition that a Canberra should be built almost everywhere in Australia, where the Opposition would suggest it should be built is ludicrous. It is against common sense, but it is a proposition which finds its way into the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who led for the Opposition. It is not appropriate and it is designed to attract some of our sympathy. 
The honourable member for Reid, who is interjecting, made one or two points appropriate to the Bill. He referred to a report from the Brotherhood of St Laurence concerning rents that are paid for certain flats and dwellings in Melbourne. I think that the figure he mentioned was $22. The honourable member recently received an answer to a question on this matter. The question asked the Government to supply details of the weekly cost for a 3-bedroom flat or dwelling and it was directed particularly to Victoria. The answer which has been supplied to the honourable member indicates: 
It was within the last week - very recently. 
The honourable member may go to his room and acquire it. The information is easily obtained from the Housing Commission of Victoria. Rents paid on such houses and flats range between $10.40 and $12.30 a week. There may be a slight escalation of those figures but there is a great difference between rents of that level and rents of over $20 a week. The charges for rents and the charges for houses which are being acquired from a State housing authority are determined by that authority. Many of the commissions make different determinations according to the source of their funds and according to averaging or other processes which they might make between houses built at different times. The most interesting part of the argument delivered by the Opposition in relation to this matter is the recapitulation of the policy of the Chifley Government. It was mentioned by every  speaker  for the Opposition except the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  There may be an undue sensi tivity in that respect. However, let me remind the House that the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement which was negotiated by the Chifley Government had 2 features which it is appropriate to mention. It placed practically the complete emphasis in its policy on rental housing and it applied an interest rate to the loans and advances made available to the States of between one-eighth per cent and onequarter per cent below the long term bond rate. The concessional interest rate being applied by this Government is 1 per cent below the long term bond rate. I think that fact ought to be remembered by the House because it is appropriate to a correct understanding of the position. 
Reverting to the interest rate argument, the final point I make is this: It is now demonstrated that in any day and age interest rates are not something which can be completely insulated from what occurs elsewhere in the economy. The days when one thought that interest rates could be completely isolated are gone. As was demonstrated by  Mr Phillips  of the Reserve Bank of Australia in the R. C. Mills lecture delivered on Wednesday night, those who would suggest that we ought to revert to interest rate policies of former days have at the same moment to concede that they must adopt the fiscal policies of certain days. They cannot exist in isolation. 
Interest rates have been held on war service homes and that is to our credit. The honourable member should be delighted that we did not hold the policies of the Australian Labor Party in respect to the concessional long term bond rates. The country should be grateful that we did not hold the small concession which was given in that respect. If we accept the contention that interest rates should be rigid and completely isolated from what occurs elsewhere in the economy we are going to return to the days when attemps were made to control interest rates under, for example, the British Labour governments in the years after the second world war. We will return to some of those policies which were utterly disastrous in terms of capital investment in the country, utterly disastrous with respect to the rigidity which they built into the British economic system, and utterly disas- trous with respect to the ultimate benefits which could be given to the British people under such a policy. Those policies do not apply today. Any sensible fiscal or monetary management in an economy has to argue that such policies do not apply today. 
The honourable member for Chifley was concerned about bank advances for housing and that the calls to statutory reserve deposits from the banking system in respect of appropriate money management should not occur to the extent to which they occurred, and that there should be willy nilly a release from statutory reserve deposits so that banks can make an appropriate effort in the housing field. If the honourable member were aware of what could almost be termed contemporary history with respect to housing he would be aware that in the middle of last year the banking system and particularly the savings banks increased their activities in housing so significantly as to take up the slack which developed because lending from various other institutions decreased greatly. During last year the banks, in terms of housing, provided the flexibility which enabled housing construction to proceed at as even a level as was in any way possible. Other honourable members have raised various points in relation to this matter. At this hour I do not want to take up too much of the time of the House. I would like to make one last point which is appropriate. The amendment which was moved by the Opposition will be rejected for 2 principal reasons. The philosophy of the amendment is a completely centralist philosophy and it has been- 
It has been a completely centralist philosophy. If the honourable member would like I shall spell it for him. It is perfectly clear to those who are aware of what has occurred with respect to housing and &lt;the factors which go into housing that local influences in a whole number of fields can be the most pervasive and most effective influences in many ways in respect to the cost of that housing. They occur, of course, under an economic umbrella which is outside local control but which is within the limitations of the Commonwealth Government. 
The second reason why this amendment is to be rejected - and one has to judge the sincerity of amendments in this House - is that quite clearly there is a lack of sincerity in the amendment. Let me demonstrate the lack of sincerity. If the Opposition was concerned with costs in this field, if it was concerned with increased housing costs, which I know have occured, and if it was really concerned with those things that make up housing costs, it would be concerned not only with interest rates but also with insurance rates and the grants that are appropriate to the levels of housing. 
In order to expose the lack of sincerity of the Opposition in this respect I refer the Opposition to a debate that occurred in another place last week, on 21st April. If members of the Opposition are concerned with housing costs they should examine closely the Hansard record of proceedings in another place at page 935; the circumstances in which members of the Opposition voted as they did on that occasion and why those members effectively rejected the propositions concerning the levels of the grants for housing. If honourable members opposite make this examination they will realise that the actions of those honourable senators on that occasion ran counter to a philosophy which has been presumably- 
The honourable member for Reid, who is interjecting, made one or two points appropriate to the Bill. He referred to a report from the Brotherhood of St Laurence concerning rents that are paid for certain flats and dwellings in Melbourne. I think that the figure he mentioned was $23. The honourable member recently received an answer to a question on this matter. The question asked the Government to supply details of the weekly cost for a 3-bedroom flat or dwelling. The question was particularly appropriate to Victoria. The answer which has been supplied to the honourable member indicates- 
It was within the last week - very recently. 
The honourable member may go to his room and acquire it. 
In my personal explanation on Thursday, 29th April, after the Minister had completed his speech I said: 
I claim to have been misrepresented. In the course of my speech tonight I said that the cost of a Victorian Housing Commission dwelling, according to the Brotherhood of St Laurence, is $22 a week for a 3-bedroom flat. On 1st April 1971 I placed on the notice paper a question in regard to Housing Commission rents. I willread the question in a moment. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  stated quite falsely and untruthfully that I had received an answer several days ago. 
To that the Minister interjected: 
No, I did not say that. 
I then went on to say in my personal explanation: 
The Hansard record will show that the Minister said that if I checked my desk I would find I had received the. reply. 
I then went on to draw his attention to the fact that the question was still on the notice paper for that day and I read it from the notice paper of 29th April. I concluded my remarks by saying: 
The Minister has said that he has supplied an answer and that it has been on my desk for several days. That statement is completely untrue and I ask him to withdraw it immediately. He made the statement that a reply had been given and it was false. 
In this place credibility is an important factor. I will deal only with 4 alterations that were made. The first sentence with which I wish to deal reads: 
 The honourable member recently received an answer to a question on this matter. 
The Minister changed the word 'received' to 'requested'. The second proposition that he misrepresented was: 
The answer which has been supplied to the honourable member indicates- 
The Minister completely deleted the words which has been supplied to the honourable member'. I then interjected and said: 
What date was that? 
The Minister replied: 
It was within the last week - very recently. 
This has been altered to read: 
It was within the last week - or, rather, recently that you put the question. 
I then interjected and said: 
I have not seen it. 
The Minister then replied: 
The honourable member may go to his room and acquire it. 
This was altered to read: 
The honourable member should soon acquire it. 
This is a complete falsification of the record. I ask that the record be corrected and I wish to state here and now that I in no way reflect on the Hansard staff and I thank them for their courtesy and assistance. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS (Lilley- Minister for Housing) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The misunderstanding which arose in relation to the interjection by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and my answer to it during the debate last Thursday night was due to a. misunderstanding on my own part in that I thought that the answer to a question which 1 had signed had in fact been sent to the room of the honourable member for Reid. That was a genuine misunderstanding. The subsequent alterations merely in the sense of Hansard were all related to that point. They were alterations in relation to tense and alterations which were subsequent to the statement I made that the honourable member for Reid had received the answer to the question. The alterations to the typescript of Hansard were made with that understanding of my own and I sustain that point. As it remains I would suggest that both the interjection and the rejoinder to the interjection do not make sense. It- was with the intention of making sense out of nonsense that in fact the alteration was made. I did .discuss this matter with the honourable member for Reid before coming into the chamber this afternoon. I have discussed the matter with Hansard and I have indicated that both the interjection and the answer should remain as they were originally as this is the desire of the honourable member for Reid even though I still suggest that there are a number of illogicalities and non-sequiturs in both situations. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a further personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Housing Commission of Victoria increased ' its interest rates for house sales from 4 per cent to 6 per cent with effect from 1st January 1971. 
The new rate includes a component of  per cent for administration. Where a house purchaser has availed himself of the death benefit cover a charge of i per cent is added, making a total interest charge of 7 per cent. 
Rents charged by the Housing Commission of Victoria for three-bedroom accommodation (houses and flats) in the Melbourne metropolitan area range from $10.40 to $12.30 per week. These charges have applied since 20th September 1970. 
Weekly rentals charged by State housing authorities for recently completed three-bedroom brick-veneer houses in metropolitan areas, are: 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Bill as they are obviously related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Housing Commission, Victoria, on 11th November 1970, and the Queensland Housing Commission on 16th November, 1970. The State Housing Commission, Western Australia took a direct part in the drafting of the code, the Commission being the Commonwealth's agent for the design and construction of War Service Homes in that State. 
Yes, the Australian Mutual Provident Society. 
(a) 13-15th July 1970,11-13th November 1970 and 17-19th March 1971. 
At the meetings in July, Series 2 of the Model Uniform Building Code, dealing with fire openings, fire separation and egress was finalised. This series was forwarded to the Local Government Administrations on 10th December. At the meeting in November, Series 3 and 4 of the Code were finalised. Series 3 deals with chimneys and fireplaces, and fire fighting services. Series 4 deals with structural provisions. Series 3 and 4 are being prepared for issue to Local Government Administrations. At the meeting in March, Series 5 dealing with drainage and dampness, room sizes, light, ventilation and noise was finalised. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The October 1969 issue of the Industrial Design Council of Australia Delegate Report contains details of the prize-winning entry which is described as 'a self-contained villa-unit such as one might find at a motel, mining site, temporary air-field, ski or beach resort.' It is said that the economy of the units is not of consequence _ in city areas but cost advantages increase in relation to the distance from centres of population. The same report refers to the thermal barrier provided by the plastic construction as an advantage in both summer and winter in keeping temperatures stable. The ability to withstand very high wind loads and to remain stable has been tested by an independent authority. The manufacturer claims that construction and all other specifications are in accordance with local rules and regulations. 
Although the abovementioned report emphasises that the prize-winning entry was judged as a prototype for a system, rather than as a finished product, and states that it was the invention of the system which scored so highly rather than the manner in which it has been carried out, it recognises that this transportable home could have an important benefit in providing comfortable living conditions for those engaged in the exploitation of Australia's untapped- resources. It adds that the units have a similar advantage of mobility ' to a caravan, with the additional fact that they are larger and of more permanent construction. 
and (5) The concept has been noted as a particularly interesting development, but it is not a function of the Department to engage in evaluations of, or to give ' special encouragement to, individual commercial activities. . 
Repatriation Department: Artificial Limb and Appliance Section (Question No.  3039)  Mr Jacobi  asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Does the artificial limb and appliance section of his department provide appliances and prosthetics for civilians. 
If so, can be provide details of the costs and method of payment involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No date has yet been fixed. As I indicated in reply to his Question No. 2446 a meeting will .be arranged as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No credit union has as yet made formal application for approval. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No. 2) 1970 as they* are obviously associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 29th September 1970 in an address to the Building and Construction Forum in Melbourne, my predecessor,  Senator the Hon.  Dame Annabelle Rankin, D.B.E., did say that: 'One of the major aims of our housing contribution in the next few years will be to encourage the States to provide decent housing for lower income families who are unable to obtain satisfactory private rental accommodation, or are paying more for it than they can really afford. The housing of these people must be given a high priority.' 
The main contribution by the Commonwealth Government towards this end is througb the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement and more recently through the Dwellings for Aged Pensioners Scheme. The Commonwealth Government has . continued to provide assistance under these 2. provisions. Active consideration is also being given, to the future offer of housing assistance to the States after the expiry of the period of advances under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
(a) The numbers of dwellings completed . by each State . housing authority, using funds from all sources, in each of the last three years and in the year 1954-55 were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. The Brotherhood of St Laurence report which stated the economic rental on a 3- bedroom flat to be $22:20 went on to explain that the Victorian Housing Commission's policy of averaging rents cushions the effect of high current costs for occupants of new dwellings. In short there is a difference between economic rental and rent actually charged. 
See answer (2). 
Mineral Exploration at Woomera (Question No. 3084) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have arranged for approaches to be made to theappropriate State authorities and I shall pass on to the honourable member such information as they are able to provide. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Extensions of the offers of Commonwealth assistance beyond those currently being provided for some of the purposes mentioned by the honourable member are matters of policy that are continually being considered. 
The general wishes of the State Housing Ministers with respect to their own housing arrangements have been known since the end of last year. Since that time those wishes have been taken into account and were disclosed publicly for the first time in this Budget. But it would be incorrect to presume from this that this is the first occasion on which the nature of these arrangements and in fact 95 per cent of the details announced in the Budget were made known to the States. The details of these arrangements were made known to the State Premiers and to the State Treasurers by the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference over 2 months ago. On that occasion it was indicated that the Commonwealth's proposals on housing would be announced in an economic and budgetary context. That has been done, and those arrangements were made known well over 2 months ago. 
 The economies of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  have always had a certain mystic quality about them. One can only opine that perhaps this mysticism has received a deal  at  reinforcement as a result of some trips overseas. I would suggest that this mysticism is no substitute for the realities of an economic situation in which a Budget of this nature must always operate. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition contained many pages but probably the most significant part of it is the incredible eulogy of his friend,  Mr Hawke,  which has astounded honourable members on this side of the House and, I would think, all those who listened to his speech. In economic terms, the speech is perhaps worthy of one or two reflections. 
Economic analysis is always conducted with respect to a pre-eminent principle, and the principle that is always pre-eminent, either in the short term or in the long term, is the relation of a supply, however determined, to a demand, however determined. They are often utilised and varied for causes of social justice and welfare, but they are pre-eminent. When one looks at the influence of  Mr Hawke  and the euology of  Mr Hawke  by the Leader of the Opposition perhaps one can only opine that the supply of support from  Mr Hawke  has become necessary for a continuous demand for the Leader of the Opposition. I am sure he has got it. But it is worth a little further analysis. 
The argument that  Mr Hawke  and the Leader of the Opposition now go in tandem has been justified, because it has been said that the former gentleman helped in settling one or two industrial disputes. I would suggest that one swallow does not make a summer, and the influence of the said gentleman cannot explain away nearly 4 million man days of work lost within the last 2 years. Contrast him with the former  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. They are to be judged in broad, statistical, economic terms. If people do not work, as  President  de Gaulle found, goods are not produced and people are unable to buy them. Yet these men run in tandem in so many other ways. After all, a whole new philosophy is proposed within the industrial movement in Australia. A reformist tradition is to be thrown overboard. No longer is it desired to work within a conciliation and arbitration system in order to have work and in order to have goods produced. But these 2 gentlemen run in tandem. 
The principles of the Webbs with respect to industrial organisations within a society of this type are thrown overboard. The Leader of the Opposition participates in throwing these principles overboard. And yet these men run in tandem. One other occasion on which they have run in tandem recently, perhaps like 2 Dukes of Plaza Toro, was at the time of a recent visit here of a sporting team. They induced their own members at a conference to respond actively. That did not mean to stay at home and watch the events on television. After inducing their supporters to respond actively in relation to the sporting tour both of these gentlemen found it necessary to go overseas at the same time - to lead their supporters to the barricade and go away. That is the type of social and economic philosophies which are enunciated by the Opposition. I could suggest one further thing which is worthy of reflection. Perhaps the Leader of the Oppostion is himself as terrified of the current  President  of the ACTU as are most Australian working men. 
One further matter in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition which needs to be exposed is his reference to the Reserve Bank of Australia. As usual, he made a very highly selective reference to the Reserve Bank and quoted one sentence from page 36 of the Reserve Bank's annual bulletin. He quoted: 
Hence, it is harder to attribute the recent acceleration of inflation in this country to excess demand pressures. 
Let me quote the further sentence as follows: 
In fact, the recent impression, both in Australia and abroad, is of rates of inflation a little higher than might have been expected on the basis of past relationships between levels of activity and changes in priees 
Therefore the Government has decided on an analysis similar to this not to impose a further demand-pressure cause of inflation on what is already a cost-push effect on prices in the economy. One further sentence on the same page reads as follows: 
Even if there is a case for a wider range of policies, the importance of adequate demand management remains. 
It always remains, and it has been ignored consistently by the Leader of the Opposition. After all, it is logical that he should ignore this because of the views of the advisers to Labor governments throughout the world, including  Dr Balogh. Dr Balogh  was the adviser to the Labour Cabinet in Great Britain for 4 years and to the Labour Prime Minister of Great Britain. He indicated in his annual address to the Fabian Society of the United Kingdom in 1969 that the Labour Government showed a perennial disability to deal with 16262/71- Jt-121) the excesses of demand in the British economy and so that economy floundered. The Leader of the Opposition would adopt the same principles as have been adopted by some of his confreres elsewhere. 
Two errors of fact in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition need to be exposed. Early in his speech he indicated the extent to which his speech was written for him, the extent to which he did not understand it and the extent to which he has no comprehension whatsoever of what was said. He said that in the December quarter last year two-thirds of the increase in the co*t-price index of 7 per cent aus attributable to the effects of last year's Budget. This country has not had an inflationary rate of 7 per cent within a year for many years, let alone two-thirds of 7 per cent in one quarter. The actual detail was that 0.7 per cent of a rise of 1.9 per cent was attributable to those effects. What difference does a decimal point make? One other point that needs to be emphasised is that the Leader of the Opposition indicated that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  by his actions, was responsible for the States deciding to raise payroll tax from  2i  per cent to 34 per cent. That is just not true. The decision was made independently. 
Once again in economic matters the Leader of the Opposition has demonstrated an inability to distinguish between fact and fantasy. We known that of all the documents that come before a parliament probably none requires as much precise and clear analysis as a Budget. Of all documents, it has to situate itself more within the environment in which it operates than within any other environment. One cannot deal with fantasy. One has to deal with the facts of the situation. The facts of the situation are that the great Budgets that have been enunciated in other parliaments and in the Australian Parliament are those Budgets which are enunciated with some degree of difficulty. Let us go back to the early Budgets, such as the one in the House of Commons relating to the first developing income tax. This Budget is among those that have operated with some difficulty within recent years. Let me illustrate in broad terms what I mean. However the Leader of the Opposition might denigrate statistical analysis, it is appropriate. This is the third Budget with  a  very small deficit, which means that the Government has had to keep demand in some control. It is also a Budget which has had to increase substantially the domestic surplus, which in this Budget is something over $630m. 
Honourable members might well ask: Why has it been found necessary to develop a domestic surplus of this size? It has been found necessary for  a  number of reasons, and these reasons are related to the very nature of the economy in which this Budget operates. The nature of that economy is that over the last year, in real terms, the growth of the national product, abstracting rates of inflation and other factors, has been rather slower than one would have desired. It has been slower because inflation has been greater than what has been desired. It is operating under some difficulty because the fate of private enterprise in this economy within the last year has been not to be as profitable as it has been in recent years. 
Let me indicate the point that needs to be made. During the last year wages and supplements rose by something over 14 per cent. The returns to business rose by between 2 per cent and 4 per cent. There is obviously a gap and the gap that has occurred has not been passed on to the Australian community in terms of prices. This Budget will have the effect of, in a sense, causing the private sector of the economy to grow rather more quickly in this year than it has within recent years. So it is a Budget within the tradition of budgets that have been enunciated by this Government. There are expressions of the factors of difficulty that have faced the Treasurer in developing this Budget. The degrees of difficulty have to be borne in mind against 2 principles which ought to motivate a Budget analysis: What are the welfare provisions in it and what are the attitudes within that Budget to the position of human capital? 
The Leader of the Opposition spent very little time dealing with the welfare provisions in this Budget, and well he might because within those economic constructions the welfare provisions have been real; they have  Men  generous and they have been just. I will just quote one or two details. The rise in the pension - the  age  pension  - is  one  in a  sustained series of rises in  the  pension  in  real terms which  has  never occurred before within Australian budgetary and economic history. This Budget has furthered that rise. The attitudes to family welfare, almost not mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition, in view of his adoption of a new, strange family code at Launceston, are well understood. But the attitudes to family welfare are also real in this Budget. 
I would like to spend one or two moments on my own Department because what I have to say is appropriate. It has to be remembered that subventions with respect to housing in this Budget are the greatest subventions ever contemplated - not only ever granted - by. a government in Australia. The subventions with respect to housing ought to be understood. The new approach to Commonwealth housing enunciated in this Budget under which direct grants will be given to the States will continue to provide housing for the lower income groups. It will be much simpler than the arrangements under the present Commonwealth-State housing agreements. Moreover, there can be no denying that the financial assistance to housing now being offered to the States is sigificantly more generous in this Budget than that which was offered previously. 
The offer is a basic grant of $2. 75m a year for 30 years in respect of each year's housing activity. Let me repeat that: In respect of each year's housing activity during the next 5 years. What does that mean in real terms? What does it mean in money? It means that for houses constructed by the State housing authorities or through recognised organisations such as the co-operative terminating societies there will be over $4 12m subvented to that housing programme by the Commonwealth Government, something not approached in real terms, not even contemplated, by former governments, in fact, between 4 and 5 times the level of real assistance ever given by a Labor government. 
There are 2 further matters which need to be reiterated in respect of housing arrangements and they are these: In addition we propose to pay the States rental assistance grants amounting to $ 1.25m a year in each of the next 5 years. This is considerably more than the additional cost to the States of charging reduced rents in 1970-71. This increase has been broadly calculated to have been in the last year something in excess of $800,000. This offer of additional housing assistance is firm for the next 5 years irrespective of the benefits the States would receive if official interest rates were to decline from their present high levels. In addition the States will have access to an additional S3. 5m a year to build homes for civilian families in need of housing assistance as a consequence of the Commonwealth's offer to provide advances to be used to construct dwellings for the families of servicemen. This meets a request by the States. Surely that is not the kind of new offer, made in an economic context of this type, which needs to be denigrated even half-heartedly by the Opposition. 
There are one or two other points that probably need to be brought into line in respect of the Leader of the Opposition's long discourse this evening. They are these. For many years Australia has had a high rate of growth. It has had a high rate of growth in real terms. It has had a high rate of growth for which this Government has been responsible. The Leader of the Opposition quotes the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development as an authority for his proposals - and he has none - but as a senior authority for his proposals concerning inflation. Does he not realise that in the London 'Economist' of the most recent date projections from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development illustrate that by 1980 Australia is expected to have the highest living standards of all of those nations, except the United States of America? These are the most prosperous nations in the world. This kind of authority is ignored or once again he seeks to make selective quotations with respect to them. 
I refer to one Other matter and it needs to be borne in mind. For many years the Leader of the Opposition made a passing reference to immigration. I have indicated that two of the welfare aspects of a Budget are its attitude to social welfare and its attitude to human capital. Immigration has been a great engine of growth within this country for many years and it has provided adequate increases, helpful increases to the work force each year. Without it we would not have had the growth that we have had. But the social philosophy of the immigration programme has been one which has influenced Australia socially as well as economically. Every immigration Minister, from the first Minister forward to the present Minister, has indicated that immigration in Australia provides a welcome addition to the natural increase in the Australian work force. The Leader of the Opposition meant to change not only Australia socially but also that form of addition to the Australian work force. Having regard to family code policies enunciated at Launceston, according to which the natural addition to the Australian work force following some second-rate left wing overseas intellectual proposition is to be reduced, he desires to increase immigration from non-European sources. 
I merely say this: Two principles are involved here. He proposes that immigration no longer be an addition to the Australian growth programme; it is in fact to be a substitute for it. Opposition members cannot evade that charge. It is a change of a philosophy which is supported by the present shadow Minister for Immigration and was supported by the first Minister for Immigration in this country. The Leader of the Opposition has desired to embrace not only wholly new economic progress but also social programmes of which many in his Party are deadly afraid. 
It has been my task tonight to look at the speech which has been written for and read by the Leader of the Opposition. The speech was short on simple economic analysis. It had  4  sections dealing with the politics of economics and I suggest that the politics of economics as far as the Leader of the Opposition is concerned is involved in that incredible eulogy of support for his friend,  Mr Hawke;  in his incredible misunderstanding of the real causes of inflation; in his inability to understand how inflation is to be cured; but above all, and perhaps most tragically, in his very wilful - and I merely say 'wilful' - misunderstanding of some of the very revered and respected analyses of the Reserve Bank. 
I am aware of some criticism that has been offered in some quarters concerning the offer by the Commonwealth for State housing assistance which was contained in the Budget Speech. The criticism is unfounded because the offer of assistance by the Commonwealth is a very great increase over that which was made by the Commonwealth for State housing assistance in the past. It consists of 3 parts. The offer made by the Commonwealth is, firstly, by way of grants to contribute $2.75m a year for 30 years in respect of State housing activities for the next 5 years. In other words, for State housing activities undertaken over the next 5 years the Commonwealth intends to subvent over $410m. In the second place, there is a completely new form of assistance - rental assistance grants for those people in need of reduced rentals of $ 1.25m a year for 5 years. The third measure of assistance is to release the States from any obligation to assist in the finance or the advances for servicemen's housing. That will release from State funds on the basis of their activities over the last 5 years something over $3m a year for other purposes. These are very generous offers greatly in advance of anything that has ever been offered in the past and we would hope that they would be accepted for what they are. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In formal terms, $60,155,000. 
These funds were advanced to the States under the terms of the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement 1956-1966 which provided for advances up to 30th June 1971. According to the Agreement, the rate of interest charged by the Commonwealth on these advances was 1 per cent below the long term bond rate applying at the date the advances were made. The Agreement stipulated that dwellings financed from the advances were to be primarily for. families of low or moderate means. In . 1969-70 the interest rates applicable to advances made under the Agreement were: 1st July 1969 to 10th July 1969-4.4 per cent 11th July 1969 to 7th May 1970-5.0 per cent 8th May 1970 to 30th June 1970-6.0 per cent. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the financial year 1970-71 a total of 7,812 applicants received War Service Homes loans. The raising of secondary finance was approved in 1529 (i.e. 19.57 per cent) of these cases. 
Particulars of the interest rate charged on second mortgages are not recorded on a basis which would enable details of the average rate of interest to be readily ascertained. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average cost of all homes (including the land on which the homes were erected) built or financed under the War Service Homes Act during 1970-71 in New South Wales  was$16,281. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim annual report of the Director of War Service Homes for the year ended 30th June 1971. When the final report is available, I shall present it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
 I would not seek to answer the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in detail, but I will take up one of the last points he made in relation to the children of pensioners. If there is anything which this Budget has done and if there is anything which the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has sought to do it is to increase very significantly the children's allowance. The children's allowance which is appropriate to the children of pensioners has been increased by $2 for the first child, $1 for the second child and, taking into account concomitant alterations in child endowment for the third and later children, for the third child of a pensioner the allowance has been increased by $1.50 a week. These are very significant increases indeed. To suggest then that the Minister for Social Services has been rather recalcitrant in this respect is certainly to make an unjust quite unfair charge. But it is to be expected. After all, when one feels a wind blowing, in respect of social services one does not have to be a weather man to know which way the wind is likely to blow. In respect of social services one always trims one's sails to catch the wind and the Opposition has done this this afternoon and continues to do it tonight. It has cried continually and is still doing so. It has done it over the years. 
I would suggest that in a few moments when the Minister for Social Services speaks he will dry up some of the mess the Opposition members have made this afternoon and answer some of the points they have raised. I further suggest that when the Opposition cries it does so neither with its head nor with its heart and is all the more guilty of neglecting both those aspects. The principle which ran through the contributions from honourable members opposite on social services was a simple one which needs examination. They propose always that they are against an examination to determine need and they are against an examination to determine where help is really required only when they feel there is some political advantage in it. But in respect of so many other policies, in respect of educational policies, industry policies and economic policies, they propose assistance according to need only when they can divide people by class, industry, social values or social origins and they have done it continually. So the Opposition's philosophy on social services cannot be distinguished in any way from the philosophy which it applies to other areas where assistance has to be given by a government and this attitude needs to be examined for what it is worth. 
In a broader sense it has failed to look at 3 aspects at which it is necessary to look in an economy if social services are to be distributed. It has failed to look at the 1971-72 propositions in a budgetary or economic context, but it has always failed to do that. It has failed to realise that there can be no resources to distribute if one has a philosophy against the production of resources, and that also has to do with some other policies. Finally the Opposition embarks on what it calls the single issue campaign, never looking at poverty in a broad sense but looking at it piecemeal to see what benefit it can wring out of its false cries of anguish over these matters. Let us look at these 3 deficiencies of analysis which the Opposition has been putting forward this afternoon and tonight. This Budget in a broad economic context was a Budget which had to restrain Government expenditure. It was subjected to rather severe restraint in relation to increases in expenditure which the Government had to make. 
What are the social welfare proposals within that necessary economic constraint of expenditure? If one examines the cash social service benefits, and they are predominantly the matters to which the Minister for Social Services has referred, one can see that the increase in those benefits enshrined in this Bill are the greatest increases in cash social service benefits proposed in any one year in the history of this country. Let me repeat that. These are the greatest proposed increases in cash social service benefits ever proposed (jj the history of Australia. There should be tome credit given to the Government for that. 
Of course, 1 have an interjection from the Opposition's shadow Minister for Health based on his own family code policies. 1 suggest that if he wants to understand a budgetary and an economic context he should consult the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  because currently he is the only one on the Opposition side who even seeks to understand the matters in their wider context, and they need to be understood in their wider context if ever the Opposition is to propose meaningful policies. 
There are other matters to be considered. I have been intrigued to hear this afternoon the similarity between the proposals put forward by the Opposition and the proposals for a social welfare programme made by the Opposition's other partner in power, the Austraiian Council of Trade Unions. The ACTU proposed figures, which have been repeated ad nauseum this afternoon, false and rather meaningless figures, concerning the proportion of national income spent on social services. The ACTU programme, from which the Opposition dares not significantly differ, wanted an increase in social services not of some $230m this year, which is the greatest increase ever, but of over $ 1,000m a year. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  for example, proposed certain things in respect of pensions and one small proposal would have required an increased expenditure on its own approaching $400m this year. . his is just absurd; it is not commonsense. If the Opposition wishes to propose something for everybody it should at least dress the proposal up in terms so that the faults in its analysis are not so easily exposed. Of course, the honourable member and his colleagues are speaking as members of the Opposition who have never had experience in government. 
Of course, they are not the only ones to do this. For example, the former British Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Labour Government.  Mr Roy  Jenkins, warned against the type of redistributist policies which seek to take everything, to skin entrepreneurs of profits, to skin salary earners like onions, and he made it clear that to appropriate everything from public authority funds is to put a country in a state of continued stagnation. Let me quote the advice which was given by the Labour Chancellor who had experience in this field. Not long before his party went out of power, he said: i  don't see a future of achieving our social objectives by constantly shifting resources from the private to the public sector so that people have a less and less proportion of their income to spend as they choose. 
He knew some of the facts of life, lt is rather interesting to eximane further the manner in which the thought of a talented Labor Opposition member such as the former Chancellor, Roy Jenkins, changed once he gained power. He realised then that the way to open the window on social services to people was to have an economic policy, not a piecemeal one-issue analysis policy such as the Opposition here has been putting forward continually this afternoon. I will read a further extract of his advice which it is appropriate to consider. Tn 19S2 the said gentleman, being keen on on redistribution and it then being 12 years before he assumed responsibility in government, was on favour of equalisation through public funds at increasing and higher rates of taxation. In 1969 when he had achieved some responsibility and when he had to achieve policies which invoked responsibility he had this to say: 
To a greater extent now than in 1952 1 believe that a generally rising standard of living which, of course, is lied up very closely with economic growth- 
The Opposition did not mention anything about economic growth -  is an important equalising factor, but it is incomparably easier to open up new windows to new groups of people on a basis of a rising  standard  of living th:in in a purely  redistributist  framework. 
Of course the Opposition has pursued this latter framework for all the faults it has, considered in isolation. Today we know that a policy attributed to concepts of social justice can only be administered where there is a significant and adequate rate of economic growth. That is why social services have become important policies for governments in the Western world particularly since the 1930s. The reorganisation of economies has enabled social service policies of various values to be implemented. 
In looking at policies relating to age pensions, families and endowment the Opposition has completely ignored that aspect of consideration. One other matter deserves consideration. There is another equation which always has to be considered by a Minister for Social Services. If in a country those who propose a distribution of social services cause production not to occur, there will be no goods or resources to distribute. I would like somebody to explain to me how people who propose economic mora.toria, who propose political strikes and who cause loss of production can enable those resources which are capable of redistribution to be developed. These are simple contradictions in fact. 
The Opposition should appreciate that in respect of social services the people of Australia appreciate the deficiencies in the arguments put forward by the Opposition. The third aspect of the Labor Party's policies which must be considered is related not to a single unit analysis of poverty but to a broad analysis of poverty. Time after time this afternoon the Government has been charged with generating and tolerating a high rate of poverty in Australia. Over the years the Opposition has quoted Professor Henderson and Professor Downing. Of course, honourable members opposite have not done their homework. Otherwise they would have appreciated that for nigh on 5 to 6 years when the first analyses were made Australia had one of the lowest proportions of households existing at a poverty level of any similarly measurable country in the world. That was pointed out in this House in 1966. 
Let me state the analysis that was done then but which has conveniently been ignored. It is demonstrable, for example, that in the United States of America, choosing an adequate poverty level, between 17 per cent and 19 per cent of households existed at or below that poverty level. It is demonstrable in the United Kingdom that under the British Labour Government the proportion of households existing at a poverty level, taken from an analysis of the Fabian Society, increased and ended up at a level between 11 per cent and 14 per cent depending on the type of analysis. In 1966, on early analyses, it was thought that between 7 per cent and 8 per cent of households in Australia were at a poverty level. The two great advisers to the Opposition, which honourable members opposite have quoted ad nauseam - Professor Downing and Professor Henderson - contend, as Professor Henderson contended in a letter to the London 'Times' earlier this year, that 5 per cent of households in Australia are at or below a poverty level. We do not like to have any families existing at a povery level, just as nobody wants to have even 0.1 per cent of people unemployed, but where performance has been good it ought to be recognised. Let me refer to the letter written by Professor Henderson to the London 'Times' on 17th April 1971. He said: 
The proportion 'in poverty* in Australia is at 5 per cent, much lower than in Britain. 
This is after years of Labour governments. He continued: 
This is due to a much higher minimum wage which lifts nearly all earners' families out of poverty as well as rather more generous pensions. 
He then referred to the spurious analyses concerning the percentage of Australia's national income which is devoted to social services. In this case it is a misunderstanding of what national income this involves. He continues: 
It is our judgment that the incidence of poverty in Australia is lower than in any country in the world with the possible exceptions of New Zealand and the Scandinavian countries, and that the distribution of wealth and income is more equitable than in any other country, with the same possible exceptions. 
That is a fair commendation and one which ought to be accepted by those who have had responsibility. I only regret that in its own analyses of these matters the Opposition has neglected the broad analysis. It has neglected the economic analysis, with a fair assessment of how appropriate social welfare is to social justice within the context of the Australian economy. 
One thing further needs to be said and needs to be repeated over and over again. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development makes its own analyses of the most sophisticated countries in the world. From its own broad analyses carried on from the end of last year and from analyses of Australia's demographic structure the OECD feels that by 1980 the standards within Australia will be second only to those of the United States. This may not be good enough, but it is 
Sot a bad performance. It has to be remembered that such a performance has been achieved not with the assistance of the Opposition but against its continued misunderstanding and lack of appreciation for what is done. A social welfare policy can be pursued only with a certain type of social engineering. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  pointed out that the growth in the Australian work force has been a most significant engine to enable social welfare development to proceed. 
I regret very much that, as the very basis for the determination of a social welfare policy, the Opposition has adopted policies with respect to Australian family codes and immigration, which is itself an addition to the work force, which run counter to every tradition that we have had in Australia. That Party talks about social welfare and redistributist responsibilities while at the very base and soul of Australia's development it has adopted principles which are contrary to 70 years of its own history. These are involved in social welfare policies. They may be outside the precise considerations of the National Welfare Fund but they are concerned in Australian social welfare. These are the charges which that Party ultimately will have to answer. These are the charges related to odd policies adopted at Launceston in relation to these matters which will have to be answered by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  No matter how much he may seek to evade these things; no matter how much he may seek to avoid these things, the Australian working man is concerned about the adoption of strange policies which have been pursued by the Opposition. I can only say that in some respects knowing that the Australian Labor Party has always wanted in Australian sentiment. In fact it has adopted some of  Dr Erlich's  policies before he ever came to this country. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  has decided to fish in the area of the proposed housing arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. Pursuant to that aim he has quoted certain State Ministers for Housing, particularly  Mr Meagher  from Victoria and  Mr Hodges  from Queensland. He quoted certain views they expressed concerning the nature of the Commonwealth's proposals and has presumed that they believe the proposals operate to the disadvantage of .the States. 
Before I deal with that point of his case let me once again scan chronologically the list of arrangements that occurred. Early this year, in April, it was stated that it was hoped to have a further discussion between the Commonwealth Minister for Housing and the State Ministers relative to a new housing agreement or some new housing arrangements. The meeting in that form did not occur. It was replaced, and was replaced to the knowledge of State Premiers and State Treasurers and the officers accompanying them at the Premiers Conference early in June. At the Premiers meeting inside and outside this chamber in June the States were told 95 per cent of what the Commonwealth was prepared to offer in relation to housing. 
It was also indicated to the States that something further would be offered to them in relation to housing, and that occurred. What these officers and senior State officials were told was that the Commonwealth was proposing to make grants of $2.75m available for each year over a 5-year period for 30 years. That is, for each year of the housing arrangements the Commonwealth was to offer to the States $82.5m and that was to continue for a 5- year period. In other words, $2.75m was a cumulative sum and in fact a very generous sum. It was also indicated to the States that they would be released from their obligation under the previous Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement to make available up to 5 per cent of their advances for the purpose of Service housing, that the Commonwealth would make all the advances in relation to Service housing and that there would be further assurances in relation to those matters. They were also told then, in early June, that there would be a further offer in the Budget and that this was to be announced publicly quite apart from their own knowledge of it, in the budgetary context. That offer made in early June was correct. 
Subsequent to that, I undertook to visit a number of the States and I spoke with a number of Ministers concerning the matter. For example, I spoke with the  Deputy  Premier in South Australia and his Under Treasurer, having communicated with the Premier of South Australia earlier. I spoke also with the Minister for Housing in Victoria, and others. The opportunity was available to State Ministers for Housing to know the details, certainly 95 per cent of the details, in relation to the housing agreement. As was pointed out at a subsequent conference between the Commonwealth and the States, there was no advantage whatsoever to one State compared to another in terms of the details of the proposal. But, of course, some States had done their homework. That is the way in which it occurred. 
A meeting between myself and the State Ministers for Housing was held last Friday week in Canberra. The proposals were discussed at that meeting. There was vigorous, amicable discussion concerning the Commonwealth's proposals to the States. Of course, some States said that I had indicated to them that they could take it or leave it. Those words have been quoted in the Press. Those words were never uttered by me, as far as I can discover from reading the transcript of the meeting between the Commonwealth and the States. But I do not regard that as being very important. So the present situation is this, as the honourable member would know: A meeting has been held between the officers of the Commonwealth and the States in relation to this matter, and it is hoped that at an early, convenient date another meeting will be held between the State Ministers for Housing, their officers and myself to explore further the benefits of the Commonwealth's new arrangements. 
It has also been indicated by the honourable member for Bowman that some State Ministers have said that this would make housing loans dearer for them and they would build fewer houses through their own State authorities than under the previous agreement. That is incorrect. These arrangements are very substantial and generous. They are a substantial improvement on anything that has ever been offered previously by the Commonwealth to the State. As a matter of fact, if one were to compare this offer and its nature with the offer made under Commonwealth and State housing agreements by Labor governments, the latter arrangements and proposals for agreement would pale into insignificance alongside the generosity of this offer. In fact, many of those vitally concerned with this new proposal have indicated that this offer is better than has ever occurred in the past. Of course, whatever the Government did in the past was always significantly better than whatever a Labor Government contemplated doing. 
One of the gentlemen who has indicated that this offer is better than what has occurred in the past is the present Premier of South Australia. Another gentleman who has indicated that the offer is better than the previous arrangement is the Minister for housing in New South Wales. Of course it is for the States to decide how they assess these matters and how they do their homework in these matters. I cannot do it for them. But I do say that to suggest that this proposed arrangement would make housing dearer or that it would induce increased costs in housing reflects a lack of knowledge of what is contained in the agreement. It should be borne in mind that one of the interesting features in this proposed agreement is that of all the organisations concerned with housing in Australia, probably the co-operative terminating building societies are most intimately concerned. In fact they are almost as intimately concerned as some State governments. As in the old agreement it is proposed that up to 30 per cent of the funds should be subvented to the co-operative terminating building societies because these people cater for the low and moderate income earners. If this proposal is good for the States it is good for the co-operative terminating building societies. If it is bad for the States or the approved organisations - South Australia works through different organisations - it is bad for those people who work through the home builders account, the co-operative terminating building societies and, in South Australia, other organisations. 
It is interesting to bear in mind that the Australian President of the Australian Council of Co-operative Building and Housing Societies has made a statement, after examining the details of the proposals, indicating that they represent a substantial improvement on what has been offered in the past. He has expressed some concern that the negotiations may break down. A statement was published in the Financial Review' of 2nd September 1971. I read the part of the statement which it is appropriate to consider in this context on the generosity of the Commonwealth's offer. It states: 
The Australian Council of Co-operative Building and Housing Societies has come out in support of the Commonwealth's new housing proposals, which have been rejected by all States except NSW and South Australia. 
The  president  of the council,  Mr B.  Knowles, said ... he believed the proposed Commonwealth grant was equivalent to an average interest concession of at least 1.4 per cent- 
When one considers that the interest concession under Labor governments was between 4 per cent and  i  per cent one can see what is involved in the different arrangement -  which was substantially higher than the present concession. 
The terminating societies hoped that the reported breakdown in negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States would be quickly resolved' . . . 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure under the War Service Homes Act in 1970-71 was $61m. 
The amount of principal and interest received in 1970-71 was $77,807,869. 
The amount received in 1970-71 in respect of liabilities discharged before the end of the repayment period was $23,940,495. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to set out the information supplied by the State housing authorities in a manner that would permit direct comparison. This is so because of variations between the States in such factors as the proximity of the land being used to the capital city centre, the date of acquisition of the land, whether the land was purchased in a developed state or was bought 'raw' and developed by the housing authority, the extent of development required, and whether the land was bought in small quantities or in broad acres. 
For this reason the information for each State is shown separately. 
One would almost have thought that the light on the hill had been spied once again by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  Of course, it has been spied in the past but it has receded into the distance. The honourable member for Reid presumes to have discovered it. As I read once again the terms in which the matter of public importance has been framed it is intriguing to recollect the principles which have guided the formulation of these terms. There is no doubt that in matters of social content, if one rustles the pages once or twice the moths come rushing out. The pages have been rustled with respect to this matter of public importance and the moths which have rushed out deserve to be examined. 
The honourable member for Reid, on behalf of his Party, has proposed the formulation of a land policy on the fringes of the cities of Australia which would mean that three things would occur. Any market which was developed in relation to land in those areas would be a Canberra determined market; it would be determined in the central city here. The nature of the services which would be appropriate to such land would be determined in Canberra. The nature of the market which would be determined would have little relationship to the experience of those people who have bought land and who continue to buy land in the capital and provincial cities of Australia. 
If the honourable member for Reid had examined more closely two of the documents from which he quoted he would have seen that in fact they disprove his thesis. Both the report of the Housing Industry Association and the report of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies demonstrate one clear principle, that is, that local market conditions determine the market prices for land: so much so that the Australian Institute of Urban Studies was quite careful not to indicate that land ought to be acquired through determinations made in Canberra. The Institute, in its very quickly compiled report, illustrated a number of conditions which might be applied in order to make the local market freer. An examination of those conditions makes it perfectly clear that most of them- in fact all of them - are completely within the responsibility and power of those who have charge of land in local areas. 
If the honourable member for Reid had gone a little further he would have seen that this is demonstrated not merely through' the distribution of power in Australia but also through the fluctuations in costs. I refer him once again to the report of the Housing Industry Association. On page 4 of that report - and this was referred to indirectly - it is made clear that there has been a significant rise in land costs in most of the capital cities of Australia; in fact, in all of them. What the honourable member for Reid has failed to understand is that these variations in costs have occurred with respect to two principal determinants. The variations have been from city to city and within each city. Variations in costs have been different in respect of low, medium and high priced lands. A number of markets has been determined in each city, and it is in response to those markets that people have paid prices for land. 
The honourable member for Reid has put forward an urban land nationalisation project. If these matters were to be determined in Canberra and if his proposition were the one which was the most appropriate for Australia, let him explain, for example, how in Perth, where there was a very significant rise in land costs during the late 1960s, there was a variation in land prices and how, in some cases, there was an absolute decrease in land prices. Let him then ask the question: How was this engineered? How did it occur? Would it have occurred if the vital decision had been made here in Canberra? Would it have been determined by some Minister for Urban Affairs and Environment? The honourable member for Reid would love to have control of the whole of the environment and be advised, as he said, by a public servant here in Canberra. Common sense indicates that that would not have caused the variation in land prices which, for example, occurred in Perth. The variation in land prices occurred because a freer market was established and because the basic positions of supply and demand with respect to urban land were varied in that city by those who have the power and responsibility to do so. I am not one who would seek to impose upon that kind of situation a power which is determined, administered and calculated from the central capital city of Australia. I suggest that is centralism gone rather mad.  1  do not think that the honourable member for Reid has really read or understood the report of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies, because basically it was not a centralised document. From a reading of the summary of the proposals in the report he would realise that all the proposals made in relation to land were made in order to influence the local market to which the report referred. I refer to page  53  of the document which contains a series of  7  proposals. In not one of the proposals is it stated that Canberra, as the determinant capital city, should be predominant. I will reiterate the principles which guided the men who produced this task force report on land development. I refer to the summary, which is a fair summary of the conclusions of their investigations. 
I have seen the statement made by the Victorian Minister for Housing attributing a change in rentals in that State or a change in the purchase price of houses built by State Housing Commissions to the proposed new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. The gap in the logic of such a statement is the fact that the new proposals by the Commonwealth are a very substantial improvement on previous arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. Therefore, any increases in rentals or in purchase prices which have been made could not be attributable to the very great increase in assistance that has been proposed by the Commonwealth and substantially agreed to by the States. 
Repeated statements have been made in Victoria that the new proposals are a regression and a disadvantage compared with the position in the past. Those statements are incorrect. Probably the best way in which to demonstrate their error would be to indicate that under the old arrangements the present value of the interest concessions for any one year, were they to have been continued for the next 5 years, would have been of the order of $29m a year - that is, at 5 per cent discount rates. The present value at the same discount rates of the new Commonwealth proposals is in excess of $40m a year. That is the nature of the comparison only under the grants which are appropriate to the new arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. I would suggest that the statements which have been made repeatedly are incorrect. I would further add that not all States have made these statements as some of them, since the date of the first announcement, have done their homework on the Commonwealth's proposals. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1970, I present the seventh annual report on the administration and operation of that Act for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965- 1966, I present the seventh annual report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
The numbers of applications for Home Savings Grants received in each State and in the Australian Capital Territory in each of the financial years 1969-70 and 1970-71 were: 
The proposed new housing arrangements for the Commonwealth and the States propose to eliminate the interest concession of 1 per cent below the long term bond rate on borrowings for State housing but propose to do much more than substitute for this concession by way of a very significant increase in grants. The increases in grants are such that on a number of calculations the interest concession which would apply now on housing has been increased by something like SO per cent at least. In addition to this, sinking fund contribution's will be made by the Commonwealth with respect to the new scheme which could enable further interest concession to apply for the advances for State housing. 
This being the background to the new agreement, it is quite clear that these arrangements could in no way be responsible for any significant increase in rents. Especially this would be so as the Commonwealth proposes to make specific new rental assistance grants which have not applied in the past and which are to help the States in some of their rental rebate arrangements. Overall it is quite clear that if State authorities intend either to increase rents or increase the prices asked from those who are purchasing houses from State housing authorities, this scheme and this assistance would not be responsible for such increases. They would be due to decisions made by State authorities for other reasons. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969, I present the annual statement on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act leaves great initiative to the various State governments which are responsible not only for the timing of construction of these dwellings and their location but for all other matters. Almost the only requirement that the Commonwealth places upon the States is that when the grants are made to the States there be an undertaking by them not to lessen their own activities with respect to dwellings for age pensioners. I have noted that Queensland has not constructed dwellings in the same manner or at the same rate as have the other States. It is not within my power to direct the Queensland Government as to what it should do but I understand that that Government has undertaken measures to speed up construction of these dwellings and I' hope that that will be done in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Applications lodged with State housing authorities for houses (and flats) built with advances received under the 1956-1966 Housing Agreement were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The numbers of applications for Home Savings Grants received and approved in each of the years ended 30th June 1965, 1967, 1969. 1970 and 1971 were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The meeting arranged for March . 1971 was a regular annual meeting of State Housing Ministers to which my predecessor had been invited by them and at which CommonwealthState Housing arrangements were to have been discussed. When, because of changesin the Ministry, it proved impracticable to present Commonwealth proposals at that time the State Ministers decided to postpone the meeting. 
There have been two meetings of Commonwealth and State Housing Ministers since March at Canberra on 27th August 1971 and at Sydney on 17th September 1971. 
and (3) The first meeting was adjourned to enable further consideration to be given to the Commonwealth's proposals, and the final outcome was announced in a joint press statement after the September meeting in the following terms. 
The State Housing Ministers today announced they had agreed to accept Commonwealth proposals for housing grants in respect to their activities over the next 5 years, subject to a number of variations in details agreed between them. It was also agreed that, in future, housing for servicemen should be dealt with under a separate agreement by which construction would continue to be carried out by the States, with the Commonwealth to meet the full costs. The main principles of the proposals were agreed to, and detailed documents are to be submitted to the States in due course'. 
International Parliamentary Conference on the Environment  (Question No. 4407) 
DrEveringham asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts,  upon notice: 
What action has been taken by the Government to implement the resolution of the International Parliamentary Conference on the Environment that governments should begin international negotiations on pollution control, research and environmental aspects of treaties and foreign aid. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition will not be supported by the Government. 
It does not deserve to be supported by the Government. We had made up our minds that it did not deserve support when it was first moved. When the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who led for the Opposition, expanded the quaint type of interest and economic theories that underlie this amendment, we were reinforced in the decision that we had made some hours earlier. Let me deal quite quickly with one or two points in this amendment. 
The Opposition will acquire land under its policy all over the place and make that land available cheaply to people. The Opposition did not indicate at what price the land will be acquired. The .Opposition did not indicate that the Housing Industry Association which it quoted as supporting its policy does not support the public acquisition of land for this purpose. Added to that quaint view on bringing down the price of land was one question which remained unanswered as it remained unanswered some time ago when this matter was debated here. The price of land in some parts of Sydney had been investigated. It was found that various factors had caused the price of land to rise. But it was clearly established that a local market for land exists in each city in Australia and for different types of land within each city. But there is one factor further than that which needs to be considered and it needs to be reiterated. 
There are certain problems with respect to land in Sydney. Why does not the Opposition explain for example the service charges on the development of land particularly in the west of Sydney imposed by local governments of which the Opposition itself has political control? If the Opposition is sincere with respect to this matter, let honourable members opposite exert their authority and influence in the regions where they have some power to exert it. I say only one thing: If honourable members opposite were in government they would exercise the same kind of influence with respect to costs as their confreres exercise in relation to costs in local authority areas. 
The second point which was raised was this odd view with respect to interest rates. Members of the Opposition still seem to think that interest rates are something which exist in isolation in any economy and that interest rates in Australia have no relation to what happens overseas concerning interest rates. They think that interest rates have no relation to either the fiscal or monetary balance of an economy. Members of the Opposition would go wildly on their way and advocate a policy of cheap interest rates. Everybody likes cheap interest rates. But as soon as one hears that policy being advocated one recalls that the last government of which Opposition members would have some experience and which tried artificially to implement cheap interest rates was the United Kingdom Government in which the celebrated  Dr Dalton  had some influence. If Opposition members want to copy the kind of monetary and fiscal policies which were utilised by United Kingdom Labour Governments after the Second World War, let them do so, but we will expose the other ingredients contained in that interest rate and explain the fiscal, monetary and broad overall economic policy involved. That policy would be a disaster for this country. Common sense indicates that this would be the case. It is appropriate for me to make one or two other points. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member for Wills will cease interjecting. 
I have made it perfectly clear that interest rates in general are not something which exist- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The Minister is answering questions which have been raised by the Committee. 
One further point needs to be emphasised concerning this cry over interest rate policies and over the problems of housing. I have indicated Where some authority could be exercised by the Opposition in areas where it has significant power but where the Opposition has chosen not to do this. There is another field which ought to be explored. Perhaps this question will be answered in this chamber in the next debate on housing. We are still awaiting, agog with excitement, the cheap interest rate money which is going to be made available by their friends in the Australian Council of Trade Unions through their own building societies. No member in this place will be unaware that whilst that policy was enunciated a little time before the last ACTU congress, it has not been mentioned since. The prospects of carrying out this promise which was made before the election for the ACTU congress have receded further into the distance. We are all aware of this. Consequently, we were delighted to hear this continued song of praise for the Government's efforts from Opposition members earlier tonight. 
A number of points which were made are worth commenting upon. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  spoke about war service homes. He would like the maximum advance available for war service homes to be increased. So would I. The Government intends to increase the maximum advance to $9,000. That will be incorporated in a Bill which will be presented quite soon to the House. In addition, it needs to be borne in mind that the interest rate at which that money will be made available will not be at the ACTU building society interest rate, which we have not discovered, but will remain at  3i  per cent, which is an incredibly generous interest rate. Let me give one example of how generous that interest rate is. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member for Wills will resume his seat and cease interjecting. 
In order to give one quick illustration of the generosity of that interest rate, I will mention to the Committee one or two figures. For example, if a loan of $8,000 were to be made for 45 years with quarterly repayments at the interest rate of 7 per cent, which is the rate normally paid in the community, the interest payments would be about $18,000. The interest payment on the same advance, namely, $8,000, at the interest rate which is available under the War Service Homes Act and with the type of payments which are required under this Act is not $18,000; it is about $8,500. That is a measure of the extent to which advances under the War Services Homes Act represent a very generous, fair and just contribution for homes for ex-servicemen and their families in Australia. There is a difference of $8,000 over that period of time. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat and cease interjecting. 
Members of the Opposition are known as great democrats. There is one other point that needs to be emphasised. Earlier on it was claimed that housing activities had decreased greatly in Australia and, as usual, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  produced a table. He always likes to have a table which has been compiled for him incorporated in Hansard. The table was designed to show that, according to the number of approvals, commencements and completions, there has been a significant decline in the amount of housing activity in Australia. Of course, what the honourable member forgot was that there had been several months in this year subsequent to the month of June and there have been months subsequent to the month of August. We are now in October, and if one looks at the latest list of approvals for housing and construction in Australia, in respect of both the approvals and approvals for the money to be spent it will be seen that there have been very significant increases. If one takes the figures over a number of recent months and compare them with the figures for the same months in the previous year one will see that the approval figures for private and Government construction for this year are at an average of about $12,000, compared with an average of $11,500 for the last 2 months of the previous year. 
The same kind of approval figures, in terms of seasonally adjusted figures for money to be spent on home construction, indicate again that the increase has been substantial. There has been an average of $290m a month approved over the last 2 months compared with an average of $230m for the same months in the previous year. So, there has been a real expansion in the field of housing and real expansion in the rate of housing activity which is proceeding in this country. The Government believes that this is operating close to the equilibrium level that is appropriate to an economy in balance and it is the intention of the Government to do everything possible within sensible and reasonable economic management to keep it so. 
There are some matters of substance which deserve to be explored in relation to migration in this country, and I have been fascinated by the proposition that some people, after deciding that they have a new policy, want now to have an inquiry to see what that policy is to be about. This would be one of the quaintest intellectual exercises one could come across. It is my intention not to follow on political ploys but to look at the substance of the changes in migration policy and to determine what the alternative policies are on migration because these changes touch the very heart of this nation and deserve to be explored, even  if  only in the course of seeking some truth on the matter. 
 For 25 years there has been no funda- mental dispute concerning the principles underlying Australia's immigration policy. Those principles were stated in this House on 2nd August 1945. They aimed towards the development of a secure and cohesive homogeneous Australian community. They were first enunciated by the present right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  by successive Ministers for Immigration and by every Government since 1945. The tragedy is that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and his influential, intellectual friends, among them the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  have proposed a complete - even if disguised - overturning of the principles of immigration. In January this year  Mr Dunstan  stated without any equivocation whatsoever: 
Australia must open its gates to people from any country in the world. 
It is perfectly clear, and undeniable, that these men played a leading role in the formulation of the policy on immigration, a policy on which they want an inquiry and a policy that was adopted by the Launceston Conference only weeks ago by 44 votes to one. Let me state the immigration philosophy which has been rejected, and I quote from Hansard of 2nd August 1945 what the present right honourable member for Melbourne, the first Minister for Immigration, said. He said: 
If Australians have learned one lesson from the Pacific War ... it is surely that we cannot continue to hold our island continent for ourselves and our descendants unless we greatly increase our numbers. 
The then Minister went on: 
Immigration is, at best, only the counterpart of the most important phase of population building, natural increase. 
In the growth of Australia, controlled migration was developed to increase our population, our defence and development capabilities and to develop the Australian race. 
The Leader of the Opposition and his new shadow Minister for Immigration now propose its submergence. They have made Australia an intellectual garbage can for their own doctrinal ideas on migration. The Australian community, and especially the working man, is the target. These programmes they have proposed have 5 parts. First, hitherto, migration was always judged to be a necessary and welcome addition to our natural increase. Children born in Australia were always the first migrants. The Leader of the Opposition has now adopted a policy for a Labor - Government to persuade people to have fewer children. He wants a smaller Australian family - not his own, of course, but for others. 
He said it on television. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! I warn the honourable member for Adelaide. There have been far too many interjections. The Minister is entitled to be heard. The debate in this House should be of a standard that is expected of a national Parliament and we are not getting it. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- There is no point of order. 
I am delighted to see that the honourable member stayed for the feast. Nevertheless, migrants from whatever source are to be encouraged, against that background. They will be in that environment a substitute for our natural increase. The deletion of the population requirement from the Labor Party platform proposes this effective substitution. It is simply un-Australian. I do not believe, and I do not think any genuine Australian patriot could believe, that the Australianborn child should be discouraged while uncontrolled migration is encouraged. The development of a genuine Australian sentiment from a vigorous Australian people would be ruined. Secondly, the Leader of the Opposition now proposes that Government activities in the search for migrants should be reduced and replaced by spontaneous applications and sponsorship from Australia. This means that those areas where governments search for and find migrants will no longer act as the source they have been in the past. This will effectively cut migration from Great Britain, Germany, the Scandinavian countries, Denmark, Norway and almost all the countries of Europe. Thtre could hardly be a more effective way to cut European migration than by cutting the Government's activity in its search for migrants. 
Thirdly, to allow sponsorship of migrants to rest with Australian residents who sponsor families and friends - from whatever country - and with well-known pyramid effects, will be disastrous. The countries from which the greatest increases in sponsorship are derived now are not European. These completely new immigration principles are merely another way of saying in migration first come, first served. 
This Parliament should examine very carefully what this policy would mean in practice. The Leader of the Opposition would have us believe that this policy will result in a decrease in non-European migration. Indeed, as recently as 11th October, the right honourable gentleman in an interview said: 
But the Indians are not - by history, by tradition - an emigrant people. 
Later, in the same interview, he said: 
The fact is that the Japanese, the Chinese, the Indians, the Indonesians, are not people that have emigrated to other countries at all. 
All I can say is that the Leader of the Opposition either deliberately misrepresented the position because he was in a hot seat or he has a deplorable knowledge of immigration trends. He would never be modest enough to concede that. The simple fact is that in the last year Australian authorities in India received no fewer than 50,000 inquiries about migration to Australia. That involves, on a conservative approach, up to 175,000 people. Would the Leader of the Opposition, with his new found formula, exclude these applicants? If so, how many? Remember that first come first served is a principle of absolutely no discrimination. On his own doctrinal thesis enunciated in Sydney, in Canberra, in Launceston and in Perth, he would not be able to do so. Every country surely has the right to a substantial control of its own immigration policy. 
Fifthly, this new policy surrenders the development of a homogeneous Australian community to a lassez-faire. uncontrolled and risky immigration policy. These were the very characteristics of immigration to Australia in the late nineteenth century - in Queensland we know it - and to Britain in the 1960s. In principle there is no difference. From overseas experience, as well as from our own history, we know that to alter this important aspect of Australian community life poses a very real threat to the security of the Australian people, especially of the Australian working man. The experience in the United Kingdom of recent years is only too well known. Every Australian Minister and shadow Minister for Immigration has, until now, pressed the desire for a socially cohesive, homogeneous community. The honourable member for Grayndler,  (Mr Daly),  who a short time ago was 'axed' as the shadow Minister for Immigration, and more especially the right honourable member for Melbourne, who was Australia's father of immigration, have always followed and believed in those principles. The same cannot be said, unfortunately, of the Leader of the Opposition. 
An immigration policy followed by successive governments - both Labor and Liberal-Country Party- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
An immigration policy followed by successive governments - both Labor governments and Liberal-Country Party governments - and a policy which has served this country well, would be totally repudiated, and that is the intention. No matter how often it is contended that this policy would not 'open the flood gates', the fact remains that, without any change in principle, these could be ripped open' in a moment, if the Opposition policies were to be adopted. It is not the thin end of the wedge; it is very much the thick end of the wedge. Uncontrolled migration clearly threatens a homogeneous community. The great tragedy is that these new principles which have been enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition and followed by some- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
 The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! I cannot allow an extension of time on the first period taken by a speaker unless noone rises on the other side of the chamber. As no-one is rising, I shall allow the Minister to take his second period now. 
I have only one sentence to finish my speech. The great tragedy is that these new principles which have been enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and supported by some of his colleagues could sacrifice the Australian people and, in particular, 
Australian working men, even if only to the plaudits of a few of his friends overseas. 
I move: 
Hat the Bill  be  now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the proposals which were announced by the treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the Budget Speech under which the Commonwealth would make direct grants of financial assistance to help the States continue to provide housing for low income groups. These proposals will replace the arrangements under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, which is not being renewed, lt may assist honourable members if I briefly outline those arrangements. Under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement such amounts as were nominated each year for housing by each State out of its annual Loan Council borrowing programme were advanced by the Commonwealth at a concessional rate of interest which was 1 per cent below the long-term bond rate. The States were requited to credit to home builders accounts for allocation to building societies and other institutions approved by the Minister at least 30 per cent of the housing advances made by the Commonwealth for the purpose of making housing loans to home seekers of moderate means. The remainder of the advances were used by State housing authorities to provide housing, primarily for persons of low or moderate means, with the proviso that they could be required to set aside in each year up to 5 per cent of the housing advances made by the Commonwealth for the construction of dwellings for servicemen's families. 
The States have for many years now received the benefit of a concessional rate of interest on funds made available by the Commonwealth for housing. Advances under the Housing Agreements with the States have been used to provide reasonably priced rental accommodation for low income families and to assist these families to own their own homes by the offer of low deposit long term loans at a concessional rate of interest. We believe that the 
Commonwealth should continue to asis 1 the States to provide housing for persons of low or moderate means but that the assistance should be provided in a different and more readily identifiable form, so that the amount of the benefit being provided can be seen by all. Under the provisions contained in this Bill the States will continue to determine the amount of their annual Loan Council borrowing programmes to be allocated to housing. In lieu of the interest concession on such alocations. clause 5 of the Bill makes provision for a grant of financial assistance te the States of $2.75m a year payable far a period of 30 years in respect of each of the years from 1971-72 to 1975-76. This grant alone represents in real terms a large and substantial increase over the previous interest concession. The grant is to be distributed among the States in the proportions set out in clause 5, which were decided upon after discussion with the States, but is subject to a State complying with the conditions set out in clauses T and 8 of the Bill. 
As the maintenance of a satisfactory flow of funds to building societies remains an important objective of our housing policy, the grant is subject to at least 30 per cent of the moneys set aside by a State for housing continuing to be paid to a home builders account for lending to persons of relatively modest means seeking housing loans through building societies and other approved institutions. However, the Minister may permit a State to pay to the home builders account a lesser percentage of the amount set aside by it for housing in exceptional circumstances, whether they be financial or involve, for example, a major bushfire or flood, when a State may wish to make a significant addition to its allocation of funds to its housing authority without that addition carrying a commitment to increase the allocation to the home builders account. I emphasise that the use of this discretion will not be a continuing one and it will be exercised only in exceptional circumstances. 
At least 30 per cent of the grant of financial assistance, therefore, is to be paid to the home builders account and used to reduce the payments, including interest, that but for the grant would have been required to be made in respect of loans to home seekers from home builders account moneys. So much of the grant as is not required to be credited to the home builders account is to be made available to the State's housing authority for the purpose of reducing the payments to that housing authority that would but for the grant have been required to be made by purchasers and tenants of housing authority dwellings. Because the annual grant of $2.75m a year is cumulative the States will receive in total, over the period for which it is payable, $412.5m. In addition to this cash payment the States will obtain a significant benefit which was not available under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. Because housing moneys will in future be part of the States' own borrowings through the Loan Council they will attract the benefit of the Commonwealth sinking fund contribution of 0.25 per cent per annum for 53 years. The worth of its contribution cannot be precisely estimated at present but it will be of the order of $1 14m over 53 years. 
In addition to the annual cumulative grant of S2.75m for which provision is made in clause 5, clause 10 provides for a non-cumulative grant of $ 1.25m each year for the next 5 years - a total of $6.25m. This grant of financial assistance is to be used by the housing authority of the State for the purpose of reducing the rents of dwellings for families they consider to have insufficient means to pay the rents ordinarily payable to the authority in respect of those dwellings. No comparable form of assistance was provided under the 1956-1966 Commonwealth and State housing Agreement The distribution of this grant among the States is to be in accordance with the proportions set down in clause 10 which were settled after discussion with the States. Overall, therefore, the States will receive from these proposals: From the basic grant a substantial increase in assistance over the 1 per cent interest concession formerly available; a new benefit from the Commonwealth's contribution to their sinking funds equivalent to an interest concession of nearly 0.3 per cent; and further assistance for their rental operations to the extent of S6.25m. 
Other clauses in the Bill require the States to furnish certain information necessary to establish that a State has complied with the conditions governing the payment of the grants and provide for the repayment of a grant if a State has failed to fulfil a condition relating to the payment of an amount of grant. Payments for the purposes of the Act are to be made in such amounts and at such times as the Minister determines out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is appropriated accordingly by clause 15 of the Bill. In addition to the grants of financial assistance for which provision is made in this Bill the Commonwealth has decided to relieve the States of the obligation to use portion of their housing funds for the purpose of building homes for serving members of the Forces. Henceforth the Commonwealth will advance all the funds for this purpose under an arrangement accepted in principle by the States, the details of which are being worked out. This will enable the States to devote more of their housing funds for the provision of welfare housing. The benefits for which provision is made in this Bill represent a new approach to Commonwealth housing assistance to the States. They are of much greater value than the arrangements provided under the Commonwealth and Slate Housing Agreement. The States have indicated their acceptance of the Commonwealth's proposals, and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill provides for an amendment to section 20 of the Homes Savings Grant Act consequential upon the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1971. Section 20 of the Homes Savings Grant Act provides for the payment of a grant of moneys to assist certain eligible persons who are purchasing or building their own homes. However, the section precludes the payment of a homes savings grant in respect of a dwelling house built by or for a State authority with money provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement if it is purchased from the authority, or from another person with the assistance of a loan of money provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. 
Under that Agreement such amounts as were nominated for housing by each State out of their Loan Council borrowing programmes were advanced by the Commonwealth at a concessional rate of interest, the benefit of which is passed on to purchasers of housing authority dwellings. Purchasers of subsidised homes built by the States with funds provided under the Agreement are excluded from the payment of a homes savings grant because they already receive a significant benefit from the interest concession and to ensure as far as possible that these homes are reserved for those wilh very small 'means and on low incomes. This housing is made available below its true economic cost for social reasons, and there are long waiting lists for the homes largely because they are relatively so cheap. It would be wrong to inflate these lists and disadvantage the most needy elements of the community. As from 1st July 1971, the Commonwealth will no longer make housing advances at concessional interest rates to the States. Instead, in accordance with arrangements provided for in the States Grants (Housing) Bil] 1971, it is proposed to make direct grants of financial assistance to the States to be used in part to reduce the payments that would otherwise be payable in respect of dwellings being purchased from a housing authority and built from moneys allocated to a housing authority from the States' borrowing programmes during the period covered by that Bill. 
The provisions of section 20 of the Homes Savings Grant Act which exclude the payment of a grant in respect of the purchase of certain housing authority homes are not expressed to apply to homes which are purchased from a housing authority or with a loan from a housing authority with the benefit of a grant of financial assistance under the arrangements provided in the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1971. Clauses 3 of the Homes Savings Grants Bill 1971 consequently provides for an extension to the existing disqualifications in section 20 to cover homes being purchased from a housing authority or with a loan from a housing authority where, by reason of a grant of financial assistance which has been applied in accordance with the provisions of sub-clause (2.) of clauses 8 of the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1971, payments in connection with the purchase are less than they otherwise would have been. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Interstate Standing Committee met on 28th-29th July 1971. 
At this meetinghe Committee concluded its work on Series 6 of the Australian Model Uniform Building Code dealing with Fire Protection in Assembly and Institutional Buildings, Special Requirements for Certain Buildings and Components, and General Services and Equipment 
(a) The date on which each Series of the AMUBC was sent to local government administrations is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The rate of interest charged to borrowers by permanent building societies varies from society to society. Most societies in New South Wales charge from 7 per cent to 8 per cent, the latter being the most common rate. In Queensland, the Building Societies Act limits interest rates charged by the societies to 8 per cent, and more than two-thirds of the societies charge this rate. In Western Australia, most societies charge from 8 per cent to 9 per cent, with 8 per cent being the most common. 
(a) and (b) The only data available on lending by the permanent building societies are statistics published by the Bureau of Census and Statistics. It is impracticable to calculate average loans from these statistics because the figures include the value, but not the number, of loans on second mortgage. 
For the reason given in (2) above and because decisions whether to grant a loan depend upon the policy of each lender and its assessment of the circumstances of individual cases, it is not possible to provide the information sought. 
The War Service Homes Bill which is currently before the House is to be debated later this week. I can assure the honourable member that when the Bill is passed in this House and, when it is passed, we hope, in the Senate, every opportunity will be taken to see that the applications for maximum advances or other advances will be expedited as quickly as possible. 
 These clauses relate lo contributions by the Commonwealth Government through the Home Builders Account, and through that account principally, to the co-operative terminating building societies. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who has led for the Opposition on this Bill, protested his concern for the terminating building societies which are mentioned in these clauses. Let me repeat what was said a little earlier, because the remarks are appropriate to these clauses: Very little concern has been shown for the co-operative terminating building societies. Very little sensitivity as to their future was expressed tonight, especially by the Opposition. These clauses are enshrined in the Bill so that their position will be protected and so that their position will be preserved. 
Anybody knows that the subventions from the Commonwealth, either through the old Commonwealth and State housing arrangements or through the arrangements which are appropriate to this Bill, are the mainstay of funds which are available to the co-operative terminating building societies. We intend to persist in this attitude. The attitude of the Government has been shown repeatedly tonight. It is a frame of mind which shows that these are important organisations which ought lo be increasingly assisted. The honourable member for Reid and the Opposition tonight, except for a few moments ago, have almost ignored their very existence. 
in reply - This debate has proceeded for quite a number of hours, and 1 do not intend to take too great a length of time in replying to the honourable members and their comments upon the Bill, lt is appreciated that this Bill is quite a complicated one, that it is one which deals in interest rates and the transpositions between grants and the effective interest rates to which they are equivalent. However, before the House votes on the Opposition's amendment, let me make this point: This Bill is designed to assist the States in their own housing activities. It is designed to assist the States to facilitate the building of dwellings for those who desire welfare housing. It does this by increasing the assistance which is provided through the State housing authorities and the assistance which goes through the home builder's account for the cooperative terminating building societies and the. other approved organisations. 
Before the vote is taken, let me quote to the House 3 comments that have been made about this Bill by 3 State Ministers for Housing so that members of the Opposition might appreciate the consequences of their proposed action. The Minister for Housing in my own State of Queensland was quoted by honourable members opposite tonight as having been very much against this Bill. He was quoted as persisting in his opposition to this Bill. As the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  mentioned earlier tonight in the Queensland Parliament, the Queensland Minister for Housing had this to say: 
While we have had some very frank discussions with the Commonwealth I must in all fairness to the Commonwealth say that I do not doubt for one minute the sincerity of its desire to assist the States in housing low and moderate income earners. I must further say that in some respects there are advantages to the States in the new Commonwealth proposals. 
Honourable members may appreciate that an acknowledgement from State Ministers is not wrung out of them very easily and that this is high praise indeed. The Labor Minister for Housing in Western Australia in the West Australian Legislative Assembly on 21st September, when reviewing the overall arrangements involved in this Bill, which comprise a grant, sinking fund arrangements, rental assistance and so on, said: 
On the basis of sinking fund contributions - 
In addition to the others - there is no doubt that the State will materially benefit. Taking either basis the State will be receiving a better financial arrangement than it would have had had the previous CommonwealthState Housing Agreement been extended. 
It might be borne in mind, when there are complaints coming from some members from Victoria, that the Victorian Housing Minister did not think that the Bill was an advantage. He obviously is in conflict with some other of his colleagues. The Minister for Housing in South Australia, speaking first of all with respect to the basic grant itself and nothing else, said: 
This new arrangement will amount to significantly more than the old 1 per cent concesion in Interest. 
He went on to say: lt is calculated that if two-thirds of the annual Commonwealth grant goes to the Housing Trust and one-third to the Home Builders Account- the minimum laid down by the Commonwealth is 30 per cent - it would be practicable to give the Housing Trust activities a rebate in interest charges of about  U  per cent and the Home Builders Account rather more than 1 per cent. 
That is influenced by the quantity which South Australia varies. He said further: 
This would mean that whereas loan money has cost the State 7 per cent per annum interest during the year up to date, for a loan now open it is reduced to 6.7 per cent. The charge for Housing Trust activities can be kept to +1 per cent per annum. 
It is concerning this that the Opposition will vote soon. 
Loans through the Home Builders Account, including administrative margins for the lending authorities and the Treasury, will presently remain at  6i  per cent per annum. 
In summary he said: 
On the effective assistance towards interest, this Commonwealth provision is an undoubted improvement. The Government would have liked it higher but il will help to put a brake on the necessary increases in rentals which were arising out of increasing capital and maintenance costs and high interest rates. It will not, unfortunately entirely avoid the necessity for periodic rental adjustments as costs continue to rise, but a substantial and real improvement on any calculations and on any terms that the Bill would be considered under. 
The Opposition's amendment relates to at least 3 things: lt looks at the adequacy of the funds available; it looks at certain levels - certain groups which might inhabit State authority homes; and it expresses a desire that funds be made available to acquire existing dwellings for restoration and allocation by rental or sale. Let me deal with some of these matters. The funds, as is perfectly clear, are very substantially increased. Some honourable members were concerned about the rate of escalation - -the fact that because a fixed amount is given, which is applied to 30 years for each year of housing, no escalation factor has been included in such calculations. An escalation factor was included and increased above that which has been experienced in the past, so escalation has been accounted for and more than accounted for in the initial calculations. Then there were the groups about which the Opposition showed some concern - low income earners. It is for the States to determine who would be appropriate to receive welfare housing. 
Pensioners also were mentioned. Currently, the Commonwealth has a scheme to assist pensioners and I have just given approval for some 170  -  I think that is the number - units to be constructed throughout the Commonwealth for the housing of single pensioners at rentals which lie between $2.50 and $3 a week. This actually is being done now. With respect to migrants, honourable members will see that already they have a scheme which is available and which actively varies according to the level of migrant intake. Also there is an extensive scheme to develop housing for Aborigines.. 1. understand that some thousands of units have been built under this scheme. The scheme is providing $25m to the States over a 5-year period and, so far, expenditure has been J 14.6m for more than 2,000 dwellings. 
The amendment refers also to deserted wives and similarly disadvantaged people, lt was because it was known that the rental rebates have grown for the States that the Commonwealth proposes to do 2 things in this Bill, if it is passed. Firstly, the Commonwealth proposes to increase the level of real assistance to the States so that they might determine from their own experience those who are liable to receive rental rebates. This has always been the case. Secondly, a special rental assistance grant is included in the Bill. This is an entirely new provision. It is not to be at a level coincident with the rental rebates given by the States but is to be a welcome assistance to the rebates they organise out of their other funds - their greatly increased funds. These are measures of real assistance. As the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  so correctly pointed out, one thing is missing in this amendment. The factor that is missing - it was missing from almost every speech from the Opposition, especially that of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  - is any reference whatsoever to the Home Builders Account. 
The honourable member has been reminded, so he will mention this factor in the Committee stages. Let those gentlemen who are concerned with the operation of the cooperative terminating building societies in Australia know full well that with a change of government they are not likely to receive very tender consideration. I remind those people who do not want to operate through State housing authorities but who desire to have some assistance with respect to their own loans for housing activities that it has been clearly foreshadowed that assistance to them will not be very readily forthcoming. It will have to be rung out of the government were there to be a change of government. I do not think that brooks any argument. So far it has been made perfectly clear that the States want this Bill. They want the increase in assistance and the increase in the flexibility of their own arrangements which would accompany the passage of this Bill. 
in reply - This Bill comprises a very narrow amendment to the Homes Savings Grant Act, and the amendment intends to continue those homes in respect of which a home savings grant would apply. Under the Act as it was homes built by or for State housing authorities and for the tenants of those authorities with Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement money were not homes which attracted a home savings grant. This amendment ensures that homes built by State housing authorities as a result of the subventions under the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1971 will be in a similar position without any variation. So it is intended to continue the situation as it has been in the past. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  made one or two points which deserve to be commented upon. I think he suggested at one stage that the home savings grant was rather a gimmick. That word has been used by others. It is stated that that word was used in Melbourne also. There are many thousands of applicants who have been very pleased to receive the grant under the Homes Savings Grant Act, and I can assure the honourable member that neither they nor the Government regards this scheme as a gimmick. But in addition to this in the 7 years that the scheme has been in operation the Government has kept the value limit on homes that may qualify under review in the light of the prevailing levels of cost and the principles under which this has applied were stated in 1964 by the then Minister for Housing, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury).  At that time he said: 
The homes savings grant is aimed at assisting those who need and merit financial aid in acquiring a home. Those acquiring expensive homes stand in less need of assistance from the taxpayer whose interests must also be weighed. 
When the scheme was introduced in 1964 with effect from 2nd December 1963 the value limit was $14,000. By progressive escalation the limit has now risen to $17,500. The honourable member for Hughes also wanted to know whether those people who operate under Home Builders Account arrangements do so as advantageously, less advantageously or in any way different from those people whose rate of interest was that applicable to State housing authorities. 
I might illustrate the point fromwhat I said in an earlier speech this evening. The effective rates of interest under the Home Builders Account are generally significantly above those which apply to those people who have their homes built by State housing authorities. Honourable members will recollect that I mentioned that in South Australia, for example, under this Act the State Housing Trust activities will be operated at a level of 4 per cent and 4 per cent and those authorities obtaining money from the Home Builders Account in that State will be obtaining it at an effective rate significantly above 6 per cent. 
So there is a difference. There is a second difference. This difference is in terms of the years of repayment. It is important to remember that Home Builders Account funds often have to be repaid much more quickly than funds for homes which are acquired from State housing authorities. In some cases the difference is 25 years as against 45 and in other cases it is 30 years as against 45. The number of years varies as between different institutions in Australia. 1 am speaking about the totality of Australia. So there is a difference. This amendment intends to continue-- 
What the honourable member for Bennelong has said is quite correct. There is no means test on homes savings grants and this principle is always applied. The Government suggests that, to continue the arrangements that have been so well received in the past and to continue the beneficial arrangements under the States Grants (Housing) Bill 1971 of which this short amendment is part, the Bill should be passed by the House. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Uren's amendment) stand part of the question. 
It is quite obvious that this question has been inspired by some speculation in a weekly journal. The correct part of that speculation was that I did in fact go to New Zealand. It is not my desire to comment upon quite idle speculation but, with respect to that speculation, 1 can say that that proposition, which quite obviously has inspired the question, is not being proposed by me. 
We have been privileged to listen to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  who has given his characteristic explanation of the value of this Bill. We are' proud also to be able to agree with the honourable member for Mitchell in his assessment of Australia's obligations in the world. Those obligations were undertaken by many Australians. Reference was made earlier this afternoon to those obligations. This Bill is not a large one compared with other War Service Homes Bills, lt was designed primarily to increase the maximum loan which can be advanced under the War Service Homes Act. I am grateful that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John ' Cramer),  who seems to be the butt of many charges by the Opposition, the honourable member for Mitchell and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  have been able to describe clearly and explicitly the value of the assistance which the War Service Homes Act gives to those purchasers and borrowers who undertake and receive loans under the Act. 
The level of the assistance to be given as a result of this Bill cannot properly be assessed unless it is realised that the interest rate remains at 3) per cent. It is true that the maximum advance will be increased from $8,000 to $9,000; but what is often unstated is that the interest rate will remain at 3f per cent with respect to this advance. It is appropriate to put into context . some of the criticisms that have been made of the Bill. Those who suggest that the amount of the loan is insufficient and who compare the cost of homes in various parts of Australia with the loan of $9,000 do so in a very lopsided manner. For example, were a loan of $8,000, negotiated on what are generally going rates of interest, to be compared with a loan negotiated under the rate of interest applicable under this Bill, an appropriate question to ask would be: What would be the total amount paid in interest to service that loan over the period for which the loan would apply? In other words, what is the comparison of the value of $8,000- or $9,000 - at  3i  per cent interest, with the same amount of money at 7 per cent or 8 per cent interest? That is what people are paying elsewhere in the community. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and many other members of the Opposition have indicated that such interest rates are being charged outside the scheme. 
Under the War Service Homes Act the loan applies for 45 years and, at the rests that are appropriate, at 3) per cent, $8,000-odd has to be paid in interest over that period. Let us compare that with what applies to other loans for housing. Even for 45 years an extra $10,000 would have to be paid, making a total of $18,000 compared with $8,000. The same comparison applies to loans of $9,000. This indicates what a great relative and real advantage this proposal represents compared with what can be obtained otherwise in Australia. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  knows it, because be has had some recent experience in this field. 
The comparison can be put in another way. What is the total interest charge at 7 per cent on a loan of $9,000 compared with one at 3) per cent interest? This is a rather complicated calculation. It would be between $12,000 and SI 2,500. They are the types of comparisons which are appropriate to a proper conception of the fundamental nature of the Bill. Under those circumstances, and given the fact that this advance has been increased under current economic conditions, the extent of the Government's concern with respect to war service homes activities is well demonstrated. After all, however one may like it and however one may dispute it, the fact is that fairy tale economics cannot make these sums available. Economics consists of an analysis of costs and of what alternatives are available. The Government has made it perfectly clear that it wants to give a real measure of increased assistance to war service homes activities, and it has done so. 
The other features of the Bill relate to the types of security which can be negotiated and which may be appropriate for a Joan. These apply to certain leases which are more applicable to New South Wales, such as conditional purchase leases, certain kinds of State leases and local authority leases for a period not less than 99 years. I hope that those provisions of the Bill, which are rather technical, will be well received by all the honourable members from New South Wales on both sides of the House. In addition (o that, it is appropriate to consider some of the comments that have been made as to the alleged profit making aspect of war service homes activities. I find it very difficult to understand the reasoning in (his case. The provision of war service homes, as a financial enterprise, is not a profit-making activity. A table incorporated in a speech by the honourable member for Reid shows that in the 50 years since the inception of the scheme and for the period from 1950-51 it has not been a profit-making activity. I will quote some of these figures. Capital expenditure from the inception of the scheme to 30th June 1971 was $1.400m. The receipts with respect to that expenditure run at something over $900m. The gap illustrates not a profit-making activity but rather the reverse. 
The loan balances outstanding at this moment are well over $900m. So the scheme is certainly nol a profit-making activity in a fully employed economy. Taking the period from 1950-51 to the present time, which was alleged lo have been rather more favourable, lcl me refer to the table which was introduced by the honourable member for Reid. I have done a quick sum, and it may be inexpert. The receipts from interest and repayments were less than $900m. The capital expenditure over the period was in excess of $l,200m. Whatever analysis is made over whatever substantial period of time, it will be seen that this is not a profit-making activity. Therefore one looks askance at the proposition that, because it is allegedly a profit making activity, it ought to be expanded to cover the whole community. The converse argument would be that, because it is in fact not a profit making activity, it may be impossible to expand it to the rest of the community. Let me make one other point in relation to this matter. A number of speakers have indicated that criticism of the Bill by the Opposition ls in the context of an overall housing policy supported by the Opposition. I have done some costing on housing policies supported by the Opposition and I understand that, On any analysis- 
I was pointing out some of the errors in the analyses put forward by members of the Opposition. I did not advance these matters. I am indicating some of the errors that are appropriate to be mentioned. It is my obligation to indicate these errors. We must have an addiction for the truth, lt is the Government's desire to have that addiction on this occasion. Were such a scheme to be expanded to cover the whole of the community an extra S880m would be involved each year. From an analysis of other policy measures of the Opposition we can see that an extra $780m a year would be involved in expenditure on health and education proposals. As time goes by no doubt our sums will become more cumulative and more continuing. However, I return to the precise nature of the Bill. This Bill will be well received, lt will assist many men who desire assistance under it. It will assist the furtherance of the most generous and the best housing scheme in Australia. 
While I am summing up I must refer to one or two points which were also made by the honourable member for Bennelong. He appreciated the real value of this measure. He said that the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation might be given special permission to undertake insurance on second mortgage loans taken out by men who negotiated an advance under this Bill. He will appreciate that the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation is at present debarred from insuring mortgages on loans advanced by the Commonwealth but. of course, those mortgages can be insured by other mortgage insurance corporations at substantially similar rates of interest. So this Bill has as its principal aim the extension of the war service homes scheme. It is a scheme which has been in operation for over 5 decades and we think that this measure, which is designed principally to increase the maximum loan to $9,000 at 31 per cent interest, deserves the support of the House. 
The Government does not accept the amendment for several reasons. If the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  were accepted, many servicemen would be omitted as being those who would qualify for an advance under the Act, as is indicated in section 4 of the Act. The amendment would also have the effect in the present circumstances of disadvantaging those who presently qualify under the Act for war service homes advances. The principal reason for which the amendment is not accepted is that the principle has been that the eligibility under the War Service Homes Act has been based traditionally on enlistment for -active service abroad or actual service in lime of war or with respect to warlike operations. These circumstances occurred when the serviceman concerned was exposed to hazards of a warlike nature and beyond those of normal peace time service. This is the principle of policy which has underlain this Act for many years and is the one to which we presently hold. It has been in fact the philosophy of the Act over 50 years. The amendment proposes to alter that philosophy. 
Furthermore, the extension of this service in the way in which the honourable member for Reid and other members of the Opposition have indicated would have several effects. They would be effects of a quantitative nature applicable to those who presently qualify. As I said, these effects would be several in number. Firstly, a significant waiting time would have lo be introduced. We have been able lo gut away from having a waiting time as has applied in the past. A little over a year ago a significant waiting time applied - the waiting time then was for a period of up to  6  months. We have been able to get away from that state of affairs. The only waiting time that is appropriate now is the necessary period required for the processing of applications. 
Also, if the Opposition's amendment was carried the appropriation would have to be altered. That is not an impossible condition. But if the waiting time was not to be altered it would be impossible under the present economic conditions and under the present appropriations to service those advances in the way in which they have been serviced in the past. For these reasons, and having regard to the philosophy of this Act which has been supported many times in this chamber, the Government does not accept the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Reid. 
 The amendment, as proposed at the moment, seeks to amend the definition of 'Australian Soldier' in subsection (1.) and to insert in its stead the following definition: 
Australian Soldier' means a serving member of the Forces. ... 
A number of objections have been raised to this amendment and a number of comments have been made upon this point. To meet some of the objections which have been raised concerning those who may go into an area in which warlike activities are taking place, as referred to by the former Minister for the Navy, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  would require that they be designated as being eligible for advances under the War Service Homes Act by virtue of the special duty provision which is included in the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act. A special duty in relation to a special area means a duty relating directly to warlike operations or a state of disturbance by reason of which a declaration in respect of the area has been made by regulation in accordance with section 4 of the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act. 
If the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  were adopted paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f), of sub-section (1.) of section 4 of the War Service Homes Act would be excluded immediately. These paragraphs include a number of categories. I will read the whole section. This is the section in respect of which a substitution would be made- 
Then, the enormity of the proposition ought to be realised. The definition 'Australian Soldier' applies to an appropriate section of the War Service Homes Act. The acceptance of the amendment to this definition would have an effect on the administration of the Act which we would regard to be unfair compared with the conditions that have applied in the past. We do not accept the amendment moved by the Opposition. The section which, as I mentioned a few moments ago, would be omitted includes this provision: 
Australian Soldier' means a person who, during the continuance of  the  war which commenced  in  the year One thousand nine hundred and fourteen ... 
It would also apply to other areas of conflict. For these reasons, the Government does not accept the proposed amendment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 provides for an amount of $25 million to be made available to the States during the five years 1969-70 to 1973-74. An amount equal to one-fifth of the $25 million is available to the States for expenditure each year and any amount available but not advanced during a year is available for expenditure in succeeding years within the five year period. The amount available to each State, tin a pro-rata basis, in each of the years 1969-70 and 1970-71 was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Homes Savings Grant Act precludes the payment of a home savings grant in respect of a dwelling house built by or for a State authority with money provided under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement if it is purchased ' from the authority, or from another person with the assistance of a loan of money provided under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
Purchasers of subsidised homes built by the Stales with funds provided under the Agreement are excluded from the payment of a home savings grant because they already receive a significant benefit from the interest concession, and to ensure as far as possible that these homes are reserved for those with, very small means and on low incomes. 
and (3) The Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement under which housing advances  were  made by the Commonwealth to the States at concessional interest rates is not being renewed. Instead, the Commonwealth will make direct grants to help the Slates continue to provide housing for lower income groups. For reasons explained in the Second Reading Speech on the Homes Savings Grants Bill 1971 purchasers of homes built by State housing authorities who receive the benefit of the new form of Commonwealth housing assistance will not be eligible for a home savings grant. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The rate of interest charged to borrowers by permanent building societies varies from society to society, and one society may charge different rates for various classes of loans. Available information does not allow an average to be calculated of the interest rates charged by all societies to borrowers. However, as at August 1964, the interest rates charged by most permanent building societies in Australia fell within the range of 6 per cent per annum to 74 per cent per annum. 
The latest review showed that in October 1971 most building societies in Australia were charging between 7 per cent per annum and8 per cent per annum. 
and (4)It is impracticable to calculate the total interest payable on a long term loan from a permanent building society. This is because: 
interest rates are not normally fixed for the whole period of a loan - they are usually subject to variation according to the rules of the society; 
interest rates vary among societies and the societies apply different rest periods in calculating interest. 
The amendment which has been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  is the third amendment which has been proposed by the Opposition to this section of the Act. It is worth reflecting for one or two moments why it was found necessary to move a third amendment. A number of accusations have been thrust about the chamber this afternoon. I would like to point out as quickly and as calmly as possible why it was found necessary by the 
Opposition to move an amendment different from that which it attempted to move on 2 previous occasions. In going back to the year 1968 and in bringing the 1968 amendment forward again, we pointed out to the Opposition that this was an effective amendment to the definition of an Australian soldier for the purposes of the Act. The amendment which the Opposition proposed would have effectively deleted for the purposes of the war service homes advance many members of the naval, military and air forces of Australia who had participated in previous conflicts and who presently have an entitlement under the Act. That is the reason for which it was decided to allow and for which the Government allowed the Opposition to amend the amendments which it had moved in previous years and which interestingly enough it had attempted to implement in previous years with all the consequences of that implementation. 
The War Service Homes Act has a certain philosophy and the philosophy of that Act is quite clear. Eligibility under the War Service Homes Act in times of wars is related to enlistment for active service and in times which are not times of general conflict it is related to participation in warlike activities in certain zones. This touches, of course, the point made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  when he referred to certain naval men and air force men who have gone to Vietnam or who have gone to areas in which conflict is taking place and who under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act do not qualify for certain repatriation benefits and for certain war service homes benefits. The nub of that comment is clearly contained in section 4 of the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act. That Act declares what is a special area in relation to which special duty may be performed by men of the forces who go to that area. That proposition is covered by the regulations which would be promulgated under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act. As was pointed out - it was pointed out quite clearly - this is a wider proposition than one which is merely related to the War Service Homes Act which we are considering this afternoon and is a different proposition from that which is related to the amendment proposed to this clause. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  was concerned that the housing conditions or the home ownership conditions - that is an important distinction - for members of the regular forces should be varied. He has received an assurance, a valid assurance, that this matter is being examined, lt is under examination at this moment. Honourable members know that certain proposals have been put forward which will require a great deal of examination, and we hope that something can be done with respect to this matter. The home ownership conditions which relate to the members of the regular forces, members who do not otherwise qualify under the War Service Homes Act provisions, are being considered at this very moment. 
A number of other propositions have been put forward. Let me deal with 2 of them which have been put forward by the Opposition very late in this debate. So far as I am aware, during the war there was no 6 months provision with respect to enlistment for overseas service to qualify for benefit under the War Service Homes Act. The other suggestion by the Opposition is that the War Service Homes Division has been operating profitably. Honourable members opposite under the analysis trotted out, as they have done on many occasions, figures for the last 5 years. Profitability is not determined on one year, 2 years or 5 years in any venture. It is determined over ihe length of operation of the venture. Of course honourable members opposite stopped at the 5 years in this case. If they had examined the figures over 10, 15 or 20 years or from the commencement of operations by the War Service Homes Division they would have seen that it is not by any measure of profitability a profitable venture. That does not alter the Government's attitude. We do not relate our activities to the profitability or otherwise of the War Service Homes Division or to the activities which are pursued by the Director of the War Service Homes Division. 
The Government rejects the amendment which has been proposed by the Opposition for several reasons, lt is quite clearly contrary to the philosophy of the Act as it has existed for many years. That philosophy was administered effectively under Labor governments as well as under conservative governments. The Government desires that those eligible persons who are applicants now under the Act be protected. If an amendment such as the one which was nominated were passed those men would not be protected. One of two things would happen. Either the subventions would have to increase very greatly, requiring a decrease in the maximum advance which is made available under the Act to either purchasers or borrowers, or matters such as waiting times would have tobe instituted. It has been the desire to avoid waiting time over the years. During this year it has been possible to avoid waiting time other than normal processing time. We have given an assurance that the Government will look to see what can be done concerning home ownership activities of regular servicemen. This is being done and I know that this assurance will receive the goodwill of those honourable members on the Government side who have expressed concern over this matter. But above all the Government rejects the' amendment because it is desired that the Bill be passed with the benefits contained in it for those people who traditionally are applicants for war service homes approvals. We suggest that if the Bill were widened in the way suggested by the Opposition the benefits which can accrue under the legislation would be emasculated quite significantly, and the Government is opposed to that situation. 
---The intention of the Government is that this Bill, be passed through this Parliament as quickly as possible so that the benefits which are included in the Bill will be available to those who desire them. It has been argued that the benefits are minimal - that they are almost not desired - but, of course, those hundreds of people who are waiting anxiously for this legislation to pass disagree with that proposition.  The amendments which have been moved by the shadow Minister for Housing, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  seek to alter the maximum advance which  is  available under the Act. Let me make it perfectly clear that it is the intention of the Government to increase the maximum advance available to $9,000 at 3 per cent interest. The $9,000 is to be available to purchasers as well as to borrowers under the Act. 
It goes almost without saying that an advance of an amount of money at any period of time and in any economic situation must be considered in the situation in which it is advanced. For example, to advance money at 3 per cent now is very different from a proposition to advance it in the middle 1920s, the middle 1930s or the middle 1940s. So, it is appropriate to consider whether this represents a real advantage. There are 2 calculations thatI would put to the Committee in order to demonstrate what is involved in this proposition. Is the $9,000 advanced at 3 per cent under this Act a real benefit or is it a sham benefit? It represents a real contribution of something like $10,000 over the time of the repayment of such a loan. That fact should be appreciated. In other words, were such a loan to be paid off over 40 years at interest rates which are chargeable by other organisations in the community and under the same conditions as apply under this Act, a person would pay $10,000 more than one who was repaying the money under the conditions of the War Service Homes Act. It is a real benefit of that amount. Unfortunately, the interest rate provision may disguise the significance of that benefit. 
We could put the argument in another and different way. What would the $9,000 advance available at  3  per cent be equivalent to in terms of an advance were it made at 7 per cent? It would be equivalent to something like $12,500 to $13,000 were it made at going rates of interest. So. whichever way it is considered, we suggest that this is a real increase in benefits. We know from the applications that are coming into the Department that there are many applicants - many eligible persons - who desire to take advantage of this benefit. The Government desires that this legislation should pass through this chamber and through the other place as quickly as possible so that this benefit will be made available to those people who are yearning for it to be made available. Therefore, the Government does not accept the 2 amendments which have been proposed by the Opposition. 
Motion (by  Mr Graham)  put - 
That the question be now put. 
 The Government does not accept the amendments which have been proposed by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and I am sure that he is not surprised at this. The Government does not accept them for a number of reasons which are quite valid. One of these reasons is that his amendments would so reduce the flexibility of the administration of the War Service Homes Act and of those provisions applying both to loans and second assistances as to disadvantage considerably those people receiving assistance under the Act. 
The second reason the Government does not accept the amendments is that they would be to no purpose. In fact, there are other provisions in the Act which give the power of ministerial direction and these provisions have been passed over by the honourable member for Reid. If these provisions were ignored and the amendments were accepted by the Parliament, they would have no meaning whatsoever. For example, an attempt has been made to amend section 20 of the principal Act concerning ministerial direction. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid is as follows: 
Section 20 of the Principal Act is amended- by omitting from  sub-section  (1.) the words 'Subject to this Act and io the directions of .the Minister' . . . and inserting in their stead the words 'Subject to this Act, the Director may, upon application in writing, unless prevented by the regulations'. 
The honourable member wants to substitute regulations for the direction of the Minister. 
The second clause which is proposed to be amended is a similar kind of provision. We could ask where we would arrive if the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Reid was passed. We would arrive nowhere. The fact is that during a speech earlier this evening the honourable member mentioned some of the ministerial directions that have been given over the years as being ones with which he did not agree. I might mention that one of these ministerial directions was given by a Labor Minister. The honourable member thought that by amending this section he would in fact delete the possibility of such directions. One of those directions was given under section 5(1.) of the Act, which states: 
There shall be a Director of War Service Homes, who shall be appointed and employed in accordance with, and subject to the provisions of, the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-1947 and who shall, subject to the directions of the Minister, be responsible for the execution of this Act. 
It is proposed that section 5 remain but that section 20 and section 20a be amended. I suggest that if carried, such amendments would become almost meaningless. For example, the honourable member for Reid, in speaking to his amendment in regard to section 20a of the Act, refers to the taking away of the right of ministerial direction. This section has dealt over many years with the conditions of second advances. Let me make 2 points about this. Were ministerial direction to be deleted in respect of this matter, flexibility would not occur and considerable disadvantages would accrue to those people who are in fact applying for these advantages. We know that regulations are slow of manipulation. They cannot be promulgated quickly. In fact, they can be promulgated quite slowly on a number of occasions. 
Let me indicate the criteria of judgment with respect to second advances which have developed over the years and which may not have developed at the right time and in fact which may not have developed at all were such a power of ministerial direction to be deleted. One of the criteria with respect to second advances often is the position of widows - the requirement of widows to move from one house to another. Another criteria concerns medical requirements of those people who have second advances. A great many individual judgments have to be made concerning each case. Almost the philosophy of the War Service Homes Act is that it is an Act which depends upon individual judgments as to each applicant. That is the reason why such a lot of expertise and tradition has been built up concerning the administration of the Act. They would both be placed in jeopardy if the amendments proposed were carried by this Parliament. Examples would include the application for a second advance where there had been acquisition of homes for public purposes and things of this nature. Criteria of judgment have applied in such cases which would in fact be disadvantaged if the amendments moved by the honourable member for Reid were passed. If the Committee did agree to the amendments what would happen? Section 20a, which the honourable member proposes to amend, refers only to the making of advances in regard to war service homes. There is an attempt here to change the power of a Minister in relation to advances. But the Minister is left completely without any comment in the case of those who purchase homes. 
For example,  I  refer to section  19b  in which the matter of purchasing is referred to. Why, then, apply a restriction on direction to advances when purchases are in no way restricted whatsoever? It is difficult to find a strain of judgment through the amendments. In fact one would be advantaged or otherwise. In section  19b  the matter of purchaser would be left completely unattended to. For these reasons, as well as for others which I think are cogent reasons, the Government does not accept the amendments put forward by the honourable member for Reid. 
The Government does not accept the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  which will not surprise him in the slightest. Let me state very briefly that the Government does not accept it for a number of important reasons. It is very important to determine the definition of the word 'incapacitated' in the matter of widows relief. The Opposition has not proposed a definition of the word. If this new concept requiring a judgment of the incapacity or otherwise of a person, or the spouse of a person, who will obtain a loan were imported, then the general criteria for judgment which are already used before an advance is made would be put aside. For example, in section 28 the general criteria are nominated, but they are judged extremely leniently and extremely lightly. Section 28 of the Act states: 
The Director may, at his discretion, refuse to enter into a contract for the sales of any land or land and dwelling-house . . . unless he is satisfied that the person has a reasonable prospect of carrying out the terms of the contract of sale . . . 
A commercial judgment is not made by the Director. He does not make the kind of judgment made by finance officers of hire purchase companies. If the matter of incapacity is to be imported into the determination in section 29aa new principles will be imported into the judgment regarding those to whom relief may be given. 
For other reasons the Government does not accept the amendment. If the amendment were accepted what is generally known as widows' relief would then not apply to widows but to people who are otherwise eligible. We are going to have a contradiction here between judgments as regards eligible people and we will have the importation of a judgment as to capacity. I suggest that clause 5A.(e) proposed by the honourable member for Reid may be covered to a certain extent in a number of cases by section 45 of the Act, under which payments for eligible persons may be extended for some time, but the conditions under which this occurs cannot require a lot of individual judgments to be made. Once you get away from the matter of judgments to be made in the cases which require consideration you are going to destroy almost the very philosophy of the Act. For those reasons the Government does not accept the amendment proposed by the Opposition. 
Pursuant to section 50b of the War Service Homes Act 1918-1968, 1 present the annual report of the Director of War Services Homes for the year ended 30th June 1971. An interim report was presented to the House on 8th September 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comprehensive statistics necessary for the preparation of a reply to these questions are not available. 
Canberra: Crown Lease at Braddon (Question No. 4679)  Mr Enderby  asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
When was a crown lease for Block, 41, Section 4, Braddon, Australian Capital Territory, first issued? 
What was the unimproved value of the block at the time of issue? 
On what dates since has the block been revalued, and what has been the unimproved value on each occasion? 
Can he say whether the residential land in the neighbourhood has become less attractive and less valuable for residential purposes since the construction of shops in Lowanna Street and Northbourne Avenue?; 
Since the first valuation, has the value of the block increased by approximately 465 per cent? 
If so, what caused this increase in value? 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
and (2) Under the new arrangements for Commonwealth financial assistance  lo  the Slates for housing the Commonwealth is no longer advancing housing moneys to the States  at a  concessional interest rate. Instead, the States will receive cash grants from the Commonwealth as explained in my Second Reading Speech on the States Grants (Housing) Bill  on  the 4th November (Hansard PP 3035). The legislation requires that each State housing authority's share of the basic housing grant must be used by it to reduce the economic rentals and purchase payments that, but for the grant, would have had to be charged. 
Magistrates with Federal Jurisdiction (Question No. 3622) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost of capitalising a family's child endowment would vary with the size of the family, the rates of endowment and the ages of the children. In addition, in New Zealand the amounts advanced when family benefits are capitalised are influenced by family circumstances, the discount rates applicable and expected mortality rates. 
It is therefore impracticable to give a precise answer to the honourable member's question unless appropriate details of the size of family, the ages of the children and the interest rate and other factors are taken into account. 
The Bill which was passed in this House during the last sessional period has been accepted by all the States. And so it should be accepted by all the States because its very, very great benefits have now become obvious. The very unhappy fact is that the Bill was passed in this House against the very stringent and determined opposition of the Australian Labor Party. The benefits which have clearly flowed from that Bill have come against the opposition of the Australian Labor Party. I do not suggest that the Bill was opposed with any malevolence. I suggest it was opposed only out of ignorance. 
I think it is appropriate for me to review very quickly the operation of the Act in the last 3 to 4 months. One result has been the greatest decline in interest rates charged for welfare housing ever sustained or experienced in this country. There has been in fact a decline in interest rates, not associated with the decline in bond rates but substantially determined before there was a decline in bond rates, of between 0.25 par cent and 1.7 per cent. Those calculations are made of various types of housing by the different States. Therefore, in general there is a range of interest rates now chargeable on Stab welfare housing and to the home builders account to the co-operative terminating societies of the order of 5 per cent to 5S per cent and 51 per cent. Very substantial benefits have flowed to those people who need housing assistance. 1 repeat thai it is rather sad that due not to malevolence but to ignorance the Bill had to be passed in this House and in the Senate against the opposition of the Australian Labor Party. 
I must thank the honourable member for Reid for asking me this question because it enables me to put into context some of the comments he has been making in recent times. But I must make this point quite clear: The alacrity with which the honourable member for Reid will embrace any interpretation of figures which are gloomy rather depresses me, as it should depress the country. He has not understood the figures he has quoted, nor does he understand the industry about which he has made some comments. So let me answer the 6 parts of the question quickly and shortly. In respect of housing activity in the country there are figures for approvals and details of completions, commencements and the amount of finance approved for housing. To grab any one piece of data and build a gloomy case upon it merely indicates a narrowness of outlook which is not appropriate to the honourable member. The answer to the other question he asked is that there is an equilibrium level of housing taking place in Australia which is appropriate to the desire of the Australian people, and the level of that housing activity in this country for a number of years has been either the highest or second highest in the world per thousand of population. It is of an order which would not be encouraged were the honourable member for Reid ever to be given any responsibility in government. 
The honourable member for Reid referred also to some comments made by a  Mr Dalton  of New South Wales concerning finance for housing and other matters. I also saw a comment by  Mr Dalton  recently that as a result of the rise in the price of steel the cost of an average house constructed in New South Wales - a house to the value of $14,000 or so - would increase by $280 or $290. To attract that kind of rise a house would need to have $5,500 worth of steel in it. I can only say that builders must be building castles and not houses. The last point referred to by the honourable member concerning interest rates needs to be emphasised. There have been very substantial declines in the interest rates on housing in a number of fields over recent months. The greatest decreases in interest rates on housing have occurred with respect to welfare housing in the three fields of housing under the responsibility of State authorities, both for rental and for purchase, and housing which is financed through the home builders account of the cooperative terminating societies. Those interest rate reductions have been of the order of H per cent. They occurred before there was a decline in the long term bond rate. Were the advice of the honourable member for Reid and the Opposition to have been followed none of the declines in interest rates would have been allowable because they opposed the Bill which in fact enabled these reductions to occur. 
In accordance with the undertaking given during the last parliamentary session in 1971 a scheme for home ownership by serving members of the Services who would not otherwise qualify for war service homes has been considered. Further details of the scheme that has been put forward are currently being examined. When it is appropriate to announce those details they will be made known. The honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Herbert, who have shown great interest in this matter, will be informed at the appropriate time as well as this House. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has made rather a quaint case this evening. He has sophisticated the case from that which was made in previous debate on matters such as this by himself and by other honourable members who led for the Opposition. He tended to create the impression first of all that the Australian Labor Party was concerned with the rights and needs of all forms of education but fell into the trap once again of using the wealth of particular schools as a weapon to push his Party's own sense of a needs policy. He attempted then to justify that policy not by referring to Australia but by referring to  Sir Edward  Boyle in the United Kingdom and practices there. I do not intend to refer to any practices overseas in looking at the consequences' of the Opposition's proposition but merely to look at. the Opposition's promises as to how it will administer its schools commission and its needs policy. I would look, as the honourable member for Fremantle did in the latter part of his speech, at the very philosophy that would pervade an education system administered by the Opposition. There are 3 matters I intend to look at: At the rich schools which are utilised as a weapon to destroy aid to all schools; at the validity of using overseas experience where Australian experience is appropriate; and at the actual administration of the Opposition's policy by Labor governments where they have effective power. But before I do let me make one passing comment. 
It comes rather strange from the honourable member for Fremantle that he should be concerned wilh education. The Opposition for years has been able to speak from a fundamentally theoretical position. It has cried about education. Cri de coeur have come from (his place regularly over the years but, to their own detriment in a sense, Labor governments have been elected in a number of States in Australia and one can test their administration where they have effective power. Let me point this out very quickly and very shortly because it is appropriate. At the recent Premiers Conference there was a change in borrowing programmes allowed for each of the States in respect of works and housing. Some of this was to be delimited for education. But the 2 Sta es which have either not allocated any funds for education or have made the smallest allocation of any State in Australia have been the 2 Labor States. Let me give an illustration. Of the funds made available at that Conference, New South Wales has authorised 20 per cent of its allocation for education; Victoria has authorised 30 per cent; Queensland, has hot yet decided; South Australia has allocated 10 per cent; Western Australia is still making up its mind; and Tasmania has allocated 30 to 35 per cent. There we have the record, not from days past but almost at the present time. The principles which underlie this Bill have been set out quite clearly. They were set out clearly by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who on 9th December stated: 
My Government will continue to co-operate with the States in measures both direct and indirect to expand and improve education services in government schools. Our policy for the independent schools is that, relying on their own efforts and with assistance from governments, they should be able to continue to provide places at a reasonable standard for that proportion of the school population which in the past has sought education in non-government schools. 
And so he went on. The Prime Minister stated a very clear philosophy in that speech. He made it perfectly clear that he was concerned with material investment in education and that he was also concerned with the appropriate structure of education in a pluralist society. He recognised that children at all schools had to receive support from the Government merely because those children went to authorised and recognised schools. What he acknowledged was simply this: A child goes to a school which is recognised as being part of the legitimate education system of Australia. That child has the right to assistance in education from public sources. The Opposition, even in terms of the amendment it has moved, denies that principle. It does not accept that principle and no amount of retreat to the United Kingdom practice can disguise this. I intend to illustrate that factor through Australian administration. 
When one looks at the principles involved in education it is always wise and appropriate to look a little into history to see the wriggling of the Opposition over its understanding and comments on the rights of all children to educational grants. It has wriggled consistently since 1956. Let me go through the history quite quickly. In 1956 authority was given to make interest payments on certain capital grants for non-government schools. The Opposition did not. support it. In 1961 this authorisation was, extended to primary schools. The Opposition did not support it. In 1963 the Opposition made perfectly clear that it would abolish those levels of interest grants that were given. In that year the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made his own situation perfectly clear, and rather tragically clear, because he indicated that his own view was that assistance would go to all schools and all children only if the children of nongovernment schools were allowed to go up the road and utilise the facilities otherwise available in State institutions. There were no fundamental rights recognised here. Children were to be placed in an obviously and clearly secondary position. So the situation went on. In 1965 - in the late 1960s - the Opposition adopted another and more sophisticated policy and it is that policy which the honourable member for Fremantle has sought to defend. It developed the new note of denying basic rights. But it is too clear to see if you deny basic rights so they developed a new policy of saying: 'We are in favour of assistance to all children but, of course, the assistance will be on the basis of needs'. The alienated comfortable who have become the new avant-garde of the Labor Party have adopted a most sophisticated form of supporting the principles of flat denial operative during the 1950s and 1960s because these principles are an effective denial of rights and, unfortunately, it amounts to an effective denial of the rights of children at all schools in Australia. 
If you deny assistance to children at a non-government school, for every child so prevented from attending a nongovernment school you prevent S400 being spent at the secondary level on an appropriate child at the government level. You deny both. At the primary level for every child you deny in the non-government system you deny between $200 and S250 to an equivalent child at the government level. This merely illustrates further the principle that it is good and just economics to adopt those principles which the Government has supported over a number of years. 
All children have rights. The best way to observe those rights as applicable to all students is not to place a false and an unwieldy needs test upon children. If you apply a needs test you do not basically observe rights. Let me make thus comment in passing: This would be almost the only field in social services in Australia in which the Labor Party advocates a needs test. The Labor Party is trying to retreat from needs test in terms of pensions at all levels. Labour Party supporters have been proposing other schemes in terms of superannuation at all levels. They propose all kinds of incredible family proposals at all levels but the only area in which they would make divisions and in which they promote division is in the rights of children at all schools within Australia. 
We can ask ourselves why they should do this. Why should the politics of the new alienated comfortable do it? Once upon a time it was easy to judge what would be the attitude of the Labor Party. There was always something clear and clean about a simple employer/employee clash. There was always something rather clean and simple about the old bourgeois/ proletariat clash; but the conflict favoured by the intelligentsia, those people situated furthest from the productive process, comes from doing what they always intended to do. What do they intend to do? What are the kinds of division which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in particular has promoted in this field? 
I do not think anything is more reprehensible than tha principles of the administration of education of the Leader of the 
Opposition, a prospective Prime Minister he thinks, as stated during the last Senate election campaign. It is worth while recalling one paragraph in a speech he made at that time. He said: 
There are those who would be prepared to see Stale schools decline until  Catholic  schools die; who would deprive the generations of the last third of the 20th century at all schools, State and Catholic, rather than give up the luxury of bigotry characteristic of the last third of the 19th century. I will not have a bar of it; and the Labor Party will not have a bar of it. 
They certainly do not need to be canonised. He went on: 
From now on the debate about education in Australia must be about the needs of pupils, not the creeds of their parents. 
That statement needs close analysis because involved in it is an attempt to create a 3-way division in Australian education. It is not a recognition of the rights of all, but a little soporific thrown out for each interest group in order to cause division. What has the Leader of the Opposition attempted to do? He has attempted to divide government schools against nongovernment schools. He has introduced principles of rich and poor to divide them, and has then attempted to divide nongovernment schools on the basis of religion. Then he has appealed to others concerning the creeds of their parents. There is something to appeal to everyone and something to divide everyone. That is the philosophy of the Leader of the Opposition and of  Senator Murphy,  who has made it far more explicit, but most tragically it is the philosophy which has been expounded here tonight in the words enunciated by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley). 
The Leader of the Opposition repeated his divisive philosophy on this matter again last week-end. He gave a talk in the round house at the University of New South Wales. Once again he introduced these artificial divisions, not the clean employer/ employee clash of former days; not the clean clash that one expected from former days, but the new kind of sophisticated sectarianism promoted by the Labor Party. It needs to be said that for every child who is disadvantaged in the government or non-government system of education the total system is disadvantaged. 
I said earlier that I would not refer to the United Kingdom in examining how  a  schools commission would operate and I do not intend to do so. I intend merely to examine the position in South Australia. The Leader of the Opposition has stated 2 things rather often. One is that he was overcome by the charisma of Premier Trudeau some years ago in saying that Canada would be the exemplar of his own administration. I hesitate to remind him of the unemployment levels appropriate to Canada. At another level he has been overcome it seems, by the charisma of  Mr Dunstan  because he said that in his own administration of education - this is important to bear in mind - 'South Australia has provided on the State level a model of how the needs policy could work on the federal level. In March this year a committee reported to the Minister for Education on the distribution of $250,000 in additional aid for primary schools'. South Australia is said to be the model in this field. In South Australia students at non-government schools received the smallest grants of students at any non-government schools in the Commonwealth. Consequently the system in South Australia has been most effective in culling down . the non-government school system, more so than in any other  Stale  of the Commonwealth. But the Leader of the Opposition would have that as his model for the administration of education in Australia. In a moment I will invite him to deny that. 
The tragedy is that to the extent that one system is disadvantaged, each equivalent child in a government school is disadvantaged at the secondary level $400 and at the primary level between $200 and $250. Not only is the philosophy of the Leader of the Opposition bad, it is also atrocious economics. My aim tonight has been to study the working out of the philosophy of the administration of education as proposed by the Opposition. The way in which the Government has worked out its own system is obvious to all. The rate of increase of total expenditure on education in Australia has been quite high. It has risen from a little below 3 per cent of the gross national product in 1963-64 to over 4i per cent of our gross national product this year - an imputed amount. They are real and substantial rates of increase and they ought to be appreciated as such. 
The honourable member for Fremantle towards the end of his speech delved into the philosophy of education. He was concerned that there ought to be an appropriate philosophy of education. He referred to family homes from which education derived. We know that to say that education is growth, as Kuznets would say, is too simple a statement. It is also concerned about the cultural and intellectual development of students. But we cannot have this cultural and intellectual development unless we also have discipline which goes with that cultural and intellectual development. If the discipline is not there, no amount of money can serve the purpose. The honourable member for Fremantle made that point clear. He might then explain how a child at school, who would be subject to normal discipline, would react were he to take the advice and copy the practice of the honourable member's own Leader - the gentleman whom he hopes will be Prime Minister. Let me remind the House, as the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  did recently, of the fact that a draft resister was advised to disobey a law because the law might be changed next year. Would a student at school refuse to obey a headmaster because he thought that the headmaster would be changed next year? That is exactly the same principle. The Australian people have been invited by the Leader of the honourable member for Fremantle to adopt that principle. 
The challenges that I make to the Opposition, and which I invite the Opposition to answer, are these: Will it affirm that all children should have rights in education - even the children of the honourable member for Hindmarsh? Why, in respect of education, does the Opposition adopt divisive principles which, under a smokescreen, it is attempting to repudiate at all other levels of social service matters? I invite the Opposition to dissent from the proposition to use South Australia as the exemplar for the administration of its education responsibility. I invite honourable members also to indicate why they do these things: why the Leader of the Opposition has adopted these principles. Unless these challenges are accepted, one can only come to the clear conclusion that the amendment moved by the Opposition is merely a strat agem designed to cut down one sector of education and so disadvantage the lot. I have issued 3 challenges to the Opposition and 3 challenges ought to be taken up by the Opposition. 
1 think that the honourable member for Hindmarsh is still upset at the great affection which Tom Dougherty and Edgar Williams still retain for him in their hours of great power. The Opposition's philosophy is clear. Its administration is clear. Its philosophy ought to be appreciated for what it is. It would disadvantage all children at Australian schools. I invite honourable members opposite to challenge the propositions that I have put. 
I am naturally aware of the visit of a German trade union delegation to Australia to discuss forms of housing- finance which have been proposed for a number of years by the ACTU and its leader. I am intrigued that at last this trade union delegation has come to Australia because this form of finance - 'the entry of the ACTU into the field of housing - was first proposed by the present  President  of the ACTU in 1969, I am anxious for the proposal to be born and I would like to view it when it is born. I hope that when the outcome of these deliberations is made known it will be of some assistance to home buyers in Australia. But I would give some advice to the ACTU and its leadership: If they are to develop some home ownership proposals which will be of advantage to the people of Australia they should be very careful not to take any advice preferred by either the Leader of the Opposition or the honourable member for Reid as those gentlemen have both shown themselves to be quite incapable of even understanding proposals in the field of housing which are designed to reduce costs and to reduce interest rates. I merely give one quick example. It will be recollected that when an Act was passed in this House last year which has enabled interest rates on welfare housing, even in their own State of New South Wales, to come down to levels such as Si per cent and 5) per cent they voted against such proposals. Let me make it clear that such benefits are now accruing to the people of New South Wales and Australia in spite of the actions of the Opposition in this field. I hope that the ACTU will not make itself prey to such very misinformed advice. 
The question of whether any body set up by the ACTU would be an appropriate body to receive advances under the Home Builders' Account is a matter more appro priate for the State registrars of building societies to determine. Therein is also included a very important principle on which I hope the ACTU and its fellow Federal Executive member of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  will quickly decide, that is, whether to adopt the principle of appointing central directors with centra] control, such as one sees in the much maligned capitalist system, or whether to adopt in another way the cooperative principle of having both directors and responsibility dispersed. Those are matters for decision by those who want to set up a housing society. I hope that, after a period of 3 years and 2 ACTU elections, it will ultimately be born. 
I have seen a number of reports of a scheme such as that which has been outlined by the right honourable member for Fisher and I must say that from looking at this scheme it is quite clearly an economic and social abomination because it offends against every decent welfare principle appropriate to home ownership and housing that has been operative in Australia for many decades. I merely nominate 2 of the principles against which it offends. It offends against the principle that savings were always to be attracted and to be developed for housing in this country. It makes it perfectly clear that the benefits of such a scheme will accrue least to those people who save most. There will be an active attempt to cause people to dis-save in order to get the maximum benefits. Furthermore, benefits will accrue also to those people who will be able to negotiate the larger mortgages. For example, if the principle in Australian housing has been to assist home ownership for those on modest and low incomes, a person negotiating a $100,000 mortgage under this scheme would receive 10 or II times the amount of assistance compared, with a person on a modest income negotiating a $9,000 or $10,000 mortgage. So it offends against the very basic principles that have motivated the public authorities' attitudes on housing in Australia. 1 can only say that on this very quick analysis this kind- of proposal amounts to nothing more than a profligate rich man's dream and the tragedy is that it is a scheme which has been proposed to attract support from young people. It is a support which on the basis of the published documents is designed to delude and to deceive people on modest and low incomes who require home ownership. 
The greatest tragedy of such a proposal is that it has been made by the Australian Labor Party, the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Reid. I would ask them to do their calculations to see what an abomination they would put upon the Australian people. 
My answer to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition in this House during the last sessional period of Parliament was correct and remains correct. He will appreciate, of course, that I do not comment in any way upon speculation, no matter from what source it is inspired and no matter who develops the speculation. I am a little surprised that the Leader of the Opposition should continue to ask questions concerning a child endowment scheme in view of his proposals for matters, such as child endowment, which are intimately concerned with the Australian population and Australian families. I would ask him to look a little more closely at his own proposals and attitudes towards the Australian population, the people involved in its development and his proposals for immigration, Australian families, the numbers of children born in Australia and the rights of Australian children, old, young and even unborn. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of applicants given approval to supplement their War Service Homes loan with some form of secondary borrowing is not available for each of the last 10 years. The number of approvals for secondary borrowing for each of the last 4 financial years is as follows: 
It is correct that a recent report indicated that many mortgages on homes in Australia were paid off within a period of less than 10 years. The Commonwealth, having been aware of that, has never sought a disadvantage to be wreaked upon those citizens who through significant sacrifice pay off a home, pay off a mortgage or pay off a loan within a period of 10 years Unfortunately, the Commonwealth is aware of a proposal in this field which would have the effect of disadvantaging and penalising all those thousands of Auustralian home owners and prospective home owners who have been or will be able to pay for their homes or properties in a period of less than 10 years. I am referring, of course, to a celebrated so-called 2 per cent interest subsidy scheme payable for the first 10 years of a mortgage. That is a scheme which has been proposed by the Leader of the Opposition and his close affiliate, the honourable member for Reid. The scheme, as has been pointed out already, would significantly disadvantage all of those citizens in Australia who save for a home in that the greatest benefit would go to those people who in fact saved the least. A person who actually decided to dis-save would receive the greatest benefit. It has also been pointed out that the scheme would be so foolish as to give the greatest benefit to a person negotiating a large mortgage compared to a person who negotiates a small mortgage. So that proposal, which is the centre point of a certain housing policy, has now been shown to be a sham, a fraud and a calculated method of deceit. I suggest that those who have opposed it ought now to consider its withdrawal. 
There are a number of publications and a lot of evidence which indicate that up to 30 per cent of the finance which is utilised by Australians for their homes is obtained from noninstitutional sources. The finance is obtained through private arrangements, such as from loans, savings, solicitors' trust accounts, accountants' trust accounts, and so on. We say therefore - and we have always said it - that any total housing policy ought not deliberately to exclude that 30 per cent of the money which is utilised by Australians in obtaining their own homes. 
Unfortunately, I do know of the famous 2 per cent policy which has been proposed and which is designed deliberately to exclude all of these people from obtaining any benefit. It is the famous 2 per cent subsidy policy under which in the first 10 years of a loan a subsidy will be paid to institutional lenders to reduce by 2 per cent the rate of interest paid on loans. This policy will deliberately exclude all of those sources of finance which are available annually to thousands of Australians seeking their own homes. 
It has been pointed out previously that there were 3 grave errors with respect to the policy which has been so often proposed by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Reid. I now add a fourth, and it is the effect of the policy on the 30 per cent of the finance, coming from non-institutional sources, which is available for homes. I merely say that that policy is now obviously a monstrous mess and I would suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that he ought at least to make his position clear and recant on it. 
It had not been my intention to speak in this debate until I heard some comments made by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and some of the comments of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  earlier. It is quite clear that both these honourable gentlemen had very much in mind that there is to be an election in one of the States of the Commonwealth next month, and they made in their own way a contribution to this Bill related to the economic position within that State. Since the economic position within that State - the State is Queensland - is covered to a certain extent by both the Bills we are debating, I would say something relevant both to the Bills and to the remarks of these 2 honourable gentlemen. 
These Bills are designed to do 2 things. They are designed to increase the extent of a programme of capital assistance to the 
States and they are designed also to increase out of time measures of revenue assistance to the States. They are designed to do so in a manner that has not previously been countenanced or experienced in Commonwealth-State financial affairs. In fact the increase in assistance at both levels over the past year has provided a greater measure of real assistance and increased assistance than has ever previously been experienced in the States. All the Premiers who departed from the Premiers Conference which thrashed out the details of these Bills were delighted with what had been done. They were generous in their praise for what the Commonwealth had done on this occasion. 
But let me return to the position of Queensland, having in mind the State elections there, as no doubt the honourable gentlemen who preceded me had. If Queensland at the present time is going through an economic boom such as it has never previously experienced, it has not been with the assistance but in fact has been in spite of the efforts of the Opposition both here and in that State. When one realises that the same gentlemen who in this place weep about unemployment have been in the forefront of promoting political strikes in that State one has to doubt their sincerity. 
I will deal with the honourable member for Dawson in a  moment.  He will not escape some gentle attention either. It will be recollected that those who cry about unemployment were responsible for literally thousands of man days being lost in Queensland during sporting tours last year, and it was only, for example, through the courage- 
The answer to the honourble member's question is as follows: 
(a) The total number of applicants granted assistance under the War Services Homes Scheme since its inception to 29th February 1972 is 324,793. 
The total repayment comprising principal and interest to 29th February 1972,  is 
$1,041,017,138. 
Financial records have not been maintained on a basis that would enable accurate details to be provided of the cost of administering the scheme . since its inception. 
The total amounts payable over the maximum term allowable in respect of previous maximum loans carrying interest at the various prescribed rates since the inception of the War Service Homes Scheme are as follows: 
I must thank the honourable member for Brisbane for asking me this question. The States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act was designed to operate for 5 years. I am not certain of the amount to be allocated to Queensland during that period of 5 years but I presume his figure of about $3. 3m would be substantially correct. It is true that the Queensland Government was slow to construct its first dwellings under this programme but in recent months - over the last 6 months or so - it has speeded up construction considerably. That construction will be proceeded with and I am quite certain that the Queensland Government will expend the appropriation which has been allocated to it for this 5-year period. In the last part of his question the honourable member referred to 'the disgraceful record' of the Queensland Government. I think he will appreciate that that disgraceful record will be under examination at the State election when that Government will have, in fact, a magnificent victory. 
There was a report that the home savings grants scheme had not been an acceptable scheme to young home seekers. This statement was contained in a speech reportedly made by the  Chairman  of the New South Wales Housing Commission. The  Chairman  happens to be incorrect for utilisation of that scheme has increased. Tn a few weeks time the 250,000th grant will be paid under that scheme. The rate of usage of the scheme has increased. 
A substitute for the home savings grants scheme has been suggested. The substitute is the famous 2 per cent interest subsidy scheme proposed by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Reid. We know now that the substitute scheme has attached to it 4 severe and very great penalties. It is a penalty against those people who save, those people who try to pay off their homes early, those people who will not be forced into institutions which the Australian Labor Party would desire to force them into and those people on middle and low incomes. It has been suggested that the substitute scheme would be buried but I suggest that in the meantime it will not be allowed to be buried without a fanfare from this side of the House. 
 I was interested to hear what the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  had to say. If there is any substance in any of the allegations which he has made, he can be assured that an opportunity will be taken to reply to them. It also is clear that a number of allegations have been made in another place tonight about me. An appropriate opportunity will be taken to look closely at what the honourable member has said, if that is necessary, and to look closely at what has been said, if necessary, in another place and, at the appropriate time, an opportunity will be taken to deal with those remarks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 The raising of the matter of public importance this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is particularly sordid. One does not need to be a weather man to know which way the wind is blowing. Acting merely as a politician, the Leader of the Opposition, knowing that concern about poverty has been expressed by a number of churchmen in Sydney, decided to cash in on the circumstances at his command whatever wind that concern might generate. In the time that is available to me I want to make one or two comments that are appropriate. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who regards himself as the shadow Minister for Social Services and Health, tried to denigrate Australia's performance in social services compared with that of the rest of the world. The fact is, no matter at what time it is examined, that over a period Australia's measurable level of poverty has been significantly less than that in almost any other comparable country. 
Unlike countries that have Labor governments - particularly the former British Labour government, from whom the Australian Labor Party takes so many of its principles - the proportion of households in Australia on the poverty level has not increased. That is a very important distinction. As the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  indicated some time ago, the islands of poverty have become smaller but we acknowledge that the islands are there. The honourable member for Oxley spoke at some length about those who are on very low wages and who therefore are closer to a poverty level than are men on average wages or men on above average wages. I will make a charge concerning this which it will be impossible to refute: Nobody has beenless concerned with the men on the minimum wage than the honourable member's colleague on the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party, namely, the leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke.  Continually from 1969 the minimum wage worker has been deliberately sacrificed by Federal Executive members. 
I want to make one or two quotes which are friendly but pertinent. In 1970, in presenting the case to the Arbitration Commission, the advocate chosen by  Mr 
Hawke to represent the workers of Australia was severely castigated by the presiding judge who said: 
We riad it hard to see how future benches can continue to give him special treatment in the absence of more information such as the actual living standard*, of people on or near the minimum wage, how many there are, how many would be affected by any future claim and what effect the introduction of minimum wage has had generally in industry. 
The honourable member's fellow Federal Executive members ignored the minimum wage worker. In October 1971  -  the month may not be quite correct - they were castigated for not having prepared at that stage any data concerning an appropriate submission to the Arbitration Commission for the minimum wage worker. So that attitude persisted. Honourable members will recollect that during the time that data concerning the minimum wage worker should have been presented his fellow Federal Executive member was travelling overseas while Australia was subjected to political strikes such as the Springbok strike. 
Now we come to 1972. This matter of public importance was raised by people who say that they are concerned about poverty and about the minimum wage workers. They dwelt on this subject. One approprite paragraph from the judgment of the Commission needs repeating. The presiding judge.  Mr Justice  Moore, said: 
As to the minimum wage in 1970 the Commission was obviously in difficulty in assessing an appropriate amount as it had little information before it of the problems of the low wage earner, the average cos* of living or the numbers involved. 
Consistently from 1969, when the philosophy of the ACTU as presented by its leadership has been more closely associated with the philosophy on industrial matters presented by the Opposition, the minimum wage worker in Australia has deliberately been sacrificed by those who seek to represent him. This charge cannot be refuted. The low wage earner immediately became cannon fodder in some political game. I have just one or two other comments to make. It is a favourite tactic of the Leader of the Opposition to conduct his politics after the overseas tour of acupuncture. He thinks that by putting a pin in a vital spot he can deaden the nerves to those parts which need to be sensitised. It is my task this afternoon to sensitise one or two areas. How does one show a concern for poverty when one has a policy of political strikes? How is it done? How does one redistribute income and wealth and resources if there is no production? There is still a basic equation in an economy and the basic equation is that there are no resources to redistribute if nothing is produced. No country which has made itself subject to political strikes has ever had a decent attack on poverty. 
Of course, the Leader of the Opposition has one or two things to answer for today. We remember very well the strikes which were promoted over the Budget before last. This was his own economic moratorium. That nerve needed to be sensitised. The nerve concerning the position of the low wage earner, who has been sacrificed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions for 3 years and who has been sacrificed by the political representatives associated with the Party opposite for 2 years, needs to be sensitised in order to be clarified. Then for one or two moments we heard concern for the aged. We know that more always needs to be done for the aged who need assistance, but we know also that the increase in the pension in real terms has been greater proportionately and absolutely over the past 13 or 14 months than ever before in Australia's history. But there is no acknowledgement of this. Then, and this is the strangest of all, we heard from honourable members opposite a concern for the young or, in the words of the Leader of the Opposition, some concern about infancy. I hesitate to mention it, but in so many ways the suggestion was that the problems concerning the young should be dealt with by seeing that they are not there. Eliminate the problem; do not attack it. That is not the Government's attitude and it will never be its attitude. 
Finally, the Leader of the Opposition dealt for one or two moments with Canada. Trudeau still exerts that strange influence on the Leader of the Opposition. This Government would never emulate Canada in its attitude of unemployment, destitution and to variable and wholly unacceptable living standards, but the Leader of the Opposition retains the proposition that Canada for him is the exemplar. When will we in this place come across an attitude that does not seek continually to rubbish Australia? As the Minister for Social Services indicated earlier every attempt is made to rubbish Australia and its performance. I can say only that knowing that the Leader of the Opposition's political approach is one of acupuncture, we will not let him get away with it, no matter where he puts the pin. The Leader of the Opposition has a rather strange, wholly mystical but understandable Chinese treatment for the social welfare policies of this nation. 
Lending by banks, in particular savings banks, for housing is at a record level, both for the last financial year and for this calendar year. The total lending for housing is well in excess of $550m a year. The Government hopes that this trend will continue for the simple reason that bank lending has always been a very traditional and important source of lending to those people who require homes of their own. It is part of the Government's policy that the nature of the traditional banking system be retained. The Government has therefore felt some trepidation over a proposal which would force the Commonwealth Bank to lend money for housing at rates of a little over 3 per cent. This proposal would, if adopted, have 2 clear and very obvious repercussions immediately. It would immediately debar more than 11,000 young couples each year from obtaining their loans for housing from the Commonwealth Bank. Those people who have traditionally obtained their funds from this source would be debarred. The second result would be far more serious. The proposal would result in the immediate destruction of all the non-Commonwealth Savings Banks systems of making loans for housing and it would be a much more effective method of destroying the banking system than was ever contemplated under the proposal to nationalise banking. Let me say finally that this proposal is part of the banking proposals of the Australian Labor Party insofar as they relate to housing, and these are contained in section 9 and section 12 of that Party's platform. 
For the information of honourable members I present the texts of the following international treaties: Convention No. 2, concerning unemployment, and Convention No. 109, concerning wages, hours of work on board ship and manning (revised 1958) adopted by the International Labour Conference at its first and forty-first sessions in 1919 and 1958 respectively. The relevant laws and practices are in conformity with both Conventions. Subject to the approval of the Federal Executive Council, the Government intends to lodge instruments of ratification in respect of both these Conventions with the Director-General of the International Labour Office as soon as possible. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the International Labour Conference, fifty-third sesion, 1969. 
 Mr Speaker,  as was indicated io this House some few weeks ago- 

 Mr Foster - I rise to order. I asked my question of the Prime Minister. I ask members who are interjecting not to get too anxious.  Mr Speaker  is in charge of the House, not you babblers of the brook. 
As was indicated in this House some few weeks ago, this matter has been under consideration. The undertaking given by the Prime Minister in the last session of 1971 has received attention. Matters of detail are continuing to receive attention, and when it is appropriate to make an announcement, it will be made. Perhaps at that stage even the honourable member for Sturt might understand it. 
In answer to this unexpected question, it should be made quite clear that co-operation in the field of housing between the Commonwealth and the States has remained a cornerstone of Australian housing policy. It should remain the cornerstone of Australian housing policy if anything meaningful is to be done to house the Australian people and to maintain the standards to which they have been accustomed. It is also clear that co-operation between the States in this field is mirrored by the co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States in the whole field of financial policy. Therefore, it was with some concern that one heard the announcement, to which the honourable member for Wentworth has referred, which stated: 
A Federal Labor government might have to support guerrilla tactics to safeguard its regional development plan. Under a Labor government, a National Planning Task Force would assist regions to develop. 
I like that word 'assist' under those circumstances. The announcement continued: 
It would have to act as a guerrilla force within the region if they met resistance from other States. 
That statement was transmitted nationally as coming from the Opposition spokesman on housing and urban affairs on 30th April this year. The House can be assured that this Government will not use a threat of guerrilla force to impose its own programmes within the States. 
That statement and the philosophy enunciated in that statement are clearly un-Australian. It would deny the traditional right of Australians to choose their own home sites and it would deny the personal rights of Australians which they have always exerted in these areas. Finally, that statement was reported on 30th April on the Australian Broadcasting Commission national news as having been made by the Labor spokesman on housing and urban affairs. It has never been denied. 
In the answer to the question to which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  referred I read a quote of a speech which was reported to have been delivered by the honourable member for Reid at the University of Sydney on either 28th or 29th April. That speech was reported on the national Australian Broadcasting Commission network at, I think, 7.45 a.m. on 30th April. The quote was from the speech reported on the ABC national network. That quote has never been disputed. That quote has never been denied. As far as I know- 

 Mi Foster - I take a point of order. Recently in this House the Minister took strong objection when something was said about newspaper reports in which his name was involved. Is he making a personal explanation? He has a lot of explaining to do if he is. 
My only intention has been- 
Standing order 76 refers to imputations of improper motives. I never intended to nor did I in fact impute improper motives. My intention was in fact to expose the motives. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)- As a further persona] explanation, I point out that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  misrepresented me when he said that I made these utterances in a speech at Sydney University. I would be prepared, if I am given the time, to go to my office and obtain copies of the speeches I have made at Sydney University, and to table them in this House. It so happens that each time I present papers or address gatherings at universities my speeches are prepared and they are distributed to the Press before I deliver them. I will therefore go up to my office, with your permission, get the document and table it. The Minister says the speech was made on 29th April? 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
-(6). I am advised that while seeking to obtain from a registrant documentary evidence of his birth which was relevant to his national service liability, an officer of the Department of Labour and National Service was told by the registrant's wife that it had already been provided to the Housing Department. The wife, a joint applicant with the registrant for a Home Savings Grant, suggested that the document might more conveniently be sighted there. It was then arranged for the information sought to be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No credit union has as yet made formal application for approval. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eighteen units. 
Zillmere, 13th November 1971; Holland Park, 13th December 1971; Mount Isa, 20th December 1971; Hawthorne, 7th January 1972. 
Contracts are current for a further number of units and it is expected that of these 44 will become available for tenancy prior to 30th June 1972. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I explained in an answer to the honourable member on 11th November 1971, the Tentative 
Uniform Home Building Code published by my Department was made available to the Interstate Standing Committee on Uniform Building Regulations late in 1970. I am advised that the Australian Model Uniform Building Code prepared by the Interstate Standing Committee has been in the hands of the relevant State authorities since October 1971. As building regulations are a State responsibility it is now up to each State to decide whether to adopt the code, with or without amendment. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Annual Conference of State Housing Ministers was held in Hobart on 7th April 1972. The Commonwealth Minister was invited to attend to hear at first hand the views of the States. 
Honourable D. F. Clark, E.D., M.H.A.- Minister for Housing Industrial Development and Sea Fisheries - Tasmania. (Chairman) Honourable S. T. Stephens, M.L.A. - Minister for Housing and Minister for Co-operative Societies - New South Wales. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Act provides for an amount of $25m to be made available during the period of five years from 1969-70 to 1973-74, distributed amongst the States in the following amounts: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1971 in accordance with the proposals announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the Budget Speech. The home savings grant scheme aims at encouraging young people to save over a period of years for a home of their own when they marry by the offer of a tax-free grant to supplement their savings. Since the scheme began in 1964, some 253,000 grants totalling about $110m have been paid to assist young couples, and widowed or divorced persons with dependent children, to own and establish their homes. The amendments now proposed will permit more young people to qualify for grants, and will make larger grants available to assist in the acquisition of their homes. Notes explaining the purpose of each clause and sub-clause of the amending Bill will be distributed to honourable members. 
The Bill makes the following changes: Firstly, the maximum value of a home which may attract a grant is being raised from $17,500 to $22,500. Secondly, the maximum grant is being raised from $500 on acceptable savings of $1,500 or more to $750 on acceptable savings of $2,250 or more. Thirdly, the limit on the amount of savings made in any one saving year that may qualify for a grant is being increased from $600 to $900; and fourthly, the conditions relating to the approval of credit unions are being eased. 
The changes in relation to value limit, maximum grant and annual savings are being made in recognition of changed conditions since their present levels were established. The existing limit of $17,500 on the value of a home which may attract a grant has been in force since 27th October 1969. Since then the average value of homes has risen with increases in construction costs and in the cost of developed residential land. Prices also rise with progressively improving standards of new housing over the years. To take account of these changes, clause 4 of the Bill increases the value limit by $5,000 to $22,500. 
The proposed increase in the maximum grant from $500 to $750 is provided for in clause 5 of the Bill. This recognises the need for young people to have greater financial resources for home purchase as housing prices rise. By offering a higher grant as a reward for higher levels of saving the Government maintains the incentive to save for home ownership. The grant payable up to the new maximum of $750 will continue to be $1 for every $3 saved in acceptable forms. Because one of the aims of the scheme is to encourage young people to save regularly over a period of at least 3 years, there is a limit on the amount of savings in any one year which may be counted in determining the amount of grant payable. In the interests of applicants the limit is set at a figure rather higher than the amount that would need to be saved in equal annual instalments over 3 years to obtain the maximum grant. The present annual saving limit is $600 whilst the equal annual amount needed to attract a maximum grant is $500. It is proposed to retain this flexibility by increasing the annual savings limit to $900 in conjunction with the proposed increase to $750 in the annual savings rate which, over 3 years, would attract the maximum grant. The amendments in relation to the maximum value of a home, the maximum grant and the annual savings limit will apply to people who contract to buy or build, or as ownerbuilders commence building their homes on or after 16th August 1972, the day following the Budget announcement. 
Credit unions are playing an increasingly important part in helping young people to obtain their own homes. For this reason the conditions relating to the approval of credit unions for the purposes of the Act will be eased. A credit union needs to be approved so that savings with it by its members can become acceptable savings under the Act, The present conditions for approval of a credit union require that not less than 20 per cent of its annual lending is, and continues to be, in housing loans at a rate of interest not exceeding a prescribed rate; 15 per cent of its annual lending must be in housing loans of at least $5,000 for a minimum period of 12 years; and, it must lend no less than $50,000 in housing loans annually. The Bill provides that only one of these requirements will remain. Provided a credit union can show that not less than 20 per cent of the total amount lent to its members in its most recently completed financial year has been in the form of housing loans and provided it undertakes to maintain this proportion in each subsequent financial year, it will be able to become approved for purposes of the Homes Savings Grant Act. A housing loan will continue to be defined as one made for the purchase of residential land, for the purchase or construction of a dwelling and for the payment of associated expenses. The prescribed interest rate provision will no longer apply. 
The principal Act will continue to provide that approval of a credit union is deemed to have taken effect on and from the first day of the credit union financial year in respect of which the approval is granted. Savings held with an approved credit union by members who have contracted to buy or build their homes, or commenced to build them as ownerbuilders, on or after the date from which approval is deemed to have effect, will then be acceptable for the purposes of the home savings grant scheme. Savings held by credit union members at savings dates during the 2 financial years immediately before the financial year for which the approval is granted also will be acceptable. The amendments will, I am sure, be welcomed by many thousands of young people who are acquiring their first matrimonial homes or who are saving for that purpose. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to a report prepared for the Queensland Government by members of the James Cook University of North Queensland on the effects of cyclone Althea. 
The recommendations contained in the report cover a variety of matters, including necessary amendments to building by.-laws. 
The report is very comprehensive and is  now  being studied by officers of my Department. Full consideration will be given to the recommendations contained in the report in the design and construction of War Service homes in cycloneprone areas. 
Commonwealth Sanctions Committee  (Question No. 6050)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
On what dates has the Commonwealth Sanctions Committee met since 24th September 1969 (Hansard, 7th May 1970, page 1878)? 
Who has represented Australia at the meetings? 
This Budget- any Budget - has to attempt to do several things. These may be divided into 3 categories. Any Budget has to be formulated having regard to its impact effect on the economy - that is, the overall direction which it is designed to give to an economy - being either an expansionary Budget or a retractionary Budget. Correlated with that are certain assessments concerning the money supply that must accompany the working out of a Budget over a year. In the second place, a Budget has to have special regard to the redistributive effects of the resources for which it is responsible. That is the area which we have come to know over the years as the area of direct and indirect social services involved in a Budget. But underlying all these factors, and more important than any of them, has to be the attitude of a Budget and of financial measures towards the people of a nation in their request for and their right to full employment. On the 3 aspects on which this Budget deserves to be considered, it deserves to be supported. It will be supported in this chamber later today. 
Before I examine those points it is worth recollecting the last one - the obligation which a government and a Budget have to full employment. Let me quote from that very famous document of 27 years ago, the White Paper on Full Employment, lt said in paragraph 5: 
The policy outlined in this paper is that governments should accept the responsibility for stimulating spending on goods and services to the extent necessary to sustain full employment. 
That was the philosophy of that very famous paper in 1945; it remains the philosophy of this Government: it remains the philosophy of this Budget. 
Let me refer to the impact of the Budget. In what directions does it move the economy? Without entering into a plethora of details 1 will merely recount 2, because they are appropriate. In Statement No. 7 attached to the Budget Speech, and in the table which indicates the receipts and the outlay of the Commonwealth Budget in national accounts form. it is perfectly clear that the deficit to be contrived in this Budget as a proportion ot the total outlay of the Budget shows a substantial increase over the deficit over the previous year. Tn the previous year that deficit represented 2 per cent of the total outlay as part of the Budget; this year that deficit has been increased to 6 per cent as part of the total outlay. So in that respect it is quite clear that the Budget is an expansionary one. But rather more precisely, Statement No. 7 on page 61 of the Budget Papers shows the increases on the previous year with respect to both expenditures and receipts in the Budget. One will see that in 1971-72 the adjusted increase in expenditures was 14 per cent, the adjusted increase in receipts was 13 per cent, making a ratio of nearly one to one. In this year the adjusted increase in expenditures is in the nature of 12.6 per cent and the adjusted increase in rates is in the nature of 8 per cent - a 150 per cent increase in the ratio of each to the other compared with the previous year. That statement probably exemplifies more precisely than any other the philosophy of the Budget, as it is appropriate that it should so do. 
If one turns to the second requirement of the Budget - its attitudes in the area of social services - one will see that 2 features have been stated very precisely by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  The increases in pensions and the concern with the means test and with social welfare are greater increases obsolutely and proportionately than have ever been sustained in a previous Budget. When it is borne in mind that a number of these increases are the fourth over a period of 18 months one realises that that is a situation which is unique also in its own right. These increases have been repeated in the area of repatriation. There are also very great indirect social service benefits to be sustained by the Australian people in respect of the changed taxation rates appropriate to this Budget. 
The third point about the Budget is its concern with full employment. This needs to be examined because a whole philosophy of attitude is involved here. The Government, in its attitudes on full employment, has a record over more than 20 years which is probably unequalled in the world. People in Australia should be grateful that the targets that were set and aimed for by leading members of the Labor Party during its last years of administration have been exceeded consistently by this Budget. They should be grateful, for example, that  Mr Haylen's  target for unemployment has been rejected by governments on this side for more than 20 years. 
Four per cent or 5 per cent. One ought to remember also that a former very close adviser to the Labor Party on unemployment, Professor Arndt - he seceded from it after the kowtow in Peking in 1971  -  made it clear in 1963 that a registration of 80,000 people for employment was to be judged as an appropriately full employment situation. Given the size of the work force today, that target has been exceeded. The third aspect of the concern with full employment should be appreciated and realised. Wherever there is a Labor administration in Australia today in the States one can say that there is high continuing unem ployment. If one were to put it in economic terms, one could find a 100 per cent correlation between the existence of a Labor government and unemployment. One could go a little further and state with a 100 per cent degree of confidence that a Labor administration means high unemployment. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the record of Labor administrations concerning levels of unemployment in Australia. The very firm principle can be stated that wherever there are Labor administrations in Australia there are high levels of unemployment, in fact the highest in the nation. This is exemplified not only by statistical data but also by the perceptible migration of the work force out of some Labor States because of that fact. That reflects clearly the attitude of Labor administrations in this area. 
The third aspect of unemployment to which I want to refer relates to 2 analyses, one of which has been made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The honourable member tried to indicate on some very imprecise data that because the work force will grow over the coming year by about 2 per cent or a little less, we can look forward therefore to a very great increase in unemployment in 1973. Other Labor authorities have said that we can look forward to anything from 150,000 to 200,000 men being registered for work next year. That very statement is based on incorrect information but, once made, it entices the solution which Labor poses for the Australian economy. In fact, the statement is designed to cause the very event which Labor says it does not want to occur; and the Opposition knows this. In another way the solution which is proposed is interesting to examine. The Australian work force grows by something in excess of 2 per cent a year. A suggested solution to the problems of the growth of the Australian economy is that the Australian work force and the Australian people ought to grow by 1 per cent a year. That proposition has been made, along with others, by for example, the shadow Minister for Cultural or Urban Affairs; I do not know what positions he fills at various times. In other words, the solutions to growth in the Australian economy are to be sought by deliberately embracing prospects of stagnation. The effects of that, I am sure, will be realised by the Australian people. 
To turn to a further point, since we are speaking about the effects of the 1945 White Paper on full employment, its effects on the philosophy of development and of economic growth on this country, and revaluation in terms of its effect on employment in Australia, we could well ask why it has been proposed at this stage that revaluation ought to occur. Has an analysis been made of the circumstances under which it occurs? What is a suggestion such as that designed to produce at this time, not only in terms of the revaluation but in the uncertainty of the expectations which it must engender? it is not the first time that tragically incorrect solution has been proposed for an economy. In 1925 when Britain went back onto the gold standard the timing was incorrect. There was an incorrect reading for Britain's position vis-a-vis her principal competitors in the world. Persistent levels of unemployment had been sustained in that nation. There was an effective upward valuation of the British currency and, largely as a result of that decision, the British economy deteriorated during the late 1920s and unemployment rose. The position continued to deteriorate until intercepted by the depression years. 
Inadequate timing can be disastrous. It is in the same respect that the Leader of the Opposition has not calculated at the present time what his proposition means for this nation. But the very suggestion and the expectations which it arouses are like asking the Australian people not only to contemplate a guillotine constructed by the Leader of the Opposition but also to take pleasure in the coming months in the thought that he may drop it. I do not believe the people of Australia could be party to that. Expectations in an area of currency changes can be extremely dangerous. 
I mention one other. The competitive devaluations which occurred throughout the world during the 1930s engendered their own expectations, engendered unemployment to a level higher than it would otherwise have been and were responsible, as we all know, for exporting unemployment from one nation to another. Surely a person who aspires to be a Prime Minister must take account of these effects or, if he has advisers who for one reason or other want him to do these things, he might discount their views upon occasions. We can ask one other question - a very appropriate and very pertinent question - concerning this matter. Why did he do it? The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  indicated the contradiction in what the Leader of the Opposition had to say concerning the Australian dollar. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
I think the Australian dollar is undervalued but as long as that remains it will promote inflation in Australia. 
Since when has he been concerned about inflation? Later he said: 
But you ask me. I am convinced that the Australian dollar ought to be appreciating in value. 
Then he went on to a tariff argument. He can create uncertainty concerning the national currency. We ask why he has done it. To whose advantage is it that the Leader of the Opposition should advance this proposition? Who would benefit by it? What sources in business enterprise or elsewhere would benefit from the proposition? We know that when the German Deutschemark was under some expectations in 1969 there was an argument as to the extent to which it would be revalued - 2 per cent, 4 per cent, 5 per cent. Do a calculation, firstly, of the direct effects on a number of exporting industries as a result of such a measure. They are multitudinous. Then look at the indirect effects on those centres of population whose activities are related to the vitality of export industries and of supporting industries. The effects of revaluation improperly considered at the wrong time can spread very quickly through an economy. Anyone would know that. But this is the proposition that has been made. 
I ask a further question, the most important one that I ask. I do not proffer the proposition: Is a matter of Danegeld in reverse involved? That is for others to decide. I cannot answer that question. But when the Leader of the Opposition speculates concerning the Australian dollar note the answer to a question on a certain television programme last night when the same gentleman was asked under what circumstances he would think that he ought not disclose the whole truth on matters, and quite correctly he indicated that he would not tell the truth under certain circumstances if he were the Prime Minister.  His  answer to the question was: 
Again, if, for instance, you learnt the Japanese were going to revalue, appreciate their currency, next Wednesday you couldn't reveal that. 
That is a very firm stance with respect to the Japanese yen, but contrast it with the expectations aroused with respect to the Australian dollar just days before. It is so very important. Why the distinction? The attitude about the Japanese currency was correct. Why was such an attitude not adopted with respect to the Australian national currency? How many men in Australia are employed directly with the Japanese yen compared with men employed directly with the Australian dollar? These are questions that deserve to be answered because it is pertinent that they be answered. Let it not be thought that a proposition such as this is made without authority. There are those on the back bench of the Opposition who would override the authority of the Leader of the Opposition. He does not concede that. From the first day he became Leader of the Opposition he declared that the authority became his. He overrode his Federal Conference; he changed his Federal Executive. He changed their structure. His authority is almost complete. The fact is that 2 years ago in another speech in Brisbane the Leader of the Opposition had this to say: 
The fact is that anything I say on any matter is likely to be field to represent the Party view. 
They are the words from his own mouth; they are his own words. So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I put this proposition: For reasons of party politics there are many different attitudes that could be taken in this nation. For reasons of party politics there are legitimately different points of view. Do those points of view extend to creating expectations of uncertainty concerning a national currency? That is something which ought to extend beyond parties because it involves at a very basic level, at the basis of the existence of their domestic activity, many hundreds of thousands of Australians. The ultimate question which has been asked and which needs to be asked again is: Why did the Leader of the Opposition do it? What advantages were there in doing it? Who would be advantaged? But most significantly, why the contrast between the attitude concerning the Austraiian dollar and what he proposed concerning knowledge of an expectation of change in an overseas currency? Many Australian citizens would like to know the answers to those questions. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jacobi)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim annual report of the Director of War Service Homes for the year ended 30th June 1972. When the final report is available, I shall present it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965- 1966, I present the Eighth Annual Report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969, I present the annual statement on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim statement on the operations of the home savings grant scheme for the year ended 30th June 1972. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  has quite rightly drawn attention to a number of aspects of housing policy which it is our duty to examine very closely. But before I do so 1 would like to dwell for a few moments on one or two points that he made because they are of the utmost significance. The most significant point to which reference has been made this afternoon is the continued charge, repeated ad nauseam, that this scheme is a bribe. That charge has been made often this afternoon and the allegation has been attributed to members of the Opposition. The fact that they have made this charge has not been denied. One needs to examine what is involved in the charge that the scheme is a bribe. A bribe itself is sufficiently repugnant but there is nothing more repugnant than those who take the bribe. They are the ones who are guilty.. They are the ones whose character is, in a sense, impugned. It is for that reason that over the years the proposition of Danegeld has been held in such poor repute. 
But what has the Opposition said? If this scheme is a bribe 250,000 young Australian couples who have received over $100m in grants under this scheme are a party to and are willing partners in the bribe. That is a very poor reflection upon hundreds of thousands of young couples who today occupy their own homes with the assistance of this scheme. Of course, the other words of opprobrium that have been used is that the scheme is a gimmick. Although that is less offensive it is worth examining the natures of the minds that make those charges against a substantia] proportion of young Australians. It shows the great good sense of young Australians that they have not believed the rubbish that has been said of them. 
I wish to make one or two comments in detail about the remarks made this afternoon by members of the Opposition. Firstly, let me turn to the remarks made by the shadow Minister for Urban Affairs, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I never know whether he has that designation or that of shadow Minister for Housing. He went over the whole ambit, the whole wide range of housing affairs when criticising the Government. We heard several gems drop from his lips. Let me repeat one. He said that this Government has not tried to reduce interest rates. That is worth examining. Let me remind him, as he deserves to be reminded, that last year in this House there was passed a Commonwealth-State housing Bill which provided welfare housing for those who were in greatest need. That Bill was designed to reduce costs of housing for those who acquire or rent homes through State housing commissions or housing trusts. 
 I was just coming to that but I thank the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for his interjection. The Bill also applied to those who sought money through the cooperative building societies. The fact is that that legislation has resulted in the greatest drop in interest rates ever experienced in Australia's history in welfare housing. In some States the interest rate on welfare housing has dropped by up to 1.75 per cent, representing a payment of nearly $3 a week less for every week of the mortgage, for 25 or 30 years, than would otherwise have been the case. Those declines in interest rates - which are the greatest cost in housing - have occurred in every State of the Commonwealth. Let it be remembered that the very Bill which made that possible was opposed on behalf of the Australian Labor Party by the honourable gentleman who leads in debates for the Opposition on housing matters. That assistance in welfare housing has been introduced despite the opposition from the Australian Labor Party. I can understand, therefore, the reluctance of the honourable member for Reid when dealing with these matters to mention in detail the areas of welfare housing. The Opposition has such a frightful record in that field that it flees from it whenever that subject is mentioned, and so it should. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  gave us the benefit of his wisdom which has come from many years of practical experience in the field of housing.  His  statement that he considers there should be more advertising of what is done by the Commonwealth Government in this field is most appropriate and will be examined to see what can be done about it. There are a number of other fields- 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  could never raise his voice even in thelast parliament of which he was a member but I thought his voice might have broken during the 3 years when he was out of the Parliament. The Opposition makes the point, which is worth recording, that in this area no limit should be placed on the value of a home. In other words, if a person is building a castle worth $100,000 or $200,000 the grant should apply equally to him as it does to a person who is building a much more humble residence. It is appropriate, and these are the words of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who has on some occasions described himself as the shadow Minister for housing- 
That is right. There is intense competition in this area. His remarks are interesting because in the whole field of social policy proposed by the Australian Labor Party almost the only area in which it would impose limits in respect of welfare and needs is in some aspects of education - not even in housing. One can well ask what kind of social motivation moves the Australian Labor Party to confine its activities only to such a small area of legislation. But let me pass again to housing. 
There was a misunderstanding concerning the valuation of properties when this subject was mentioned by the honourable member for Hughes. If there was a doubt as to the valuation of a property officers of the Department of Housing would examine the property. If there was an appeal against or dissatisfaction with the valuation officers from the Commonwealth Taxation Branch would be requested to check on the valuation. That is done because we are dealing here with another Commonwealth instrumentality. The Government has decided that this is the correct approach and that it is appropriate that it should be done in this way. 
Other points were mentioned by other speakers. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  wanted to know why Commonwealth bonds were not appropriate as sources of savings for the purposes of the homes savings grants. Commonwealth bonds are not judged to be appropriate source of savings for this purpose for a number of reasons. One reason is that they do not meet the general criteria laid down for cases in respect of which housing grants are appropriate. For example, it is not too easy to withdraw savings at short notice from Commonwealth bonds. It is not accepted that Commonwealth bonds themselves provide the principal source of loans for housing. A judgment has to be made in this area as it has to be made in other areas. 
There is one matter to which I would invite further attention. This was the. third of 3 points mentioned by the honourable member for Corio. It concerned a person who had constructed and lived in a room which was subsequently demolished, and because it was on a certain site it was judged to have been a prior dwelling place and therefore the ultimate place of residence of the person. This prevented him from being able to obtain a housing grant. If the honourable member brings that case to my attention I will look at it. If they are, the details, I can assure him that the case will receive sympathetic consideration, as it deserves to. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has indicated an interest in this field over a number of years. He has retained his interest in this field and he knows what value the housing grant has been. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  quite rightly pointed out a number of contradictions in the contribution by the honourable member for Reid ki his leading address this afternoon. He made it quite clear that there was a contradiction in terms of the growth criteria that the honourable member for Reid posited for Australian cities. Yet to solve housing problems the honourable member for Reid has proposed policies which would solve the problems of increasing costs by embracing a real degree of stagnation. 
The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  mentioned a number of points concerning which I think he has some misunderstanding. He was under the impression that the time of lodgement for a grant under this Act could not extend more than 12 months beyond the date of signing a contract or the date of beginning the construction of a home. An amount of discretion is available in this area, and if the honourable member has knowledge of cases in which that discretion can be rightfully used I ask him to bring them to my attention. He was also under the impression that during the time it took to process an application for  a  grant it would be necessary to dissipate savings in the purchase of a home and that therefore the grant which was to be obtained could not in reality assist as part of the deposit or increase the amount of deposit available for such a home. I assure him that if the time of lodgement is as soon as possible after the signing of a contract the processing can be done within relatively few days and there is no reason for the savings of a person to be completely dissipated before a grant is obtained. 
I merely make 2 other general points which deserve to be made because they apply in the total area of housing policy of which the homes savings grant policy is only part. The honourable member for Diamond Valley quite rightly drew attention to the complete lack of a housing policy in the Opposition. He pointed out that the scheme which was depicted at the Launceston conference as the gift of the Australian Labor Party to the people of Australia - the notorious 2 per cent interest subsidy policy - is now in ruins. He pointed out, quite rightly, that the scheme has been characterised as a profligate rich man's dream, and the Opposition intends to propose it. It remains in its policy; it remains in its platform. The Opposition is wedded to its platform without any flexibility whatsoever. I challenge the Opposition to indicate whether it has any policy in the area of housing. 
It was also pointed out that in the area of banking the Opposition has a policy concerning the Commonwealth Bank and loans at over 3 per cent which would do several things. If such a policy v/ere brought into operation it would prohibit 11,000 young home owners from obtaining their norma) home mortgages from the Commonwealth Bank. In the second place it would drive out of existence only a short time after that all the banks, other than the Commonwealth Savings Bank, involved in housing activities. That would prohibit 35,000-odd young home owners from obtaining their money from other than the Commonwealth banking system almost overnight. But most significantly for a party which says that it does not believe in increased taxation, to carry out that policy it would have to deposit some $300m with the Commonwealth Bank at interest rates of 1 per cent to1 per cent. Such money is not obtained except from public funds such as taxation funds. 
The Opposition's policies in these areas have been shown to be lacking completely. It is appropriate that they should be lacking. They do not exist. After all, when the spokesman for the Opposition on urban affairs speaks about these areas, no longer does he mention housing. It is specifically excluded. One might ask why it is specifically excluded. We heard it said this afternoon several times that the honourable member for Reid calls himself a dreamer, but sometimes precise administration is appropriate to consider. Dreamers do not dream up plans that are capable of assisting people with the precision with which housing mortgages are designed to assist people. Let me read what he said in the last part of this delightfully intellectual document called Towards a new Australia' - the new bible of the Opposition. The honourable member for Adelaide is interjecting. He is often called amongst his friends the silver-tailed radical in this House. The Opposition spokesman on urban affairs said: 
We commit ourselves but to a way of approaching the problem. Unlike the present way of doing things, we are not going to concentrate on isolated bits and pieces of the cities. 
It is quite clear that some of the bits and pieces of the cities that do not deserve any attention and do not deserve any precise administration or precise calculation are those bits and pieces inhabited by millions of Australian families and which in fact involve their own homes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
We are discussing the estimates of 3 of the great departments of the Australian Government; the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Trade and Industry. The departments are particularly significant in one of the world's great exporting nations, lt is in relation to these departments and especially the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Trade and Industry and the effects of activities in the export areas that I want to direct my attention tonight. Commodity exports in Australia have risen very rapidly over recent years. At the present time our exports are worth well over $4,000m a year. We need to examine those commodity exports by the States and the effect of the uncertainty of the States in relation to the subject of the Australian currency. In 1971-72 my own State, Queensland, had nearly $ 1,000m worth of commodity exports in those areas. The other great exporting Slate is, of course, Western Australia, which is slightly behind Queensland. Naturally, New South Wales and Victoria in absolute totals have greater commodity exports, but proportionately Queensland and Western Australia depend more for their vital and domestic activity on their export industries than do any of the other States of the Commonwealth. So one has to look very carefully at proposals which would breed uncertainty concerning the Australian dollar or which could cause uncertainty in export areas. 
We know that traditionally a nation's currency is to be defended until the very moment that any change occurs. In Germany in the late 1960s expectations were put abroad concerning the Deutschemark and that nation had to institute an incredibly complicated list of domestic and monetary controls in order to protect its currency. That made great difficulties for West German industry. It is in that context that the proposal made some weeks ago by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  concerning revaluation needs to be clarified. 
It was a very significant proposal and I will demonstrate it to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The Leader of the Opposition said on the night after he spoke on the Budget: 
I think the Australian dollar is undervalued but as long as that remains it will promote inflation in Australia. But you ask me - I am convinced that the Australian dollar ought to be appreciated in value. 
It is said that that is just an opinion. That is not so. Some time ago the Leader of the Opposition indicated that on any matter on which he expresses an opinion and on which there is not a declared Party policy his statements must be taken to represent the opinion of the Party. In Brisbane in August 1970 in referring to matters on which there is no officially conference declared policy he said: 
The fact is that anything I say on any matter is likely to be held to represent the Party view. 
So that is the situation. We cannot remain in a position of limbo. It would not be just to Australia's export industries to allow an uncertain position to persist in those areas. What would be the effect not only of the revaluation proposed by the Leader of the Opposition but also of the uncertainty which would accompany such a proposal during the coming months? It would create such uncertainty across Australia in terms of our own currency, in terms of our own investment and especially in terms of our own export industries, as to create a disadvantage to the Australian economy which would reach right into the heart of a number of capital cities. 
Every export industry in which Australia is not a complete price leader would suffer directly. The sugar industry, whether selling on a fixed or free market, would suffer. The meat industry would suffer. The mineral industries would suffer heavily. For every 1 per cent in revaluation - and they would suffer also in the uncertainty that accompanies revaluation - the mineral industries would lose $8m Copper affects my own State quite significantly. Mount Isa is vitally concerned with copper. Mount Isa contracts are written in sterling and so to the extent that there would be a revaluation, and the prospect of revaluation, $87m worth of exports would suffer proportionately. A 5 per cent revaluation would cause a loss of $4m in export income in that area alone. One can go through a number of export industries. Sugar, coal, meat, copper, wheat and even wool would be affected. Does it affect the level of domestic industry itself? It does. It affects the level of domestic industry particularly in Queensland and Western Australia and especially in the capital cities of Brisbane and Perth. 
We know from experience that in Queensland when export industries are under pressure, when there is depression in rural industries and when there is depression in the countryside significant unemployment has reached right into the centre of the capital city. We know also from an attempt to carry out an input-output analysis for Western Australia, as far back as 1964 or 1965, that you cannot have uncertainty and a lack of vitality in export industries in Western Australia. The economy of Western Australia has changed very significantly in the intervening years. But those studies indicate that such uncertainty and such a depression in export industries have their own effects on unemployment in Perth. 
The Leader of the Opposition has made a proposition which is more than an opinion. The statement by the honourable member for Dawson concerning this was correct. The honourable member for Dawson is only the elected member for the electorate of Dawson. He represents a far off electorate. He is not the Leader of the Opposition. He is not the honourable member for Werriwa. The honourable member for Dawson cannot say that on any Party policy on which there is not an officially declared decision his own statement must be taken to represent Party policy. The Leader of the Opposition has stated that. He has stated it often. I have indicated only one occasion on which he has made such a proposition. 
So the Australian Labor Party, if it desires Australia to continue to be one of the great exporting nations of the world, if it desires that commodity exports should continue to increase as they have over recent years and if it desires employment and investment to continue in most States in Australia but certainly in the great exporting States of the Commonwealth, certainly needs to repudiate the statements of its own leader. To rely on the statement that it is merely an opinion is insufficient and is unsatisfactory. If you were to ask members of the Opposition their basic opinion on this they must agree with that. They cannot be allowed and they will not bc allowed to have this half-way house between an opinion expressed and an aim towards which they want their Party to move whilst at the same time saying: 'Well, we do not want to go there in any case'. 
I suggest that during the course of this debate the Opposition should take the opportunity - and it must do so - of clarifying its own position. If that requires other opinions to be repudiated or altered the Labor Party has to weigh the consequences of making a decision of that nature against the effects in real terms on thousands of Australians. After all, if it is proposed that a currency be altered in value at the wrong time, as has occurred in other countries - in European countries during the 1930s and in Great Britain during the 1920s - such an incorrect decision can cause thousands of men to be unemployed as happened in the United Kingdom unnecessarily when an incorrect decision was made in that country in the middle 1920s. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
In any consideration of the estimates for the Department of Health several questions must be asked and explored. The first is: What is the basis of the relationship between doctor and patient in the health service in Aus tralia? The second is: What are the relationships between patients and their hospitals? Both of those questions are deserving of exploration. The honeyed words of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and, on occasions, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  concerning the retention of the doctor-patient relationship deserve to be examined because another relationship enters into it and that is the relationship between the doctor and government. In any situation in which the latter is proposed to be substituted for the former it is appropriate to explore what, under a Labor government, would be the attitude of government, of the administration of government, to the doctor because the direct relationship is invited. It is a central theme and a central thesis of Labor's nationalised health plan. What goodwill would exist between a doctor and a government under that plan? 
I have been amazed by the strident venom that drips from the lips of the Opposition concerning doctors. It is therefore appropriate to ask: With what attitude would, say, the honourable member for Oxley, as Minister for Health, approach the thousands of general practitioners in Australia? I will quote just two or three sentences. They are appropriate to be remembered. Last Friday night he said of the doctors of Australia: 
In spite of this heavy dependence on tax supported programmes to bolster already fat and unreasonably high incomes, they are discontented. 
Then there was some weeping concerning the family doctor. What does the Labor Party say about the relationship of the family doctor with the Trojan horse of its own salaried service? Another delightful sentence from the honourable member for Oxley was: 
What doctors have not come to terms with yet is that the concept of the 'folksy' old family doctor is largely dead and gone. 
This would be the mentality of a government with $ 10,000m of budget force to put into the balance against doctors, against the preservation of doctors, in our own health service. My final quote from the honourable member was: 
Additionally, the community generally is better educated and questions the justification of the medical profession seeking to play the role of God among mortals. 
Those motives, reinforced with a budget of over  $l0,000m,  means that one could say goodbye to the doctor service, to the doctorpatient relationship, which we have traditionally had in this nation. That is reinforced further by delightful comments by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  on 23rd July concerning tha hospital system. He was reported as having said: 
Private hospitals and private nursing homes are irrelevant to the Labor Party's concept of a national health s:heme and the vast majority of people could easily be catered for in the public hospital sector. 
There was a charming comment by the Leader of the Opposition himself. He has thrown his own philosophy into the balance with the honourable member for Oxley and with the honourable member for Maribyrnong concerning the Australian health service. In the latest Fabian Society pamphlet, which was released quite recently, entitled 'Labour at Home by Gough Whitlam', he said: 
The major act of nationalism in the traditional sense to be undertaken by a Labor government in the next term, will be through the establishment of a single health fund, administered by a health insurance commission . . . 
That would be backed by the weight of finance to which 1 have previously referred. Let there be no doubt in anybody's mind that the philosophy and the intention of the Opposition concerning the general practitioner in Australia - that old folksy family doctor - is perfectly clear. The Labor Party means to eliminate him by a variety or measures. 
There is one further matter to which I want to refer, namely, the hospital system. I want to refer to it particularly in relation to the position in my own State of Queensland. The remarkable feature is that the honourable member for Oxley, who portrays himself as the shadow Minister for Health, means to destroy 25 years of a Queensland public hospital system by imposing on Australia and Australians a new compulsory health tax - a tax which people in that State and throughout the nation have not previously paid, lt is a tax whose rate of imposition he has increased twice within the last 2 years. It has increased from 1.25 per cent to 1.3 per cent and then to 1.35 per cent of taxable income. It is also a weight of tax which he will have to increase further in the next 3 months if he is to meet the very high public bed charges imposed in the Labor controlled States of Australia. These States impose the highest public bed charges in the Commonwealth. For that reason alone the rate of compulsory health tax will have to be increased even further. 
What would that mean to the ordinary citizen? What would it mean to a worker? It would mean that he would be subjected under Labor's proposed scheme - we have been able to look at it from 1969-70 onwards - to a compulsory tax escalating at the rate of at least 12 per cent per annum. Forget taxation deductions and the rest of it; they are out. He will be paying a new compulsory health tax. And, under a new compulsory health tax, what could be destroyed? Not only initiative but also, in the words of the honourable member for Maribyrnong, the private hospital system. People who wished to utilise this system under a Labor government would have to pay not only the compulsory health tax but also everything in excess of $13 a day which is charged by the private, the charitable and the religious hospital system in Australia. In my own State - I have done calculations only for one State - those patients utilising the non-government hospital system would be deprived in the first year of between $6. 5m and $7m. What better way to destroy, even if indirectly, the private hospital system and what better way to make people rather suspicious? Over 2 million bed days were utilised in my own State last year by patients accommodated in a public hospital system developed under a variety of Queensland governments over a number of years. The people who accounted for the 2 million bed days - some hundreds of thousands of people - would have to pay a new compulsory health tax. The private hospital system itself would be placed under an incredibly great strain and would be on the way to being destroyed quite quickly within the first year. The common sense of the argument indicates that. But perhaps the greatest enigma is that such a programme is proposed by a shadow Minister for Health from Queensland. He wants to milk the people of his own State in favour of some doctrinaire approach concerning 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! Did somebody use the word 'liar'? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  It will have to be withdrawn immediately. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I call the Minister for Housing. 
The shadow Minister for Health would milk the people of his own State of Queensland in favour of some nationalised doctrinaire scheme. He wants to plunder the free hospital system of his own State. He has announced his intention even before he has been put on the front bench of government. I make it perfectly clear to him that that proposal will be rejected by the people of Queensland. If it is suggested that there be some recompense in terms of a further contribution to the State, I would say that the honourable gentlemen opposite do not even understand the State finances. The consequences of this scheme should be known. I would be delighted to hear a defence of what the Labor Party has proposed, especially concerning the home State of the shadow Minister for Health. 
I want to comment for a few minutes on this Bill because it is an important Bill. Having listened for some minutes to the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  I merely want to say that he has expressed in a rather more sophisticated form, as did the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  the opposition of the Australian Labor Party to all forms of assistance at all levels of education which that Party has consistently adopted since the middle 1950s. Let me cite to the House some examples of this attitude. In 1956 when the Federal Government decided to assist with interest on capital construction in the Australian Capital Territory, the Australian Labor Party expressed disapproval. In 1961 when interest was extended to the primary sector in the Australian Capital Territory, once again disapproval was expressed. In 1963 when it was proposed that a science laboratory scheme be instituted by the Federal Government to assist all schools throughout Australia, once again disapproval was expressed. In 1964 when the Bill was passed which gave assistance for laboratories in all schools throughout Australia thereby assisting all parents and all students in all schools, opposition was expressed again. In 1965 opposition was expressed again. On all these occasions, particularly on the latter occasion, when Bills were presented to this House, if the Labor Party had been successful in its opposition no assistance would have been given. 
So we come to the more sophisticated form of opposition which has been enshrined in this false, divisive, cruel needs policy which the Opposition wants to impose on a particular sector of education. The attitude of the Opposition to this needs policy really intrigues me, because there is only one section of activity on the Australian scene on which the Opposition wants to impose its divisive needs policy. This is with respect to non-government education. The Opposition has made it perfectly clear where it stands in relation to means tests. It has made it perfectly clear that its policies with respect to housing are a profligate rich man's dream. Under Labor's welfare housing scheme, if a person wanted to build a castle he would receive much more assistance than if he wanted to build a normal dwelling. If the Opposition wanted to impose compulsory health taxes it would apply them across the board. The only area left in which the Opposition wants to continue to impose a divisive needs policy is with respect to this level of education. It would be well for members of this House to ask why the Opposition should want to do that, especially in respect of this type of education. 
But we find that the Opposition has strange running companions in this attitude. It so happens that on this occasion the attitude of the Opposition concerning aid to all schools is similar to the resolution carried by the Communist Party's Education Policy Committee meeting at the national training centre at Minto on 22nd May 1971. Present at that meeting were  Mrs Colley, chairman,  wife of the manager of the Communist Party of Australia,  Mrs  Kath  McDonald, wife of Tom McDonald, and others. I will read part of the resolution which would almost seem to be out of the mouths of some honourable members opposite. It said: 
Committee therefore proposed sustained campaign to propagandise- 
They were speaking particularly about Catholic parents - 
Catholic parents and split them into 2 camps. Campaign to focus on unequal division of resources within the Catholic system itself, e.g. poorer schools and staffing for pupils of poorer parents and consequent loss of opportunity for higher education for children of working Catholics, compared with wealthy Catholics. 
One can see the similarity in motivation, intention and action between that and what the Opposition proposes and has proposed since 1969. It should be plain for all to see. The fact is that the Bill which has been presented by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is designed to assist all forms of education and it does so in various ways. 
Let me produce one simple little piece of arithmetic which should demonstrate it even to some members of the Opposition. The  assistance given for each child to remain at non-government high schools would enable $450 to be spent at present on an equivalent child at a government school. For each child who is assisted to remain at a non-government primary school through assistance such as this Government is giving and through assistance such as State governments are giving - the Labor State governments are always the most pasimonious in this respect - there is between $200 and $250 available to be spent from public funds on an equivalent child at a government primary school. Unfortunately, the blindness of honourable members opposite prevents them from seeing the good sense and the economics of this proposal. The words of the honourable member for Bendigo, who is competing for the shadow ministry of education, are not good social or economic sense. 
Let me go a little further. The pattern of administration which is proposed in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle ought to be contemplated because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  indicated that the model for the administration of this needs system is to be South Australia. What a model! So the Leader of the Opposition will go around Australia and say that South Australia is to be the model for his administration in this area. Two points about South Australia ought to be contemplated. The level of assistance given in South Australia competes for the most parsimonious in the Commonwealth. No wonder it is the model. Secondly, the system which that needs programme is designed to assist is the smallest in the Commonwealth. No wonder it is the model. The point that is catching up with the Opposition in this respect is that poor people as well as well-to-do people are becoming increasingly aware of what it is up to. 
Let me refer to the Cook Committee in South Australia which was set up to give assistance in this area. In its second report it said that the Committee wished to express its deep concern for all schools and the increasing need for adequate across the board per capita grants to meet recurrent costs. 
The rest amounts to a saver. The schools have to live with the government that attempts to give them assistance. The Committee made it quite clear that the level of assistance and the type of assistance given in that State is quite inadequate and unfair. But let us go a little further. When an opposition proposes to put upon people a method of assistance which those people do not want, one must ask why this is done. This crying for poor schools is cynical and hypocritical in the extreme because all the poor schools in the non government sector in Australia want the per capita assistance which this Government proposes to give. All their organisations want it. Those who speak for that system want it. Yet the Opposition wants to impose its own divisive policies in this area. To find out why I go back to other doctrines. Perhaps it is to divide rich against poor, to divide class against class. In the process there is a denial of the basic right of a child to assistance merely because that child goes to school. That is why assistance is given. A superabundant efficiency or a relative lack of efficiency, a rich type of education or a poor type of education are not the measures. It is given because that child goes to a school. 
Some honourable members opposite know that they should have been quoting a principle which has been in the United Nations Charter since 1948. That principle was affirmed, it continues to be affirmed and yet the Opposition departs from it. One ought to ask why the Opposition departs from it. The problem is that the Opposition, in promoting its amendment as it has promoted similar propositions since 1956, denies a basic right to parents. But above all it denies the means whereby increasing levels of education can be attained at all schools for all students in Australia. If the Opposition wants to introduce divisive policies let it go to South Australia. There we have it, and that State is to be the model.  Mr Dunstan  is concerned for education. He is concerned for social policies. That is to be the model of the Opposition in so many areas. One other thing that intrigues me is the statement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  and I use his own words: We have to judge motives as long as we are in politics'. And we ought to judge motives. He will go to parochial schools in Sydney and say: 'Elect my Party. We have your interests at heart. We will look after you with a needs policy.' The people there do not want it. Judge his motives. Judge his motives in speaking to parents at such a school. Judge whether his aims would be their aims. He is a man who would use  Mr Dunstan  as his Steerforth. a man who would use South Australian policies as models for his own legislation. Judge whether the parents of a child at a parochial school would accept the Leader of the Opposition with his permissive policies as being appropriate for them. We could not judge that he would have any sympathy concerning their children or the other children of Australia. 
Let us make one last point which deserves to be made. This Bill is a just Bill. Its provisions will assist education at all levels within Australia. In assisting students at government schools it will assist those at non-government schools and in assisting those at non-government schools it will assist those at government schools. The Bill will receive the unanimous support of this side of the House without qualifications but the intention of the amendment should be realised. It is part of a list of amendments moved over many years, all designed to split education into camps and to be divisive socially, politically and in any other manner. 
I am aware of the statement that was made during the last parliamentary recess by the Leader of the Opposition and, I think, also by the honourable member for Reid that the Australian Labor Party had plans to reduce the cost of Australian homes by up to $6,000. Of course, in the world of politics, they can always make such a proposal, but this is a very serious one because as a result of it many inquiries were made to me by young people. In answering those inquiries I had to indicate to them that nothing but a very cruel and deliberate hoax was being played upon thousands of young home seekers in Australia by the Leader of the Opposition. It was a cruel hoax because the very person who made this proposal has put forward propositions which would have 2 results on the home industry in Australia. These precise policies would, firstly, destroy the very institutions which provide a major source of home finance in Australia. Another major plank in the housing policy of the Labor Party is designed to increase and would in fact increase the cost of homes in nearly every State of the Commonwealth. Consequently, it is the height of irresponsibility for the Leader of the Opposition and others to propose that they could reduce the cost of a home by up to $6,000. One could only presume that such a statement is designed to cause serious discontent, perhaps for political purposes, among thousands of young people. For those reasons it is quite understandable that during the whole Budget session of this Parliament not one question has been directed to me by the Shadow Minister for Housing or the shadow shadow Minister, the honourable member for Hughes, because I think it is an area in which they have such a great deal to be very apologetic about. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. My comment was that no question had been asked of me without notice. I made it perfectly clear that no question had been asked of me without notice, in spite of an invitation given to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and others, because they fear to ask a question on housing without notice because their own policy is in tatters. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1971 I present the eighth annual report on the administration and operation of that Act for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
 The proposed expenditure for the Department of Housing amounts to $7,998,000. To this proposal an amendment has been moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. The amendment comprises 4 parts. Very quickly I will deal with some aspects of his amendment to indicate the reasons why it should be rejected. The first part of the amendment relates to a proposal to set up a land development commission which would acquire land in the States. It is clear that the land development commission would acquire land for leasehold purposes. In relation to this proposition I point out that it has not yet been demonstrated on the outskirts of the capital cities and other existing areas of population that making land available on a leasehold basis has  a  lasting effect on land prices. 
The attitude which the Government takes when there are high costs for land is that this is best attended to by ensuring that there is an increase in the supply cf land to come on to the market. There are instances in Australia, notably in Western Australia, where land prices have escalated beyond the basic costs of land development. In Perth the action taken by the State Government through the Rural and Industries Bank of Western Australia and the State Housing Commission enabled a greater supply of land to be made available for development and to come on to the market Where there had been an increment in the price above the basic development costs due to an imperfect market that price decreased. It did not merely cease increasing; it decreased in absolute terms. So the attitude of the Government has been- 
That is right and it is a pity that you said that because there is a Labor Government in Western Australia now. I was trying to spare you that fact. The situation in Perth illustrated quite significantly that when there is an imperfect market for land - that is an under supply of land - that problem can be attended to and the market can be altered and in cases it has been altered. Further to this point, I am interested in the predisposition to obtain land for leasehold purposes at all costs. There is a great difference between leasehold land and freehold land and there can be a great difference in the attitudes of people who have freehold land and those who have leasehold land especially where there is a collection of people who are used to the practice of land being available with freehold title. It is in relation to existing areas of population - not in relation to Canberra or new cities - that the proposition that land should be acquired on a leasehold basis in order to influence the market should be looked at very carefully. This proposition should not be adopted too hastily. 
If the honourable member for Reid is happy with that part of the amendment concerning the development of land I would refer him to the second study of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies and remind him that ultimately a great deal of the authority in these areas lies with local authorities and with State governments. If the Labor Party intends to undertake an expenditure of $200m a year over 5 years to acquire land for leasehold purposes then I pose this question: For what period is the lease to apply? Leases have to apply for a long period. The return on leases is quite low over a period. There is no freehold title. I suggest that on that basis far more money would be required over a greater period of time than the honourable member suggested. I presume that the honourable member would be happy with the attitudes of Labor local authorities in their administration of land development. There is no suggestion that the present practice of Labor local authorities - where they have the power - is in any way to be altered. In the second study by the Institute of Urban Studies reference is made to the Brisbane City Council which is the largest local authority in Australia and it is a Labor local authority. In the conclusions of that study on the administration of land by the largest Labor local authority in Australia the Institute states: 
In principle, there seems little support for a case of negotiated rezoning. 
That is the principle of land administration under the control of that Labor local authority. The conclusions further state: 
To give Councils a right to make any such demands can only result in delays, with subsequent increases in holding costs, which result in excessive costs to developers and therefore eventually to the land buyer. 
These principles would be maintained by a land development commission presumably under the control of a Federal Labor government. The conclusions state further: 
When prices have escalated to the extent that developers can afford to meet demands development will recommence. 
This is the pattern of Brisbane development presumably under a local authority of which others have said they are very proud. One can only presume that the same kind of principles would be implemented by a Federal Labor government. I shall make two or three other quick comments on the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid. The amendment seeks also to make grants and increase loans to State governments to increase construction of public housing. I have only to mention the Bill that was passed through this House last year which made such grants available to State governments for public housing to remind honourable members how wonderfully successful that proposal has been in reducing the greatest cost in housing - interest rates. It was successful in reducing those interest rates by nearly 2 per cent in many cases. Members of the Opposition should be reminded that they took the advice of the honourable member for Reid and in fact opposed the passage of that Bill. They preferred another type of measure about which they know nothing. The Opposition opposed the passage of a Bill which last year  -  1971  -  did just this. So one has to doubt not only the Opposition's knowledge in these areas but also its motives. 
I refer to one other matter mentioned by the honourable member for Reid which is concerned with paragraph (c) of his amendment. This proposal refers to other grants for public housing authorities. Paragraph (d) of the amendment is really repeating paragraphs (b) and (c) which propose the making of grants and reducing interest rates. Perhaps enough has been said concerning that matter. However, in relation to making grants to reduce interest rates, the Committee should be reminded that the linch pin of Labor's housing policy was its gift to the people. They are not my words; they are the words of leading spokesmen for the Opposition. In fact, its gift to the people was to make subsidies available to certain institutional lenders to reduce interest rates. One knows now that that policy which was the centre point of Labor's whole programme and which was advertised as its new housing policy is no longer supported or even defended by anyone opposite. No-one would do it. It is only one of the 6 housing policies that have been announced by the Opposition since the June 1971 Launceston Conference. So, as the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  pointed out, who can believe the Opposition? Who can take it seriously? 
The final proposal contained in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid is to establish uniformity of building codes. The Opposition should know that the Department of Housing developed a mode. building code in 1970. The Commonwealth Government has little direct authority in this field. This model building code was made available to those who were interested in developing uniform building codes. Arising out of that, State authorities presently are meeting and are developing a tentative model uniform building code, and one hopes that they are able to develop a uniform building code so as to assist housing and assist in reducing costs in housing where in fact they can be reduced. 
A number of other points were made but I will mention just one. I think the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  may have been under a slight misapprehension when referring to the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. As I understand him, he suggested that the Corporation was catering for a pattern of wage erners who required a certain size of loan, which rather rather indicated that the Corporation was catering to the affluent sections pf society. 
The same principle still applies, yes. It was suggested that the Corporation was catering to a group in society capable of negotiating loans which were significantly larger than were made under normal practice. I suggest that the honourable member should examine page 41 of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation's report which indicates that for the year just ended well over 50 per cent of those who obtained loans which were insured by the Corporation were on an average income or less. So a number of measures have been persistently maintained to ensure that the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation assists those on as low an income as possible, those who negotiate for a loan as small as is compatible with their obtaining a home. To that purpose it will be realised that there are limits on the interest rates that apply. To that purpose it will be realised that there is a maximum size of loan which can be insured by this Corporation. This has been the philosophy of the Corporation since it was established. 
Other matters were mentioned by other speakers but I do not intend to refer to these in detail. However, one has to come to the defence of the honourable member for Diamond Valley in relation to a reflection that was cast upon him. It was suggested that because he was born with a silver spoon in his mouth and because he came from an affluent family and is particularly well to do he does not understand the problems of those who desire to purchase homes as cheaply as possible or homes in relation to which the costs have been reduced as much as possible. Those implications are incorrect. I do not intend to go into the personal history of the honourable member for Diamond Valley but I assure honourable members that they are very wide of the mark. I do not know whether the honourable member has any property. He may well have one piece of property which he is trying to pay off, but he is not the landlord of several properties. For the reasons which I have outlined, as well as for other reasons, the Government submits that the amendment before the Committee should be defeated. It would not serve the purpose which it is designed to serve and h would not assist the housing situation in Australia at all. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)-  Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Mir UREN-I see that the Minister has a copy of my proposals in front of him, and it on that basis that I say that his statement was either dishonest or incompetent. 
Who is dishonest? 
A Commonwealth Labor government, in cooperation with the State and local governments, would acquire land on the fringe of the provincial capital cities and country towns. Land could be administered by State Housing authorities, land allocated on need and/or ballot on leasehold or sale. 
If we look at the proposals relating to the land development commission, we find that the first proposal reads: 
. State housing authorities . . . where appropriate, would develop the land itself and allocate generally on a leasehold basis. 
So in 2 cases it can be seen that our policy would not be, as the Minister said, leasehold land at all costs. It is about time that this misrepresentation was cleared up. I put my proposals in writing so that everybody could understand what I am advocating. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS (Lilley- Minister for Housing) -  Mr Lucock,  I claim to have been misrepresented. I merely referred to the first part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr. Uren),  which states:   to acquire necessary land, hold it in public ownership, develop it and make it available on reasonable terms on a leasehold basis . . . 
There is no qualification. It simply says 'on a leasehold basis'. Then it goes on to state other things. The intention of that is quite clear. That is the amendment on which the Opposition will be voting. 

 Mr UREN (Reid) -  Mr Chairman,  unlike the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  I do not falsify the Hansard record. I will allow Hansard to determine what his meaning was - whether be was talking about the amendment only or whether he was talking about the wide spectrum of the Australian Labor Party's land proposals. 
I have not the opportunity to speak for a great length of time this evening; but I am pleased to be aware that, with his usual perspicacity in financial affairs, the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  indicated that he would retain the Commonwealth Grants Commission in its present general form. Although he said that on occasions the Grants Commission may examine matters in too great a detail, it will give people great assurance to know that the present type of calculation would be retained by a Labor government. That is so, is it not? 
I must say that I am unbowed by his comments on the racing and other communities. I merely mention one point to him: In Queensland, there are 3 principal racetracks and each of them is in my electorate. So, I might maintain a slight and very general difference in emphasis between the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and myself. 
The report of the Grants Commission has been criticised in that it has gone into some matters in too great a detail. I do not intend to follow the report in the precise detail of the number of adjusted fields: rather shall I look at the Grants Commission report in a general way and commend it in the broad. That does not necessarily contradict in any way the comments of the shadow Treasurer. This is a very important report because, for the first time, it is an annual report - not a special report - that deals with my own State of Queensland. The difference in this report is exemplified on page 13 in which the Commission makes recommendations for grants to 3 States. It recommends for Queensland an advance grant for 1972-73 of $I0m; for South Australia, an advance grant for 1972-73 and a positive completion grant for 1970-71 amounting to $21 m; and for Tasmania, 2 similar grants amounting to over $7m. So, in total, this report recommends the provision of over $38m to what are now the 3 claimant States of the Commonwealth. 
It is worth referring quickly to the change in emphasis that has come about as a result of the refinement of the methods of the Grants Commission. In the early days of the Grants Commission, not long after Prime Minister Lyons had it instituted, it sought to measure only the degree of financial disability between the States. That was more an accounting type of measure, a measure merely of Budget comparisons. In subsequent years the Commission has refined its activities to comparing the fiscal efforts as between States, or in the broader term, taking into account the environment in which the people in a State operate, the environment in which they pay taxes, or the environment in which they show a propensity to pay certain taxes as compared with other States. The Commission desires to measure fiscal equality. To that extent it has been a very useful body, particularly to the smaller States and to my State of Queensland. 
Tasmania remains the only State which has consistently and persistently been a claimant State. It is clear from the works of people such as Professor Russell Matthews that it has certainly not been to Tasmania's disadvantage. It is quite clear that Tasmania would not have done as well if it had seceded or ceased to be a claimant State. It is commonsense that the same argument applies to Queensland. For example, over the past year Queensland has gained through one grant and another up to Si 9m. In terms of the total grants for 1972-73, when there is a completion grant the total will certainly be of the order of S18m or $19m. The present estimates concerning Queensland are quite conservative. We suggest that the principles on which the Grants Commission has based its activities deserve to be maintained and retained. I will certainly fight for that situation. 
Having studied the report of the Commission I would like to advert briefly to the principal reasons for inequalities between the States that the Commission gives in a number of areas, lt refers to differences in terms of budgetary calculations and differences in terms of population. It refers to age groupings of populations, industries in a State, social service difficulties as between States in terms of administration, and so on. I wish to deal with my own State of Queensland in this area because it is quite important. As I have been enjoined not to take the full time allowable to me I will cover this important subject quite quickly. 
For a number of years Queensland has been a non-claimant State. This year she has sought to be a claimant State. I am concerned that Queensland now, having sought to be a claimant State, is being utilised as a reason to oppose a threat to one of the areas which is an adjusted field, to its own field of free hospitals. I want to deal with that point in some detail because it gives rise to an area of great misunderstanding. Under the free hospitals system of Queensland last year nearly 2 million bed days were made available to Queensland citizens. The free hospital system was made available to nearly 200,000 citizens of that State. The Queensland Government intends to retain the free hospitals system at all costs. It will fight to retain it. Such a proposition has to be emphasised because some spurious and malevolent propaganda has been promoted by the Labor Party in which the Grants Commission is referred to as the threat to the free hospital system of Queensland. Nobody has been busier in making the threat than the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  On 3rd October the Leader of the Opposition, according to a report, had this to say in Queensland! 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission is therefore bound to penalise Queensland for providing services - free hospitals - additional to those provided in the standard States. If Queensland is to retain its free hospitals it can only do so if New South Wales and Victoria also get free hospitals. 
What a delightful piece of fallacious reasoning that is. The Leader of the Opposition then had this to say: 
These 2 States will get free hospitals under a Federal Labor Government but they won't get them back under a Federal Liberal Government. 
It is a statement by the Leader of the Opposition, reported on 3rd October 1972, concerning the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I want to examine that situation. The proposition which the Labor Party makes in respect of this social service is to tax the people of Queensland by the introduction of a new compulsory health tax which will enable them only to have their own free hospitals. The proposition will give the people nothing. It is a tax which will be imposed on each citizen working in that State and will escalate at the rate of 12 per cent a person a year. 
That is right; they will pay through the neck and in fact they will retain nothing. They will have no advantage from the introduction of a new admission fee. The Labor Party should be pretty sensitive about this proposal because it has been putting out propaganda that the Government represents the threat to Queensland's free hospital system. It is always the technique of the big lie to assert of others what you intend doing yourself. I will cite some figures. The proposition has been made consistently since 1969. I refer now to the compulsory health tax which it is proposed to levy on citizens and which would have been levied on them under the Labor Party's programme over the last 3 years. What is it? A Queenslander receiving the average wage and claiming the normal deductions in 1969 would have paid $41 a year admission fee to his own free hospitals. In 1970-71 he would have paid $47 a year under the compulsory health tax for admission to his own free hospitals. This year, under Labor's policy, he would have paid between $54 and $56 for admission to his own free hospitals. Next year it would be in excess of $60. There may be variations on those figures of a couple of dollars higher or lower but the escalation is the same. The people of that State would be given only what they receive at present. The Labor Party has gained some shrewd propaganda by saying: Well, of course, unless we do this the Grants Commission is going to force the State to charge'. The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  would have heard that piece of propaganda. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  would have heard that piece of propaganda. It is basically incorrect. 
That is right. It is basically incorrect. The Labor Party shadow Minister for Health said that the present formula discriminates against Queensland because it has free hospitals'. Not only is that an untruth but it also is a half-truth meant to deceive. It is the half truth that it is always worse that a lie. 
I am delighted to hear the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  say that. A Labor government did introduce free hospitals in Queensland.  Senator Gair,  a former Premier of Queensland, fought to keep free hospitals within the voluntary health system. It is a Labor government that will plunder and destroy the system merely to introduce free public hospitals under a very spurious scheme in New South Wales and Victoria. Those are the words of the Leader of the Opposition. The Labor Party is out to plunder the people of one State for the benefit of people in another State. The Dean of the Faculty of Commerce at the University of Queensland saw through this proposition. Two years and 7 days ago he said 
It is a matter for Queenslanders to decide whether they wish to maintain a free hospitals system. But, by the same token, if Queensland succeeds in reducing its deficit either by economising in some services or by having heavier taxation, the Grants Commission will not make any corresponding redaction in the special grant. In other words, the grant is determined by an objective assessment of needs irrespective of the actual levels of taxation and Government expenditure. How the money is used is entirely up to the State governments. 
But that proposition, the ability to retain what has become almost an article of faith in that State, is denigrated by the Opposition by the tactic of the big lie, the half truth which is worse than a lie, and a very cruel one. I have not finished; there are other friendly comments I would like to make because they deserve to be made, at least in the cause of truth. We arrive at the situation that it is suggested that the Queensland free hospital scheme will be abolished unless Labor is elected. It is suggested that otherwise a charge will be forced on the free hopital scheme. When Labor members make that kind of comment, they have not even read the report. If they do not understand the difference between financial disability and fiscal disability, although I hardly have time to do so I would recommend that they read paragraph 315 at page 43 of the 38th report of 1971 where those differences should at least be brought home to them. Instead of the hospital scheme being a disadvantage to the State - that is the excuse Opposition members want for a compulsory health tax - there could even be, for this purpose alone, a financial advantage to the State of Queensland. 
This Grants Commission report makes perfectly clear that in the terms of hospital expenditure it will be the per capita system of expenditure as between States that will determine their adjusted field of hospital and health expenditure. If Opposition members examine page 154 of the appendix to the report they will see the cost for health, hospitals and charities; and if they take the average between New South Wales and Victoria they will see that it is slightly higher than the figure for Queensland. So given that there were no greater environmental difficulties, or difficulties of distance or of administration, other things being equal, even for their own hospital scheme Queensland could have gained a favourable adjustment. This may be borne out when the completion grant is sustained in 2 years time. 
However, 1 return to the original point 1 was making. The Grants Commission has been of very great benefit to my own State, so much so that Queensland, together with other Liberal and Country Party States are the leading States in the Commonwealth in terms of economic development, surety of employment, surety of conditions and security for their own people. I go further than this to say that if this Grants Commission has been of such great advantage to Queensland, why does Labor try to utilise it as a reason for introducing its own malevolent, nationalised Labor health scheme? Why do not Labor members at least drop the excuse? The Leader of the Opposition tried to play blackmail on the people of that State in this respect, but no sensible person could sustain the blackmail or support it. Even in New South Wales and Victoria his own Party has not proposed in any recent State election policy speech to introduce a free hospital system. So why utilise the lack of such a promise as an excuse to plunder the people of my own State for which this is the first complete Commonwealth Grants Commission report? 
I summarise what I have to say because the summary is appropriate. This Giants Commission report has given my own State nearly $20m within one year. That money has enabled the State better to retain its own social services. It is not a reason for which those social services, and in this particular case its own hospital system, should be surrendered. The Opposition wants to make it a reason for surrendering them and the entrance fee is its own compulsory Labor health tax which will lie upon each person individually. The truth is that people are becoming aware of this. I have given indications of the escalation in personal tax which it is proposed to place upon the people of that State, not just for the free public hospital system which they have but by an ancillary measure by which they intend to des&gt;. at the same time all the funded benefit for the private and intermediate hospital system. 
It is perfectly true, and the member for Brisbane knows it. The Opposition will not have funded benefits for a private hospital system. 
It is perfectly true. Are you going to support the private funds? 
You will support them? People will be able to obtain private insurance for $30 a day? The honourable member for Brisbane should consult his Leader and his shadow Minister for Health. I revert to the previous points I made. The Opposition's proposition in this area is now shown to have been a half truth which ls worse than a lie, a deliberate misleading of nearly 2 million people in one State, and because it is attempting to delude so many people it amounts to a very cruel distortion of the truth. 
Opposition will not speak, the Government is prepared to grant him leave to make his statement. I thank the House for its indulgence. The honourable member for Brisbane might now care to move the adjournment of the debate, and within 5 minutes or so, which time might depend on whether the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  might wish to reply briefly to the honourable member for Sturt, the debate might proceed. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cross)  adjourned. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He referred toa previous debate in this chamber. I will refer to that debate in one or two words. I did have a copy of the Press statement of the honourable member for Reid in my possession then, and a very interesting statement it is. I will make 2 comments on it: It reeks of the philosophy of State landlordism and the statement itself-- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question' .  is  as follows: 
The numbers of applications for .Home Savings Grants received and approved or rejected in each financial year in each State and Territory from the commencement of the Home Savings Grant Scheme on 20th July 1964 to 30(h June 1972 are shown in the tables below: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No credit union sought to become approved (and hence establish acceptability of its members' savings) under the conditions provided for in the Homes Savings Grant Act 1970. 
and (3) Following assent to the Homes Savings Grant Act 1972 on 27th September, ,a credit union may become approved if it meets only one condition, namely that not less than 20 per cent of its annual lending is, and continues to be, by way of housing loans. This essential condition is imposed to . continue to induce young people saving to own their own bornes to put their savings in forms which add to the funds available to be lent for the acquisition of a home. This, has always been one of the objects of the Home Savings Grant Scheme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1969-70 nil; 1970-71 nil; 1971-72 18. 
(a) 191. (b) and (c) Biloela 8; Buderim 9; Bulimba 6; Bundaberg 8; Caboolture 4; Currumbin 14; Goondiwindi 6; Hawthorne 11; Ipswich 7; Mackay 5; Margate 17; Maryborough J; Morningside 4; Nundah 4; Rockhampton 4; Sandgate 8; Southport 13; St George 4; Warwick 8; West End 32; Wynnum 4; Zillmere 10. (d) The Queensland Housing Commission has advised that as a matter of policy it does not quote prospective completion dates for projects. 
The Queensland Government has undertaken to spend $1,800,000 from its own sources over the 5 year period ending 30 June 1974. Completions were 1969-70 nil; 1970-71 nil; 1971-72 7. The State has to date approved construction of a further 69 units. 
Papua New Guinea: Minerals and Royalties  (Question No. 5993)  Dr Klugman  asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Will he extend Table 36 (Value of Minerals Produced and State Government Collections of Royalties 1966-67 to 1970-71) in the Treasury Economic Paper No. 1 - Overseas Investment in Australia, by supplying similar information for Papua New Guinea. 
Pursuant to section 50b of the War Service Homes Act 1918-1971, I present the annual report of the Director of War Service Homes for the year ended 30th June 1972. An interim report was presented to the House on 13th September 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Home Savings Grant Scheme seeks to encourage young people to save for their first matrimonial homes. As cheque accounts are not ordinarily used as a means of accumulating savings towards a home, they are not included' as a form of acceptable savings under the Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Because official statistics of the number of home purchasers and of the average cost of a house and land are not available it is not possible to provide the details sought. 
 I shall deal with the question which was posed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  The provision applying to those Torres Strait Islanders who, as a result of this Bill, will become eligible applicants for war service homes is that an advance will be made on a property judged to be an appropriate security for the period of time during which the finance is to be made available. Judgments will be made on whether the building or dwelling given as security is a building or dwelling appropriate to the area. The standards of a building required in the Torres Strait Island, of course, will be different from those which apply in Launceston, Toorak or wherever else one may like to go. A judgment appropriate to the region will be made as long as an appropriate security is given. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Applications lodged with Slate housing authorities for houses (and flats) built  in  accordance with Commonwealth-State arrangements, and built with finance from Slate sources, i.e. total applications, were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As 1 explained in an answer on 11th November 1971, the Tentative Uniform Home Building Code was made available to the Interstate Standing Committee on Uniform Building Regulations late in 1970. It was for the Interstate Committee to decide the standards for home building to be incorporated in its Australian Model Uniform Building Code. 
I understand that the last portion of the draft Code was forwarded to State Ministers of Local Government on 5th October 1971. It is their prerogative to decide whether, to what extent and when to adopt the Code. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Conference held in Hobart in April 1972 was a Conference of State Housing Ministers convened by the Tasmanian Minister for Housing. It was not a Conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Housing as such. I was invited to attend as a guest in my capacity as the Commonwealth Minister for Housing. The appropriate source to be approached if a copy of the minutes is required is the Tasmanian. Minister for Housing, who convened and chaired the Conference. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As was the case when a reply was provided to question No.127 (Hansard, 12th May 1970, page 2033), it is assumed that the reference to so-called rationing schemes' relates to changes in War Service Homes arrangements implemented in 1951 and 1962 to ensure that the funds appropriated for War Service Homes were used as far as possible for the provision of homes in accordance with the purpose - of the Scheme rather than to improve the position of those already owning a home. These changes were: 
In 1951, the suspending of advances for the discharge of an existing mortgage on a home already owned by the applicant except where the mortgage or charge was arranged with prior approval or in special cases of grave hardship; and 
in 1962, the limiting of additional advances to the provision of essential extra accommodation and the installation of basic utility services. 
As indicated in the reply to Question No. 127, any estimate of the present cost of re-introducing the forms of assistance suspended in 195,1 and 1962 must necessarily be tentative because of the many variables involved. These variables include the purposes for which additional loans will be provided under any change in arrangements, the amount of assistance available and the number of applications received. Based on an estimate of the number of persons who might now seek to avail themselves of advances for the purposes mentioned above, the cost of re-introducing the forms of assistance suspended in 1951 and 1962 is now estimated at $ 17.5m in the first full year. The estimate provides for a reduction in the demand for assistance for the purposes mentioned because of a decline in the number of persons affected by any change in arrangements. 
Education: Tertiary Entrance Examination Project  (Question No. 6111)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
When, did his Department inaugurate the Tertiary Entrance Examination Project and what progress has been made on it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Some people, because of their occupations or for other reasons, do not acquire their first matrimonial homes until after they reach the age of 36 years. The Home Savings Grant Scheme is designed to encourage and assist young people to acquire their first homes and, in that context, the present age eligibility is regarded as reasonable. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Will up to$4m be made available now specifically to assist the Brisbane City Council bus services as the Minister promised and as he was reported by Alderman Jones to have promised at a meeting of the South Queensland Roads Federation in Brisbane on Friday, 26 April 1974? Was the promise, reported to have been made at that meeting, consequent upon an earlier conference between the Minister and Alderman Jones in Canberra in the first days of April this year? 
I rise because of the words which have been uttered by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  concerning my very good friend the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  Some of the charges the Minister has made against the honourable member are quite unfair and untrue. The honourable member for Griffith presented a case about which he felt very strongly. He presented that case in a very balanced manner and without venom and bitterness. There would not be a person in this chamber who would not agree with his proposition. It was certainly not fair and not correct to charge the honourable member in the matter of his relations with his former secretary. That charge happens to be not correct. There are other matters which the honourable member for Griffith, given the manliness which is his, would disclose to no one. So I leave that where it is. It is very regrettable that such a matter was raised in this chamber. 
The honourable member for Griffith has raised one or two issues which are quite important and which I know the Minister for Services and Property will answer because he is a man who has sought to do a great deal for members. As one who was out of this place for 16 or 18 months, a short period of time, I know that the Minister has sought to do a great deal for members in this place and especially for private members. But one would ask that that does not blind him from looking at a number of the points which have been raised by the honourable member for Griffith. The honourable member feels deeply concerning the matter of seniority. I had previously raised it with the Minister, and I understand that he will look at the principle of seniority. I would think that if he reads the words that were uttered concerning this matter as they are recorded in Hansard he will examine them in the way in which the honourable member for Griffith has presented his case - with a sense of decency, with a sense of justice, without any venom and without any bitterness. 
You are being quite unfair, unjust and incorrect. I say that even though you happen to come from the famed western suburbs of Sydney. The honourable member for Griffith did not deserve the attack that was made on him. He is a man not of the type that he has been alleged by the Minister for Services and Property. He deserves better than has been meted out to him in the reply of the Minister tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Mouse  adjourned at  11  p.m. 
It is my pleasure to follow the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in this place. However much I should resist doing so, there are one or two comments he has made to which I would like to address some remarks in the few minutes which are available to me. I was intrigued at his first proposition which seemed to me to be an extraordinary one. He stated quite clearly that productivity had no effect on inflation and that there was no relationship between the two. I feel that he is not operating in the same Party as the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who is now the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The whole principle of the proposition of the Minister for Labor and Immigration concerning indexation is to utilise the process of indexation as a substitute for the cost pressures of wages due and the subsequent effects on price rises. 
Having argued that point the Minister says that after the process of legitimate, constant wage prices is pursued there can be an argument concerning productivity. The certainty in which the argument concerning productivity is pursued is the certainty in which legitimate rise in living standards can be allowed. So the 2 gentlemen do not seem to be operating within the same party. The honourable member for Gellibrand should have a look at the philosophy of his own Minister. 
The second point which intrigued me is that the only condition in which productivity would have no effect on inflation is when the overall aim of economic management is not to ensure constantly rising living standards. The third point in which the honourable member indulged - it is worth dwelling on for just a few minutes because the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  dwelt on it also - is the effect of the consumer price index in measuring the costs which can undermine real living standards. While the honourable member for Gellibrand was a famed advocate of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, I understand, in previous national wage cases, he is concerned that the consumer price index in a number of areas does not measure the prices which it has the duty of measuring adequately and correctly. I throw into that area one or two other propositions concerning the consumer price index. It is my understanding that as a cost of living measure the consumer price index is now totally inadequate. It makes significant errors on at least 5 counts. If the honourable member for Gellibrand is going to be concerned about this, I would remind him that on all simple available evidence the consumer price index considerably and seriously understates rises in the cost of living on those 5 counts. 
As I have only 7 minutes available to me I shall not discuss those 5 counts but I shall mention one of them because the former Postmaster-General, who is now Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  is sitting at the table. I have been puzzled at the fact that the consumer price index, since late 1972, has shown no increase in the index points attributable to charges of the Postmaster-General's Department. 
There were substantial increases in a number of fields last year and they affected great segments of the Australian community. 
1 do not know whether you receive bulletins or paper through the mail. 
The Minister receives these bulletins through the mail and he knows that there have been legitimate rises in certain areas and they have not been measured as part of legitimate cost of living rises as measured by the consumer price index. 
The Minister must be talking to different consumers from those with whom we come into contact. The Prices Justification Tribunal was one of the creatures spawned by the Government during 1973. It was spawned in circumstances in which it was to be a principal instrument in the control of inflation in Australia. The simple fact is that it has not controlled inflation within Australia. It has not brought about a significant abatement in the rate of costprice rises which themselves undermine living standards. Living standards today, as well as living standards tomorrow, depend not only on what is produced today, tomorrow or next year; they also depend upon the rates of productivity increases which occur within a community. As the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has pointed out, the Prices Justification Tribunal, as a principal instrument for bringing about abatement in the rate of inflation, has to fail in that total task in a situation where there is negative productivity growth in Australia. Negative productivity growth cannot secure real increases in living standards from one year to another. In those circumstances the Tribunal has an impossible task of looking both ways - of looking at the areas of private enterprise and at the same time dealing with those matters which come before it as principal ways of abating increases in costs which themselves are the end result of the inflationary process. 
There are two propositions which one would suggest that the Tribunal might examine. I am very well aware of the exigencies of time which which have been placed upon me. It would be appropriate, I suggest, that when the Tribunal recommends any prices at the same time it should try to make a precise calculation of the productivity performances of those companies to which price rises have been awarded. That would fit in quite well with the current program of the Minister for Labor and Immigration, concerning his process of indexation. Where indexation applies and where increases in wages are awarded according to some measure of changes in costs, those companies which have had a significantly great increase in productivity ought to have that significantly great increase in productivity recorded because they demonstrate the price rises that are being avoided. I should like to see some rewards given to those organisations. 
The second point which might be examined by the Tribunal is one that is appropriate to a government which has an interventionist philosophy of economic management of the economy. Those statutory corporations and public authorities which run services in substantial competition with private enterprise in the field ought to have, in the investigation of applications for price rises from private enterprise organisations, their pricing policies exposed in any intervention before the Tribunal. This would seek not only to keep private enterprise pure - 'that is the way in which this philosophy has been presented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  over a number of years - it would also seek to keep the pricing policies of both public authorities and statutory corporations pure also. One ought to look at one as one ought to look at the other. 
I have 2 minutes left to me. While one would agree that the Tribunal has some difficulties in the way of being an umpire in this field, one has to say quite clearly that it is operating in a field in which more than half the team has not come out of the dressing room. For the Tribunal to be a principal instrument in the abatement of price rises while more than half the team is not on the field - the job which Australians were led to expect it could do in those balmy days of, I think, May 1973  -  is just a legitimate and a clear impossibility. So the Tribunal has to concern itself with increases in prices which are the cause of cost pressures. We want all of those cost pressures examined. We want examined those public authorities in many areas which are themselves causing the most constant and the greatest long-term rises in prices since the last consumer price index figures. The last figures in 1968 would suggest that they ought to be examined. In those circumstances, within a socialist economy with an interventionist centralist socialist government, logic would say that that ought to be the object of the Tribunal. I think my time is up, short as it has been. 
-The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has always had a fertile imagination that has been demonstrated in nothing else but his puerile interjections. Within the constraints of time that are put upon me- they are quite severe- one or two things deserve to be stated concerning the proposed health scheme. When I look at the Government and when I consider the activities of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  over the last 5 years I am forced to accept the simple proposition that their aim has been to go down in Australian history as the gravediggers of Australia's health system. They have become very chirpy because they feel themselves to be within 20 minutes or 25 minutes of achieving that very disastrous goal and title. 
This proposition must also be considered in some other contexts. Nothing that this Government does can be considered other than in a context of power and its propensity to stretch the Constitution to its very limit. When one remembers what was attempted last December, what was attempted in May and what was carried out yesterday, one can see that the Prime Minister and the honourable member for Oxley intend to make themselves the gravediggers of the Australian Constitution. This is certainly true in respect of health services. The commonsense of the Australian people was manifest when the Constitution was first -adopted, because in the matter of health only one power was conferred on the Commonwealth Government- the power of quarantine. When, after the Second World War, the social service amendments were made to the Constitution, further powers in respect of health, hospitals, medical benefits, etc., were conferred upon the Commonwealth Government, but not so as to authorise any form of civil conscription. The spirit of that veto is quite clear. The spirit of that veto is offended when, in terms of economic conscription and financial conscription, the Government, through the honourable member for Oxley and the Prime Minister, attempts to inter our present health system. Economic conscription, with all its compulsion and with all its direction, has always been anathema to the Australian people, but the Government intends to impose it on the Australian people in respect of health. 
The further question should be asked: In what respect does the Government intend to impose this economic conscription upon the Australian people? Earlier this afternoon I listened to the speech of a former Minister for Health, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  and every word in his comments was correct. For 5 years the Prime Minister and his supporters have looked for the vulnerable elements in the Australian health system in order to utilise them as instruments with which to destroy the Australian health system. They have looked for the vulnerable elements in three respects. They have looked for the vulnerable elements in the medical profession; they have looked for the vulnerable elements in respect of hospitals; and they have used the weight of their propaganda and money to make vulnerable the voluntary health services of this nation. Time makes very severe constraints in this respect, but in terms of the medical profession the Prime Minister and his supporters intend to use the weight of the Commonwealth's powers to interpose themselves in every consultation between a doctor and a patient, and it is a weight that can barely be resisted by the people who do not have great organisations behind them. Common sense indicates that this is so. 
The Prime Minister and his supporters have utilised the vulnerable element in respect of hospital services. People who are without great resources and who wish to avail themselves of hospital services will be turned away from the hospitals of their choice. I will illustrate that with one example, and it is quite clear. Who could be more vulnerable in this respect than an expectant mother expecting difficulties in child birth? Who could be more vulnerable than an expectant mother under those circumstances who has paid her contributions to a government insurance fund and has booked into a private maternity hospital? Under the proposed health scheme that payment will be an extra cost on her of several hundred dollars. If her child happens to have difficulties and has to be put in an intensive care ward, and if the hospital cannot juggle that child between a private and a public intensive care ward, that mother will have to pay some further extra hundreds of dollars. Those vulnerable people are the ones who will be induced to move away from the private hospitals of Australia. 
Turning to the third element in respect of the voluntary health funds, accusations of deception upon deception have been laid at their doors for more than 5 years, and there has been no more cruel deception than that 25 per cent of the money paid out by voluntary health funds has in fact been spent on management expenses. They have been clear, unequivocal lies; they have been a series of lies. When one looks at what the Government has done and the context in which it has done it, one sees that the Government's plan of campaign and its tactics do the Government little credit. But of course the Government wants to make a name for itself. It wants to copy the British scheme. When Aneurin Bevan introduced the British scheme he did not know what inflation was. The experiment of the welfare state was something new and its consequences were not appreciated. Aneurin Bevan did this against the background of a tragic and very high rate of unemployment which had existed in his own country for more than a couple of decades. 
-I hope that we have a higher standard of living than they have in the United Kingdom. Every one of those experiences is known in Australia. The economic context in which this scheme is being introduced has 2 elements- high inflation and rising unemployment. I am unable to see in the chamber at the moment the Minister for Labor and Immigration, but we will soon be able to say of him a parody which was said of others almost 20 years ago, namely: 'You will all be cool in Cameron's pool'. 
In the few minutes available to me I would like to descend into a parochialism appropriate to my own State, but it is one that touches nearly 2 million people in this nation. For decades there has been in Queensland a mixture of public and private hospitals which all of the people in that State have supported. In fact, almost 900,000 people in my own State have sought to have the free public hospital system available to them as their own source of treatment. That right is to be taken away, and it is to be taken away by this scheme which has been proposed by the Government. The Government has chosen the vulnerable elements in the private hospitals field, in terms of patients to indicate that they would not be able to pay to go to those hospitals, and in terms of simple benefits which people in Queensland have received and which have been appropriate only to that part of the Commonwealth. Those things will vanish, and it is appropriate to consider that point in a time when Cameron's pool is going to get larger. 
There has been a form of accident benefit or unemployment benefit available to those people in Queensland who were members of funds and who went to a public hospital, in that they received up to $30 a week. This benefit helped many families. Even that is to be taken away under the scheme which is proposed by the Government. Everything that is done by this Government is done in the context of power. In terms of health, which is the most intimate of social services, the Government does not want to put itself in the position of sharing power with anyone else. The people of Australia will regret it if in fact they have this scheme imposed upon them. 
The final indignity with respect to my own State has been the double shuffle and the trickery that have been proposed in respect of Danegeld, an extra amount of money to be given if the State agrees to do away with the free public hospitals. Various extra amounts ranging between $22m and $34m have been promised to the people in my own State if they go quietly and do not object to the plunder of their own free public hospitals system. But the honourable member for Oxley knows, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  knows, and the Prime Minister knows that the way in which interstate finances are organised, unamended at the moment, it is very unlikely that that can be given to Peter without robbing Paul. So the double shuffle and the trickery deserves to be exposed in this respect. 
One is left only with the proposition- a simple proposition in this respect- that the Government and those people who propose this scheme will not be happy until they have the title of the successful gravedigger thrust upon them, and they will not be happy unless they see the body of a healthy, vital, voluntary, supported Australian health services interred. 
-I regret having to bring this matter forward in the Parliament, but I have made repeated efforts during 1973 and 1974 to finalise something which was brought forward in this place by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  who has been informed that I was going to raise a matter relating to him. He said in this Parliament on 12 November 1973, as reported at page 3122 of Hansard: 
He - 
That is me, Kevin Cairns, whom he named-  abused every privilege that he had, including using an employee of the divisional returning officer for Lilley- a poor unfortunate woman whom he got hold of and on whom he used his vicious influence to get her to send out propaganda for him and to send out together with the ballot papers for the postal vote applicant a how-to-vote card for Kevin Cairns, the Liberal candidate for Lilley. 
This was in relation to the election in 1972. He continued: 
Who bore the brunt of the responsibility for what happened? Not Kevin Cairns. He knew nothing about it. He would not be a party to any malpractices in postal vote collections! No. He left it to the poor unfortunate woman who worked in the electoral office to bear the responsibility for actions taken on his behalf and on behalf of his organisation. They were the parties truly responsible for such a vicious and malicious political act. Can a sitting member for Parliament do anything lower than to send out how-to-vote cards through an electoral office in order to try to save one 's political hide? 
Any person reading that would realise that these are very serious allegations. They involve at least 3 people. They involve the electoral officer for the Division of Lilley in 1972; they involve a woman in that electoral office- and there are so few women in that electoral office that the woman referred to can almost be identified as one person; and they certainly involve me. Subsequent to this, through a firm of solicitors I made a request to the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for Queensland to carry out an investigation. A week later, on 19 November, a letter was written by Tully and Wilson, solicitors, to  Mr Weise,  the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for Queensland. I will not go through the whole letter, but this part is worth recording: 
We therefore request on behalf of our client that you be so good as to make an investigation of the above statements,  and advise us in due course of your findings in respect of the following matters:- 
Is there any evidence that one of your employees was coerced or influenced by our client, the then member for Lilley. 
Is there any evidence that our client abused any of his privileges particularly in regard to the allegation of the mis-use of an officer of your Department 
Are you satisfied in your official capacity that the Lilley Poll was conducted in accordance with the requirements of the Act. 
A letter was received from the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for Queensland, indicating that he would carry out an investigation. But he had to be prompted into doing it. A further letter was dispatched to him nearly 2 months later, on 22 January 1 974. That letter concluded: 
Would you be kind enough, as soon as convenient to let us have the results of your examination. 
I will not read all of the letter. A further letter concerning this matter was sent on 13 February 1974. It asked how the investigation, which was to be carried out promptly, was going. It added: 
Our client is willing to assist in any examination you are making by answering any questions you may wish to put to him concerning the allegation. 
We must request therefore, that you be good enough to bring the matter to a determination as soon as possible. 
All the initiative to carry out an investigation was taken on my behalf and at my instigation. Finally, a letter was received from the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for Queensland,  Mr Weise.  The second paragraph, which is at least quite ^determinate and vague, reads: 
I am now able to inform you that upon receiving a complaint of a possible irregularity in postal voting procedures in connection with the 1972 Elections in the Lilley Division, the then Commonwealth Electoral Officer for Queensland notified the Superintendent of Commonwealth Police, Brisbane. The Commonwealth Police have been investigating the matter and have advised that the person responsible for including 'Election Pamphlets' with postal voting material addressed to a person m the Division has not yet been identified. 
I regarded that as an unsatisfactory answer for myself and for the other 2 people who have been accused by the honourable member for Bowman. Consequently, I contacted, again through the firm of solicitors, the superintendent of the Commonwealth Police to whom investigation had been referred. Without reading the totality of the letter and reciting the events that led up to the sending of this letter on 25 March 1 974- over 4 months subsequent to the original allegation being made- I will quote the last part of the letter. It reads: 
By letter dated 14 March last, the Australian Electoral Officer informed us that the Commonwealth Police have been investigating the matter and have advised that the person responsible for including election pamphlets with postal voting material addressed to a person in the Division has not yet been identified. We wish to confirm that our client,  Mr 
Cairns, is willing to assist in any investigation of the allegation against him which is being made, by answering any questions you may wish to put to him concerning the allegation. 
The Commonwealth Electoral Officer was, of course, informed that we had asked the Commonwealth Police to proceed with the investigation, as he had done. That is the last correspondence directed to this matter. But about 9 or 10 days before the double dissolution election on 18 May a sergeant of the Commonwealth Police, whom I do not intend to name, acting on behalf of the Superintendent, telephoned me and indicated that the Commonwealth Police had no evidence whatsoever in relation to this matter. I asked him to inform the Superintendent that we still awaited a reply to the letter which we had sent to him. He also indicated that neither I nor the person making the allegation had been interrogated. I wonder how an investigation can be made of an allegation without at least asking questions of that person who made the allegation. It still boggles my mind. Ten months later now, late September 1974, 1 have had no further communication and no further correspondence. It is not my intention to play politics with this matter but merely to bring forward to the Parliament the nature of events that have occurred. Anybody would agree, and I think anybody must agree, that a very serious allegation has been made. While I was out of this Parliament quite a precise allegation was made and it was done under privilege. It may have been thought that I would not return to this place, but events have decreed otherwise. So I make these comments: I believe the Commonwealth Electoral Office  i  for Queensland has erred in not seeking to clear the names at least of two of his employees who have been named publicly. The employees certainly appear not under their precise names in Hansard but they are easily identified. The integrity of his electoral officers needs to be defended and the integrity of a woman in that office needs to be clarified and, I believe, defended. Thirdly, I want to know how this matter can possibly be finalised without asking the accuser for the evidence on which he must have based those very serious allegations. 
I believe that if a sincere mistake has been made and if it was made due to incorrect information, at least an apology is appropriate. An apology would be accepted and the matter would be left at that. I am not concerned to play politics in this matter or to pursue those who have made certain allegations. But if a person does this he should be man enough at least to admit an error if it has occurred. The honourable member for Bowman was informed that I would raise something in relation to him and the honourable member for Bowman is not here. I do not know how his absence is to be regarded, but I leave to the sense of fairness and sense of integrity of honourable members how it ought to be regarded. But above all, if none of these people were involved, a public reference to their integrity and certainly to my integrity ought to be made. If that were made in terms of an apology- a simple apology without people eating humble pie or being embarrassed- it would be accepted. It is not my intention to scarify any person but merely to get at the truth. If nothing occurs I will continue with my representations to the Commonwealth Police at least to interrogate me and the honourable member for Bowman and to request him to bring forward the evidence on which he has made his most precise and what I regard as quite serious allegations. Anything less than that, I believe, would be unsatisfactory and unbecoming a member of this Parliament. 
I will speak rather gently upon a subject which may have some remote interest in this place. It is concerned with the Grants Commission. The Grants Commission is well known to the House. I believe it was touched upon in a passing manner in a debate which occurred yesterday. The Commission has operated in Australia for more than 40 years. It has been a body which has pursued a most creditable path and has a valuable record. In fact, pre-eminently it has been a body quite unique to Australia. From the early days its task has been to pursue principles of equality between the States. It is often termed 'fiscal equality'. As a testament to its value and as a testament to its respect the Grants Commission has remained in an undisputed position which has been accepted by nearly all State Treasuries and all State Governments throughout its existence except for a short time during the Second World War when there was a famous and colourful Tasmanian Treasurer known as Dwyer-Gray. He waged the last public campaign against the Grants Commission towards the end of the war years. But the Grants Commission has remained in the situation that I have described and it has been respected. The Commission has been responsible for assisting Western Australia and Tasmania to attain positions in which they feel that they are able to withdraw as claimant States before the Commission. All this is a respectable background for a body which is worthy of the respect that has been given to it. 
I am concerned that a new appointment has been made to the Grants Commission. The new appointment- probably to the most complex economic body in Australia- is of a New South Wales judge.  His  name I understand is ElseMitchell a nicely hyphenated name. Judge ElseMitchell has been appointed as  Chairman  of the Commission- as  Chairman  of a body for which he has had no training. He has exhibited no knowledge as to the principles of operation of this body.  His  appointment is in stark contrast to other appointments which have been made to the Commission during the last 8 or 9 years. I believe that his appointment has been a simple mistake. To appoint a man whose expertise is almost wholly in the law to the chairmanship of a most complex body of this type is rather like appointing an accountant to a supreme court. In another way, it is rather like appointing an economist to the High Court of Australia. How would either of those assess the evidence presented before them? How would  His  Honour, who has been appointed as  Chairman  of the Commission to replace a very great man,  Sir Leslie  Melville, assess the very technical evidence presented to that Commission by the Federal Treasury and by State Treasuries?  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, in fact, has not been trained for the job. I do not think that this appointment can pass without my making a reference to it. 
The person to be appointed to such a position needs some training in finance. He needs some understanding of interstate finance and economics. Certainly, he needs to have quite a detailed knowledge of economics.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell has exhibited no knowledge of such matters.  His  appointment, frankly, is a bad mistake. 
What I think is most galling is that his appointment to that body has been brought about at the same time as he has been given the highest status that anybody has ever been given who has been appointed as  Chairman  of the Grants Commission. In a Press release issued by the Special Minister of State, the Minister said that it was the Government's intention that the new  Chairman  should have the same status and privileges as a judge of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. He has less ability and less training yet he has been given higher status than those who have preceded him. Some very famous people have preceded  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell in that position, especially during the last decade. I would not suggest that he is the first lawyer to be appointed to it but since the Grants Commission has become most skilled, especially over the past decade, he should not be appointed. 
A number of States deserve to be very concerned about this appointment, especially those States which remain as claimant States before the Commission. The 2 States to which I refer are South Australia and Queensland. A number of years ago South Australia ceased to be a claimant State. It was in the late 1950s. South Australia decided a little over a decade later to come back to the Commission and it has been well satisfied with the determinations made by the Commission for the benefit of the South Australian Government. The Queensland Government, which is the other claimant State before the Commission these days, has also been well satisfied with its determinations in the past 3 years. An effective $2 5 m by way of advance and completion grants is reported to have been awarded to my State for this year. 
I believe that the appointment of a chairman of this nature places the position of those 2 States at risk. It places all the determinations of the Commission at risk, especially when interstate finance is in a state of turmoil. I mention 3 areas to illustrate my point: Firstly, there are the adjustments for education, the Karmel Committee grants, the disadvantaged school grants and other grants which have changed altogether the way in which money is allocated between States, and which affect the determination of equality between the States for the purposes of the Commission. His Honour has no skill in that area. 
Secondly, in my own State the people have been concerned about health. My own State is concerned with what are purported to be special grants made to it to replace the free public hospital system. It will amount to money being put into one pocket and taken out of another. In other words, it is a matter of taking from Peter to pay Paul. It is the same principle. The  Chairman  of the Grants Commission will not be able to dissect on his own the arguments presented before the Commission. The third point I wish to make concerns the effects of mining operations on the level of the State 's activities whether it is a matter of capital grants, capital loans for railways or the operation of the mines themselves. The fact is that Queensland has been elevated to a very preeminent place among Australian States in terms of its own growth, principally through the feedback effects of its mining operations. In 1972, for example, 3 small open cut mines that employed 3,000 people between them in Queensland were responsible for supporting- this is a conservative estimate- up to 65,000 people. Similar operators have played a most dominant part in the economy of Western Australia. 

 His Honour has given no indication of being able to evaluate the principles of equality concerning royalties, freights and capital expenditure payments by the claimant States as compared with the standard States. All these matters must be placed at serious risk.  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell will have to depend upon others for his advice and for his determinations. A  chairman  of that body which is not an arm of the Treasury ought not to be in that position. 
Hitherto the Australian States could always rest assured that no matter what happened there was an opportunity to appeal to the Commission for justice and for the application of the principle of equality, which has been better preserved in various parts of Australia than in any other country. The operation of that principle and the effect of the judgments that will be made by the Commission will be placed at risk as a result of this appointment. The assurance that the States will receive equal treatment has diminished. I believe that the principle of equality is in the process of passing away. I believe that quite clearly and obviously the appointment of  Mr Justice  ElseMichell as  Chairman  of the Grants Commission places at risk the position of States such as Queensland and South Australia. I believe that when Tasmania returns to the Commission this appointment will place determinations for Tasmania at great risk. Judgments will be made not according to the knowledge of the  Chairman  but according to his lack of knowledge. 
-The capacity for self-delusion on the part of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  is rather beyond belief. The ability to keep on blaming adverse circumstances on those who were in government previously forgets 2 things. It forgets that conditions are worsening in terms of all the economic criteria the further this Government gets away from 1971 and 1972. Everything is worsening. The long and tedious explanation of what inflation is in Australia and what it is not has been given in terms of the consumer price index, but everybody knows that for at least five very valid reasons the consumer price index seriously understates the real rate of inflation in Australia. 
-I was hoping the honourable member was going to engage in some self-examining honesty in respect of this. The implicit price deflator accelerated beyond belief during the last quarters of the 1973-74 financial year and a reversion to the past is not always justified. I was particularly interested in the reference by the honourable member for Gellibrand to full employment, because when John Dedman, the Minister for Post-war Reconstruction, in 1945 introduced the White Paper on full employment in Australia he did not have any excuses. He did not make any alibis. He was clear and unequivocal. The words he uttered on that occasion are very appropriate to Australia today. They were brave, courageous words and were a guarantee. John Dedman said: 
The policy of full employment is the Government's positive contribution to the security of the individual. Full employment spells  opportunity  and opportunity opens the way for achievement At the same time the Government recognises that this needs to be supplemented by social security measures which protect the less  fortunate  from hardship and supplement the standards of thing of those in greatest need. 
-John Dedman. He made no equivocal guarantees in this matter, no alibis and no attempts at self-delusion. What ought to be remembered by the Australian people is that the social contract- it was a social contract- of that day has been broken by this Labor Government. Dedman's policies for curing full employment are now a little out of date. They were envisaged only in terms of public authority expenditure. Over the years a much more lively and vibrant private enterprise sector of the economy has grown up. It is easier, therefore, in these days to secure full employment with reasonable price stability than it was when the guarantee was given in 1 945. 
That is merely a speck on the market compared with what the Government is doing now. If the honourable member listens I will illustrate my point. An unalterable social obligation was made but it was to be done never by excluding common sense. It was never to be done by doubting what in fact full employment was. I am not going to go through the range of percentages of those registered for unemployment as a proportion of the work force to illustrate my point. What is quite clear now is that we are sliding further into grave unemployment and sliding more steeply than has ever been recorded in Australia since World War II. Unemployment is sliding at such a rate that it is far in excess of the unemployment which occurred in 1952. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  well remembers those days. He will remember the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden introducing a budget in those days- the famous credit squeeze. That credit squeeze looks like a gentle embrace compared with what has been proposed in this Budget. In the first 2 months of the financial year in 1 952 an extra 20,000 people were put out of work. In the first few months of the new financial year in 1961 an extra several thousand became unemployed. This year not only has the seasonal pattern been broken but also in the first 2 months of this financial year 30,000 people were unemployed. One cannot evade that data, regardless of the statistics. But in all this, a deal of courage is appropriate. A lot of academic economists and journalists have dealt with this matter. I think some credit must be given to Kenneth Davidson who writes for the Melbourne 'Age' who, with a good deal of courage, has outlined the alternatives which are available to the Government.  His  judgment, based on facts and reason, has led him to certain conclusions. 
-I am told that Eccles was in that league also. I acknowledge that fact. In times such as this inflation is the responsibility of all, including a government and an opposition. The Opposition does not believe that we should make political capital out of the fact that the present Government is making a mess of the economy. The Opposition does not take that attitude and I would not be a party to it. I disagree with some of the propositions that have been put forward. It has been stated quite categorically that Australia is in a state of stagflation. 'Stagflation' is a lovely word- it brings to mind the words 'depression' and 'recession'. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  used another word yesterday in a very fine speech. He used the word 'slumpflation'. Now we cast another word on the waves which I think might more precisely prescribe the situation. Australia is in a unique economic situation. It is one of negflation, which is described in this way: We are in a state of absolute decline in production growth. In the last quarter of the last financial year, at current prices, non-farm products decreased by $490m. In fact, during that last quarter there was actually a negative productivity growth. However uncertain the measurements are, it was certainly worse than minus 2 per cent. We have not experienced that before. Negative productivity, negative growth, together with seriously rising prices and the steepest slide into unemployment ever measured- all those things add up to negflation. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his latest analysis of the problems- he has given a variety of analyses- said quite clearly and quite correctly that we have to work our way out of it. Australia has to work its way out of it, but it cannot work its way out of it with rising living standards unless measurements of productivity are the key. There is an old saying in terms of living standards and economics that there is no such thing as a free lunch. If somebody is to be given something by the Government it comes from someone else, whether it is from corporations, from income tax, from people who save- from wherever you like. In terms of rising living standards over any long period of time there is no such thing as a free lunch. The only way it can be engineered is through raising real rates of growth in productivity, and negflation does not allow that to occur. I believe that is appreciated by many in the Government at this time. Whether they have the will to deal with it or whether they do not is a matter for their own consciences. 
The present state of the economy is illustrated in another way, a curious way. The vital catalytic elements that are needed in an economy to push living standards up are not in fact growing. Last week a production analysis of 34 items was put out by the Commonwealth Statistician. That preliminary assesment for August made it quite clear that of the 34 items production of 27 had declined. It is a long time since that has occurred. But much more interestingly it is appropriate to ask which items are showing an increase of a most persistent and constructive nature. The items which showed the greatest increase for several months under this Government were three, chocolate lollies, beer and cigarettes. I like pleasure as much as anyone else does, and I am sure that the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who is sitting at the table does. But in terms of common sense and in terms of the production of basic wealth in the community through which living standards rise, is it a proud thing to say that the most constantly advancing production in the ecomomy is in chocolate lollies, beer and cigarettes? Common sense rejects that proposition, as it ought to reject the proposition. 
So for 3 reasons the economy is decreasing its production in an absolute sense. It decreased its productivity in the last quarter by about 2.5 per cent, and increases in production are not occurring in the areas in which they should. Years ago accusations used to be made that Australia had a milk bar economy because it was being propped up by some public investment. This expression was invented, I understand, by the late Professor Copland. We do not have a milk bar economy; we have gone beyond that today. We have an artificial ersatz coffee economy, and that will not secure constantly rising standards of living. 
One thing has to be said in honesty about the Budget. If this analysis is correct, including the analysis of the last quarter of the 1973-74 financial year, it was appropriate for the Government to introduce a Budget which was somewhat expansionary. That is appropriate. It was a Budget which decided that the expansionary elements in the economy were to be developed in the public authority sector, and were not to be developed in the private enterprise sector. It is fair to say that for an interventionist government, a socialist government, it was according to its philosophy. I do not argue with the expansive elements of the Budget but I do argue about the effects that the Government's interventionist attitude with respect to the economy is having on the right of the people to have full employment without inflation and real rising standards of living. 
I return to where I began: Full employment is an article of faith in the Australian economy, and it ought to be an article of faith. I well remember a campaign waged years ago in 1949 wherein we were accused of trying to create Professor Hytten's pool of unemployment. The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  no doubt through his researches, would remember it; he would be too young to have experienced it. One well remembers accusations made about a former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. Honourable members will remember that it used to be said: 'You will all be cool in Menzies ' pool '. I am almost moved to tears when I remember how two or three years ago the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who lately has been promoted, was concerned that under the Liberal Party Government in 1971 and 1972 a lot of married women were going to work. He looked at the social effects of this movement. At that time he said: 'What is greater for a young person growing up than to have the affection and care of his mother?' He indicated that his own gentle nature derived from the care of his mother for him. Accusing the Liberal-Country Party Government at that time- the honourable member for Mackellar will remember this, as he does nearly everything- the honourable member for Hindmarsh asked: What would be more disastrous than for such a situation to be deliberately engineered by a government? 
The illustration used by the honourable member for Hindmarsh remains in my mind. He referred to a child who returns from school, rushes into the front door of his home and, as he said, throws his bag on the floor- that is what happens in his household and it might happen elsewhere. The child then rushes into the kitchen and says: 'Mum, can I have a piece of bread and jam?' But mum is not there because she has been sent out to work by the Liberal-Country Party Government. What does that child do today? He comes home from school and is concerned for his mother's love. He throws his bag on the floor or the bed, whichever it is, rushes into the kitchen and says: 'Can I have a piece of bread and jam?'  His  mother says: 'No, you cannot'. The child says: 'Why?' She replies: 'Because your father is out of work. He is getting cool in Cameron's pool.' 
He is liable to change his attitude according to circumstances. In these present circumstances an Opposition has a responsibility to assist. It should not merely play the alternatives of inflation or unemployment- no matter how academics might argue otherwise, there is a certain effect between the two- one against the other, in order to gain political advantage. Responsibility in these areas has to be based on fair judgment and knowledge. I am not one of those interested in making events worse just to gain a political advantage. I say that as a person in the Opposition who holds the most marginal and dicey seat in my State. In difficult times like this, one of the saddest things to do is to read the debates during the last depression years. On that occasion the Opposition, I believe not due to ill will but to a lack of knowledge, refused the famous Treasurer Theodore's fiduciary notes issue legislation. That was a mistake. But the Opposition today does not adopt an incorrect and irresponsible attitude. No body would want to repeat that kind of history. I certainly would not want to do so. 
I want to return to something a little out of context. It concerns the monetary situation in my own State. It has now been disclosed that a quite serious run has been generated as a result of pessimism about the circumstances of building societies in Queensland. That run has to be considered in the circumstance that a few days ago the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  indicated that he was not interested in assuming controls, which he can now legitimately assume, with respect to building societies- presumably because he did not judge them to be sufficiently liquid to be able to direct the investment of their assets. But in today's circumstances that kind of excuse is unsatisfactory. 
The Financial Corporations Act has made it quite clear that, even though it is only an enabling Act, this Federal Government wants to take a direct interest in the activities of fringe financial corporations and certainly building societies in Queensland. I suggest that the Reserve Bank- even though it has never defined its powers in this respect; it always works by gende persuasion and by talk- has the powers of lender of last resort to act with respect to those building societies, and has those powers now. I believe that it ought to indicate that it has those powers. Section 8 of subsection (c) of the Reserve Bank Act reads: 
The Bank has such powers as are necessary for the purposes of this Act and, in particular, and in addition to any other powers conferred on it by this Act, has power . . . to lend money. 
It has power to lend money to corporations such as building societies. 
I ask the Acting Treasurer whether in those discussions that occurred between the Government and the Reserve Bank, the Bank has been explicitly instructed not to utilise that power with respect to building societies which are concerning many people in my own State. If the Government contends that it has not that power, it certainly has the power under regulations which it could bring down pursuant to the Reserve Bank Act and possibly even in relation to the Financial Corporations Act. The incredible thing is that this interventionist Government, this socialist Government, that has sought to intervene nearly everywhere else in the economy where it has a right to intervene and where it is foolish to intervene, refrains from taking action under this section in an area where I believe it has explicit and clear power to act. I ask the Acting Treasurer to reply to this matter during the hours that remain of the Budget debate. 
This matter concerns many people. It concerns many honourable members from my own State and throughout Australia. There are hundreds of thousands of people with modest savings in these corporations. The Government should, under the reference powers or the discussion powers it has with the Reserve Bank, direct the Bank to utilise what authority it has under section 8 subsection (c) of the Reserve Bank Act to prop up those institutions and make it clear to people that their savings are not placed at risk. It has a little time in which to do it but it has the opportunity during several hours of debate tonight to indicate that it is interested not only in devaluation but also in the stability of the currency available to ordinary modest citizens of Australia with modest savings accounts. 
-The building society movement has developed since the late 1950s and has surprised very many Australians. In the late 1950s  Dr Coombs  wondered, appreciatively, at the growth in its strength and the support for its activities during its early years. In the years subsequent to that statement the societies have developed and have been trusted by the Australian people because they are strong and because requirements have been put on them with respect to their own asset structures. It is common knowledge that in one State of Australia, Queensland, concern has developed among a number of people for a variety of reasons which has caused them to attempt to take or to take their deposits out of the building societies. That is not necessary. But there is also a very grave obligation on the part of the Government to see that these societies are supported. It is a very grave obligation because, certainly in Queensland, which is the State concerned, the building societies have fulfilled a role with respect to the requirements of housing finance made vacant by the withdrawal of the savings banks, especially the Commonwealth Savings Bank, in regard to their own requirements to support housing in Australia and in Queensland. 
This is essential background. It is to be argued that to the extent that they have fulfilled that role, especially in the past year, there is upon the Reserve Bank and upon the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  a very grave moral, and I believe on the Reserve Bank a statutory, obligation to accord the societies direct support- not statements, which are indirect support. Let me illustrate. During the past year in Queensland the Commonwealth Savings Bank which was set up with one of its principal aims being to assist small borrowers, especially with respect to housing, has not operated with its funds in the best interests of its own customers. In fact, over the year the Commonwealth Savings Bank lent an average of only 26 per cent of its assets for housing purposes. During the same period it went into the bond market to an unprecedented extent in supporting Commonwealth Government bonds and effectively attempting to prop up the bond market; in fact, to indicate that there was a demand for bonds when the demand was slackening. The annual report of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation contains one very significant sentence on page 34, which reads: 
Existing monetary requirements are such that banks hold large amounts of Australian Government securities. 
Existing requirements dictated to the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, and especially to the 
Savings Bank, through the Reserve Bank, that it should support the bond market to an extent which it had never previously done. The Commonwealth Savings Bank was not set up to support the bond market. Other banks engage in monetary management, but the Commonwealth Savings Bank does not have that role. At the same time private savings banks increased their assets in housing and in fact divested themselves of bonds. 
I give that information by way of background. In what way does this involve the building societies? It involves the building societies, especially in Queensland, where there has been a very great demand for housing due to the high rate of growth and development. In the year ended 30 June and into July the building societies lent an average of 27 per cent of all the funds available for housing in that State; that is from the trading banks, finance corporations building societies and so on. Those are the major lenders. The savings banks lent an average of only 10 per cent of the funds available for housing in that State. 
Since the Commonwealth Savings Bank, which is much closer to the Reserve Bank in responses to its dictates than are other banks, has a dominant role in that State, just as it has a dominant role in New South Wales, the building societies quite clearly have fulfilled their purpose and have taken up a slack which has been imposed on the banks, certainly through the Reserve Bank and, I would say, certainly through the discussions which take place between the Treasurer and the Reserve Bank. 
Under these circumstances, therefore, when there have been reports of a run on the building societies, even though they are strong and have a very high ratio of liquid assets, the Reserve Bank has a quite special obligation under section 8 of the Reserve Bank Act. Section 8 reads: 
The Bank has such powers as are necessary for the purpose of this Act, and, in particular, and in addition to any other powers conferred on it by this Act, has power- 
to receive money on deposit; 
to borrow money; 
to lend money . . . 
That proposition involves the Reserve Bank directly with building societies under these circumstances. Section 10 of the Reserve Bank Act states that the Board has the duty within its powers to operate its own policies- I will not go through this in detail- and to operate them in such a way that they contribute to 3 matters, the first of which is the stability of the currency of Australia and the third of which is the economic prosperity and welfare of the people of Australia. Those principles ought to guide the Reserve Bank now in terms of its relations with the Queensland building societies. I believe that, with the unreasoning fear that develops, the Reserve Bank has a direct obligation to give support in this area. There should not be indirect statements, such as we heard from the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  last night when he talked about the trading banks lending a sympathetic ear with respect to support for building societies. It ought to be a direct obligation. There also ought to be a direct statement from the Treasurer or the Acting Prime Minister of this country indicating those points. 
I believe that the Reserve Bank, were it not to be inhibited by this Government, would give that direct support- I have no precise reason for stating that- in its own common-sense judgment of what is appropriate for the economy. It also ought in those circumstances to announce quite directly that it will be a lender of last resort with respect to these institutions. After all, by doing so it will be doing a sound and very great job for the people who have their savings in these bodies. It would certainly be against the best interests of the people for the Reserve Bank to refrain from its obligation and to do anything foolish. That means, basically, that it has a pre-eminent obligation in these circumstances to restore confidence. I hope that that will be done. I think it should be done. If common sense prevails it will be done, especially as there is a moral obligation on the Bank to help those sources of funds which over the past year have stepped in to take up the artificial slack developed as a result of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation's and Commonwealth Savings Bank's activities during the past year. 
I want to take the statement by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  at its face value and forget party politics completely. So I refer him to clause 5 which sets out the proposed new section 133A (5) dealing with the power of the Registrar. I listened to the Minister's words during an earlier explanation this evening in which he expressed very great concern that State industrial tribunals would have a modicum of significant power left to them. Taking his offer at its face value- one could do nothing other than that when one looks at that gentle, caressing, Celtic countenance of the Minister for Labor and Immigration- I would suggest that proposed new section 133A (5) gives almost total power to the Registrar of the Federal court. Almost no power is left to the registrars of any of the State tribunals, so I would suggest that the Minister might consider amending the Bill in the other place by altering sub-section (5) of proposed section 133A to read: 
The Registrar may grant to an association or organisation exemption from this section or any provision of this section other than the last preceding sub-section on the ground that its rules make adequate and reasonable provision for its funds, including branch funds, having regard to its functioning under this Act and its participation in any State system of industrial conciliation and arbitration. 
I know that the Minister would agree that Federal organisations and State branches guard their funds zealously. There are many examples of this in the past, expecially with State branches. While it may appear that some authority is given in this provision for funds to remain where the State organisation might require them to remain, the sub-section as now drafted gives an unequivocal, undiluted and overwhelming power to the Federal Registrar. I ask the Minister to consider my suggestion in the spirit in which it is proposed. 
-I refer to clause 14 of the Bill by which it is proposed to amend section 147 of the principal Act. The burden of my interest is related to the previous case which I put to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Earlier the Minister made it quite clear when he referred to clause 9 of the amending legislation that he was concerned that some authority and some autonomy be retained in a branch of an organisation. Clause 9 reads in part:  . . . shall be such as to provide for the autonomy of a branch in matters affecting members of the branch only and matters concerning the participation of the branch in any State industrial conciliation and arbitration system. 
That was a flag within the Minister's concern to ensure that there was some autonomy. When I look at clause 14 1 am concerned in the same way that the State authorities should have some significant power in respect of jurisdiction. Clause 14 (2) of the Bill proposes that the jurisdiction of the Court under sections 140, 141 and 144- the famous sections- and Part IX is exclusive of the jurisdiction, or any similar jurisdiction, of a State industrial authority. That seems to take away almost any significant power which a State industrial authority would have because those sections of the Act which would be excluded from State jurisdiction cover such things as the disallowance of rules, the performance of rules, applications for membership and disputed elections. I merely ask the Minister to consider proposing an amendment to this effect: On the assumption that there is only one organisation involved, if a member has made application to the State authority he should be enabled to go through with the application in the State jurisdiction. In other words, if at the same time an application was made to the Federal court it would not displace the application to the State court. 
So the type of amendment which I would hope that the Minister would consider between now and when the debate takes place elsewhere would be an amendment to replace proposed new section 147 (2) with this kind of proposition: Once proceedings in matters in which the court has jurisdiction under sections 140, 141, 144 and Part IX- that is the 4 sections to which the present clause refers- and to which an organisation is a party have been commenced in a State tribunal of competent jurisdiction by a member of that organisation the State tribunal shall have exclusive jurisdiction in these proceedings. In other words, in a sense it may be a case of first in best dressed. This would guarantee that once a member has commenced proceedings in the State tribunal they will not be displaced because there is jurisdiction elsewhere. In other words, to take away from the State authority any competency in those areas is to take almost everything from it. I suggest that the Minister, in those matters where proceedings have been first commenced in a State jurisdiction which has competency, may consider leaving competency in those areas and not permit them to be displaced. I ask the Minister to consider that proposition. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It is short. Without the effective direction of labour under his RED or NEAT schemes or the dole, will he guarantee full employment to the Australian work force, including school leavers, by March-April next year? 
-During these Estimates debates there is not time to engage in a political controversy across the chamber, but one thing should be said- there is no particular courage on the part of a member of the Government to set up a stalking horse as to the cause of difficulty in the economy at present. I will deal with this aspect in a moment. I have been appalled and offended by the alacrity with which a number of honourable members set up the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Department of the Treasury as the stalking horse in this respect, use them as the whipping boy and credit them as being responsible for all the faults in the Australian economy. This is unjust and unfair and it has been done continually with respect to people who are in many ways defenceless. I have known the Treasurer for a long time and it is not within his nature to indulge in this kind of activity which should be desisted from by men of principle and men of character. I leave it at that. 
I refer to those parts of the Estimates which are the province of the Treasurer and especially to the office of the Commonwealth Statistician which is to be removed from his jurisdiction. I do not support that proposition. I do not look on it with unalloyed support, but there it is. In the 8 minutes remaining to me I shall refer to the latest release of data from the Commonwealth Statistician and to the consumer price index. It has been stated by a number of people that the real rate of inflation in Australia today is 25 per cent. According to the Statistician, the real rate of inflation, if one does the simple multiplication by four, would be about 20 per cent. I do not want to go into the techniques of calculating it but I put the proposition that of its nature the consumer price index in a socialist economy becomes increasingly irrelevant as a reflection of real changes of costs to Australian homes and Australian households. I have been led to this conclusion because rates of inflation calculated according to the consumer index have differed increasingly from rates of inflation which can be interpreted from quarterly national income account figures with all the uncertainties that there are, so I have asked myself this question: Why has this increasing discrepancy occurred? I think it has occurred for one simple reason. The consumer index is an index which covers market prices of goods which are bought in shops and in the normal places of buying those goods. A socialist economy intervenes in the determination of those prices by a variety of measures and market price measures have become increasingly relevant to reflect real rates of inflation. Therefore I make the principle-I think it can be substantiatedthat the consumer price index as a measure of inflation becomes increasingly irrelevant in an interventionist social economy and one ought to be aware of that situation. It is for that reason that I suggest that the rate of inflation in Australia today is something like 25 per cent. 
I would suggest that the index makes errors and will make increasing errors on at least 5 counts in the market price of goods. I will indicate them. For example, when there is an alteration in the rate of taxation deductions for education this raises the real price of goods such as fares for children, the cost of goods, the cost of apparel, clothing and uniforms. It raises the real cost of those items to those homes in which those items have to be bought, yet the price which is measured by the Statistician in compiling the index is not altered. I believe that to this extent over coming months while the cost of the reduction in the education allowance will to many families represent an extra $100 a year that increases in burden will not be measured according to the technique presently employed. I put this point to the Committee so that it might consider what should be done. 
I put to the Committee another one or two propositions which are appropriate. It is a fact that the consumer index is only a capital city index. It fails to measure many areas of the Australian community. To many areas of the Australian community- the non-metropolitan areas of Australia- costs have been deliberately loaded. When in 3 States- Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania -the consumer index is utilised to measure the rate of inflation, that index can understate the rates very gravely with respect to those 3 States. Another point I find inexplicable in the latest details released by the Statistician concerns the cost of PostmasterGeneral's Department charges- postal and telephone charges. For 2 years now the costs of those items in the index have remained unchanged, yet there is no person in this chamber who could say that even before the present Budget there had not been a real increase in costs of a variety of items for which the Postmaster-General's Department has been responsible. However, since 1972 the index points have remained unaltered for those items. This is no reflection on the Statistician but it does indicate that when there are marked interferences in prices, where there are direct or indirect taxation interferences in the actual costs to households or when selected items are increased in cost, grave distortions can occur in the compilation of the index and in that compilation so far as it reflects the cost to Australian homes and Australian households. 
I mention one further point which is worth bearing in mind. I believe that new measures have to be adopted if the Government's compulsory health insurance scheme is brought into operation in the attempt to substitute a compulsory health tax for a voluntary health payment. When one looks at the residual items that will have to be met by particular consumers it should be remembered that a compulsory tax of this nature is not measured by the index whereas a voluntary payment, and especially that part of the voluntary payment which is unfunded, has to be calculated by the Statistician in the compilation of the index. This all adds to the point that I believe that the Minister who still has some influence in these areas ought to redouble his efforts to see that a proper and correct household expenditure survey is conducted. I know he has had this in mind for some time but this factor is becoming increasingly important and we need to know where we are in an increasingly socialist economy. The costs to householders in that part of the economy fail to be measured by the precise measures which are currently utilised. The consumer index, of its nature and without any reflection on the operations of the Statistician, has to be in error in respect of these matters. 
I make one passing comment which may be political. I have been amazed that in the campaign for wage indexation the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, who is not a strong man but merely responds to the forces behind him, has not referred to and made a major campaign of the failure of the consumer index, on which indexation is proposed to be based, to reflect the real cost for the wage and salary earners he purports to represent. I hope these matters will be looked at. I hope the Treasurer will look at them because the nature of the Australian economy today gives rise to a situation where people do not know precisely the areas in which they are travelling, do not know the path of costs which they are traversing and have had put upon them- if only they knew this- a consumer price index misleading error as to the costs which they have to meet in looking after Australian homes and Australian households. Certainly this applies to all people in this country who depend upon wages and salaries. 

 -Mr Speaker, the text of this matter of public importance has been very carefully chosen. It is related to a 30-year guarantee. It is not related to a guarantee that is made in the House in one year and broken the next year. I suggest to the House that the most solemn pledge that can be made in this chamber to the Australian people is the pledge to maintain full employment. On 30 May 194S such a pledge was made to the Australian people. It was made in this House and it was made on behalf and with the authority of the Prime Minister of the day, John Curtin. The pledge was quite clear and unequivocal. The words in which that pledge was introduced to this House need to be recapitulated. They are immensely significant. The Minister at the time, John Dedman, speaking on behalf of John Curtin stated: 
The world is well on the way to the acceptance of this profound truth, that the welfare of all the people in all lands depends primarily on full employment. This White Paper is an affirmation by the Government of Australia that it intends to pursue that policy with the utmost energy and determination. 
That guarantee has been broken. It is being broken today because, in the words of the White Paper, it is unequivocal. I will quote two sentences from the White Paper which are significant. The first is: 
Full employment is a fundamental aim of the Commonwealth Government. The Government believes that the people of Australia will demand, and are entitled to expect, full employment. 
When referring to unemployment- the Government in those days had no illusions about the evils of unemployment- the White Paper stated: 
Unemployment is an evil from the effects of which no class in the community and no State in the Commonwealth can hope to escape unless concerted action is taken. 
That action has not been taken. The 30th anniversary of the making of those statements in that Paper will be celebrated in 7 months time. I do not believe that that occasion and the foreshadowing of that occasion should be allowed to pass without some comment. But why did that White Paper, and why did John Curtin with bis authority in those days, pledge full employment for Australia? He did it for the highest reason, which is simply that a nation and an economy exist to serve its people. There is nothing that so debases human spirit and so breaks human spirit as the inability for wage earners, for those with responsibility and for those who want to work in the community, to find that work and that employment. 
It is more than inflation; it is more than matters of productivity. These are matters concerning human spirit itself. The lack of employment is destructive of the best aspirations of human nature. It debases and denigrates human nature. I believe that for the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who has a smile creasing his face, to contemplate the situation in Australia today for which he is responsible without any apparent concern is for him to commit the gravest fault against the memory of his own Party, but more significantly against his obligations to the Australian people. That pledge has a history that goes back further than 30 years. It derives from the incredible mistakes that were made during the 1930-1932 period when, due to the unfortunate adoption of economic policies that increased unemployment, the situation was exacerbated so grievously. So it is not an agreement of 30 years that has been broken; this agreement was forged out of over 40 years experience in this Parliament and in this nation. It is appropriate, therefore, to ask: What precisely has happened? What are the facts? I do not want to bore the House and I shall not bore the House with a recitation of numbers and statistics. The issue is much too important to do that, but it is appropriate to advert to one or two aspects of the data. Since the end of June this year there has been the greatest downhill slide in employment opportunities ever experienced in this nation. At the last estimate Australia's rate of unemployment had not reached its highest level in Australia's history, although today, on 23 October 1974, it could well be the greatest ever measured in Australia. 
What are those employment opportunities that have gone? Over a period of  2lA  months 50,000 employment opportunities have been sacrificed. That is something not to contemplate with equanimity but that is stating the problem in a negative form. In a positive form what does it mean? It means that the obligation of this Government to secure full employment by the middle of next year has been broken. Last Thursday in this House I was astounded with the Minister's reply to a question I asked on this subject. I asked whether without the effective direction of Labor he would guarantee full employment in this nation in 5 to 6 months time- by next April. His answer was an unblushing no; he would not. And that is a Minister who is presumed to travel in the tradition of those who made the pledges to this Parliament and to this nation. No, he will not guarantee full employment opportunities in Australia - 
-What happened then were mere flea bites compared to what is happening now. The old dog barks backwards but he still has a bit of a woof in him, has he not? Our task today is to seek the truth and to seek an assurance from the Minister that he will abide by his pledge. He has done much more than just not creating employment opportunities; what he has done is transfer to the public sector the freedom of choice of people to seek employment. The words of the Budget speech are pregnant with significance on this occasion. One sentence which has been quoted over and over deserves to be quoted on this occasion. It states: 
The expansion in the public sector contained in this Budget is designed to take up the slack emerging in the private sector. 
That can be painted in terms of material resources, capital and so on. But it means much more than that; it means that the expansion of employment opportunities which people would seek in the private sector will not be given to them unless they go to public authorities, and even then, if they go to public authorities there is no guarantee as to what will happen in 6 months time. For that the Minister deserves to have very sound and strong condemnation heaped upon him in this chamber. I suggest that the Minister ought to qualify and make clear his own attitude to these problems. We know that he has proposed a number of schemes such as his RED scheme and his NEAT scheme. But in the words of his great friend, Edgar Williams, who I presume wrote the headline for the 'Australian Worker', we would hope that his RED scheme would not become a NEAT way of introducing people to the dole. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Nothing that has been said should be taken as an indication that I think the Minister for Labor and Immigration or the Government looks with pleasure upon the present employment situation. In view of everything the Minister for Labor has said over the years, his whole being must revolt against what is happening at the present time. It ought to revolt against what is happening at the present time. Whether it is happening with his knowledge or whether it is happening with his active support, we know that he wants full employment. His campaigns over the years have been to ensure full employment in Australia. But while testifying to the Minister's goodwill and testifying to the Minister's good intention, when a chasm is opening underneath a government and, because of his position, the Minister for Labor, there is no point in his continuing to look skywards without looking to where the country is going. There is no point in being ignorant of the depths to which those who are unemployed and have little prospects of employment are being condemned. 
I want to say to the Minister that any scheme that he proposes which is designed economically, through his own Department or through industrial organisations, to relieve unemployment has to receive the support of this side of the House. It will receive my own support. I am very well aware that during the depths of the Depression, wittingly or unwittingly the attitudes of the Opposition caused unemployment for much of the 1930s to be worse than it would otherwise have been. No party and no member of the Parliament ought to contemplate repeating that situation. But the chasm is there and I ask the Minister to contemplate what is happening. In addition to this, if we look to the immediate future, every flow statistic that there is available, including the flow statistics that are available from the Hancock Committee report which he commissioned, new vacancies notified, placements confirmed and forward financial data, indicate that with a freedom to choose, without effective direction of labour, full employment will not be with us for quite a number of months. If the Minister does anything to alleviate that situation he certainly has my full and complete support. 
To make one final point I refer to a weekly paper. One can imagine in these circumstances the testy kinds of conversations within the Cabinet on unemployment. They may go something like this, as reported in that newspaper: 
Hold hard there, good King Gough, methinks I must pray a boon of thee. Observe yon Squire Cameron there. 
Clyde by name in common parlance, a stout and trusty fellow, gadzooks. 
Prithee tell me sire, is not young Squire Cameron worthy of a seat at the table of the mighty? Should he not feel the weight of thy sword on his shoulder in knighthood? 
Not for unemployment; never for unemployment. I make one other comment and carry on the olde English language with respect to the Minister: 'And of  Sir Clyde  himself, having been promoted at the Cabinet table, 'hath not his words ruined his chance in several portfolios, sire? Foreign affairs, for example, recreation, energy? Is not his very own portfolio in some jeopardy? Can he, my liege'- that is, Gough- 'with these views continue as Minister for Labor?' Certainly, yes. And he has the support of this side of the House to continue, but with the policy of full employment It is the most binding testament that is placed upon those who sit in this place and it is the most binding testament that is placed upon those who sit in the national Parliament. The 30-year agreement needs to be upheld. I know he would be anxious to uphold it. Now is not the time to rewrite Curtin 's promise and to follow a completely new course. We would have too much respect for the Minister and for that former Labor Prime Minister to assert that kind of proposition. But at the moment I would suggest that even the passage of 30 years cannot make and should not be utilised to make that promise invalid. 
-I move: 
Omit 'as the Authority considers appropriate', insert 'as are concerned directly in the conduct and administration of the licence and are considered by the Authority to be appropriate'. 
It has intrigued me why in its amendment the Government added the words 'that the Authority shall consult such other persons as the Authority considers appropriate'. That is an incredibly wide proposition that the Government is putting, especially as it relates to the powers and the functions of the Board under section 16 of the present Act. It means that, under Part IV of the present Act, in the examination of licences, the advertising activities of licensees and so on if, for example, a television station had given a news broadcast that was inimical to people on strike or perhaps to  Mr Laurie  Carmichael or  Mr Halfpenny  the Authority could consult those people concerning its exercise of powers under section 16 and there is no way in which that can be prevented. While I concede at present that the Authority can consult representatives of the stations they are presumed to be the representatives of the commercial television organisations. That has been the case. 
The new amendment puts forward a very wide set of propositions. I believe that the Government may have made them wider than it intended them to be. It may be that the Government would like to have consulted those who are concerned directly in the administration of the stations even though such persons may not be construed to be representatives of the stations. So the Government amendment proposes that the Board or the Authority can consult persons who may not be construed to be representatives but such persons as are concerned directly in the conduct and the administration of the licence. I believe that this goes half way between what the Government intended and what the present situation entails. The proposal by the Government is wider than one would reasonably like to see. For example, if in the conduct of a station the Government wants to consult the executive of the Builders Labourers Federation to establish some kind of connection between that body, its members and the television station, that would not necessarily be eliminated.  Mr Norm  Gallagher could be consulted. I do not think that is an appropriate set of circumstances. I do not think that is what the Government intends or has ever been intended to operate under the Act and under the authority of the Board to consult with others. I hope the Minister for Science is looking at the proposed amendment carefully. He had a smile on his face a little earlier. I hope that was a smile of approval. It would not be a smile of cynicism. I hope that on this occasion he uses his reason and is not subject to the Government's discipline. 
-The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has made a very valid point. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
Question put: 
That the clause, as amended, be agreed to. 
-A number of simple truisms have been stated concerning this legislation. The Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2) is about power and, quite obviously, the use and dissemination of that power. It is for that ultimate reason the Opposition takes the attitude it does. As people of commonsense, the Opposition has to look with great suspicion upon the proposed use of this power and there are good reasons for its doing that. After all, the media in general in many ways constitute one of the most sensitive areas of Australian life. They have a capacity to influence Australian life which may now be rivalled by no other institution and no other organisation. In many ways the media have reached into this chamber and some have sought to dominate it. Insofar as this cnamber, this Parliament, is concerned with power and is concerned with information, it has to express a view about these matters. My view is quite clear- that any more authority given to governments to be able to traffic directly or indirectly in the dissemination of information ought to be resisted very strongly indeed. 
It was Talleyrand, a diplomat, if I may term him in that way, of another nation and of another day who said that no nation had the right to traffic in the independence of small nations. I put that proposition gently to the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  in respect of the Baltic States. But it is a fact that no great.power has the right to traffic in the independence of small nations. Transmitted to the area we are now discussing, no government or no authority ought to take it upon itself the right to traffic in the freedom of information and I believe that that freedom - 
The Minister must be referring to the 'Sandgate Echo'? No government ought to take unto itself the right to traffic in those areas. I believe that for those reasons this Bill ought to be resisted. Those statements are not made in a vacuum or out of peevishness. Probably the most authoritative speech on the possibilities of the misuse of power in this area was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself. He delivered a speech to the Australian Broadcasting Commission's staff- they were his friends then- at Sydney on Friday afternoon, 4 June 1971. At the time he was still a candidate for the leadership of a government in this country. Some of the contents of that speech can be appropriately considered in the context of power. It will be recollected that in the administration of authority by the Australian Broadcasting Commission the guiding principle as to the information disseminated by the Commission and the other media in this country was the principle of balance of information. The Prime Minister said on that occasion quite clearly in respect of that principle: 
I say quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, and I say directly to you,  Sir Robert  - 
That was the  Chairman  at that time- the formula - 
That is of balance- is unworkable and deservedly unworkable. 
In another part of the speech the Prime Minister said that the principle was in fact a Trojan horse and ought to be rejected. The Prime Minister made important comments on page 16 of the speech which referred to the ultimate areas and the ultimate authorities to which this Bill proposes to hand over authority with respect to the dissemination of information not within the ABC but within the whole gamut of the electronic media in Australia. He had this to say: 
Yet it would be dishonest for me to assert that the ABC would be free of criticism, free of pressure under a Labor Government. 
The next sentence is important: 
I confess that there is an authoritarian streak in my party as strong as exists among my opponents. 
I ask honourable members to forget about politics. The Prime Minister acknowledged the existence of an authoritarian streak with respect to power in relation to the electronic media in Australia. For those reasons, which I think are cogent and sensible reasons, one ought to look very carefully, even a trifle suspiciously, at the legislation before us. 
It may be drawing a long bow, but the extent to which the misuse of the right to propagandise can be utilised is made quite clear by the first minister for the media in the 20th Century. I refer to the late  Dr Goebbels  and I merely indicate the power that is involved. After he was appointed as Minister for Propaganda he had this to say: 
There ought to be nothing mystifying about propaganda. We openly admit that we want to influence the people. This is the proper way to do it. 
On 16 March 1933 he added: 
A government such as ours which has to take such farreaching measures . . . must make propagandistic preparations in order to draw the people on its side . . . Public enlightenment is essentially passive; propaganda is active . . . We are determined to work on the masses until they have fallen to us. 
That is an extreme position but it is a statement of the ultimate authority that lies in this area. It is a statement of an ultimate authority that could lie in this area if utilised by a Minister armed with the amendments which the Government wishes to make to the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
For these reasons again, one should say: 'Pause and think carefully'. To support my suspicion I refer to what happened in the chamber just before the sitting was suspended for lunch. At that time the Opposition was putting its case and expressing its concern in these areas. Even while the case was being presented and after the Opposition had circulated its proposed amendments to the Bill the Government circulated proposed new amendments. This was done while the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who is leading for the Opposition on this legislation, was talking and after the Opposition had committed itself So quite clearly it was proposed that the Opposition would be given little time for reflection or analysis in its consideration of the Bill. 
That is just a little short of tragic. I understand the position in which the honourable member was placed. Nevertheless those matters ought to be looked at and borne in mind when this Bill is being considered. The principle of balance applying in the most significant medium in Australia was denigrated by the Prime Minister. 
The Prime Minister denigrated the right to information, the potential right to balanced information, within the ABC. I believe that the principle of a plurality of interests or a plurality of a controlling interest is likely to be, and will be, prejudiced if the Government's amendments to the legislation are passed. So unrelenting suspicion has to be and ought to be exercised in respect of these areas. There are 3 areas in precise detail in which this Bill proposes to alter the Act. One area is with respect to short term licences. It is proposed that the licences be given for periods from 6 months to 3 years. This proposal would prove very difficult for licensees. Alterations are proposed with respect to powers to be exercised by the Authority, again with the authority of the Minister and outside the purview of the Parliament. 
In respect of the award of licences clause 6 (f) sets out that the authority can now consult 'such other persons as the Authority considers appropriate'. What does that mean? It means that a station, a licensee who has functioned quite creditably and quite well and who wants either to obtain a licence or to have a licence renewed, can have appearing before the Authority perhaps  Mr Carmichael  of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, whose connection with the licensee can be the fact that some fitters and turners or electricians who are engaged under awards concerning his union may work on the station.  Mr Halfpenny,  for example, could be consulted by the Authority, the members of which are appointed by the Government itself. The vicious circle of the control and power begins to close. Therefore I would suggest that when we come to the committee stage of this debate an amendment be introduced which would allow the Authority to consult such other persons as are directly associated with the administration of the licence- not an outside authority stretching to an executive far removed from the direct administration of the licence. That would give at least some guarantee of objectivity with respect to these areas. 
There are other matters in regard to this legislation on which one could speak. But again one returns to the first principles. A power sought will be a power utilised. That is common sense. It is not beyond common sense. If a power is sought it is appropriate to ask for what purposes it can be . utilised. I will be very interested to see the attitude of the Government to the amendments which have been proposed by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  so that regulations made under the powers for the clarification of standards can be scrutinised by the Parliament itself. After all, in respect of the electronic media in Australia, the Minister has more direct authority and is more involved than is a similar Minister in other nations- certainly in Canada and the United States of America. Insofar as he is more directly concerned, barriers, cushions and safety fences ought to be erected between the Minister and the exercise of that power. 
This comes to perhaps the crux of the whole debate- the attitude to the proposed amendments in respect of the development of these standards. We want those standards to be scrutinised ultimately, and able to be scrutinised ultimately, by this Parliament. The Royal Commission on Broadcasting in Canada made it clear that the authority ought always to revert to the Parliament. If that is applied with respect to the United States, why is it not intended that it apply in respect of Australia? This is of great significance for recent events which were often misreported but which it was possible at least to bring about. I refer to a reported attempted- I believe the matter was incorrectly reported in many respects- acquisition of a television station by a political party. I have to express very great concern at the first proposition that a political party should even be able to have a television licence. If one is concerned with the dissemination of power such a licence held by a political party runs too close to the principle of trafficking in information. When I say that I bear in mind very much that the Royal Commission on Television more than 20 years ago made it quite clear that no political party ought to have a television licence. That was made quite explicit in the 1953 report of the Royal Commission. 
A little later, in the late 1950s, when an attempt was made to acquire a licence on behalf of the Labor Party in Sydney- the late  Dr Evatt  was counsel for his Party in this respect- once again the Board in making its recommendation quite sensibly said that even though there will be difficulties in respect of information transmitted by the media and even though there may be concern that appropriate balance is not developed in the transmission of that information, the direct acquisition by a political party and the ability of a political party to be able to obtain television licences ought to be rejected for so long and so far as a limited number of licences are able to be conferred in any one area. 
Again it is the right of information and it is the dissemination of the authority to transmit that information which is the substance at point and which is the substance of the case of the Opposition in respect of this authority. I take it a little further. I do not think it is drawing too long a bow to say that if a political party has its members in government and as a government is appointing members of a broadcasting authority which can then award a licence to that political party or a chain of licences to a political party to run the media, we are in a very dangerous situation indeed. That circle is almost closed, but one can take it further. Add to that principle the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Bearing in mind that advertising expenditure is the lifeblood of the media, there is the propensity for that government to appoint members of the Tribunal who in fact determine what is legitimate advertising expenditure, which in fact is the lifeblood of the media in many cases and which may be awarded to the political party whose members are in government. 
When one bears in mind the words of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that there is within his own Party an authoritarian streak which he fears, surely that fact and those facts ought not to be ignored. That is the philosophy, I believe, of the Opposition's case with respect to this matter. It depends upon the 3 precise amendments of substance that are proposed to the Bill. They are the amendments with respect to the short term licences; they are the amendments with respect to the definition of standards under the authority of the Minister and not to be scrutinised by this Parliament in terms of regulations; and in determining licences the ability of the authority on the Board to consult whomsoever it would directly or indirectly associated with the licence, the licensee or the broadcasting or television station. I do not believe that that ought to be on. In the Australian context where the Minister is directly concerned in this area, as he is, the Opposition is justified in saying that it opposes this Bill and opposes the substance of it. I look with some alacrity at the attitude of the Government to the amendments which are proposed by the Opposition. They are amendments which could be supported with the words of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  I hope they will be supported with his vote. 
I wish to speak only briefly on this BUI. There are a number of points that I desire to make. I think that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has to be congratulated on the characteristically succinct and clear manner in which he stated the Opposition's point of view on this Bill. Of course, he has put forward a policy which contains sound and simple commonsense and which any government ought to follow if it had any commonsense. 
A number of points which were touched on by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who has just spoken in the debate, and by the honourable member for Boothby deserve at least passing comment. If there is an umbrella which covers the administration of any housing agreement or any housing policy, that umbrella has to consist of the experience of interest rates in a country. The level of interest rates is one aspect of economic and social life which cannot escape our concern. There are 2 areas of Australian economic life where one cannot pass the buck any further. One is our balance of payments position and once that is in serious jeopardy something has to be done. The other area, which applies in a domestic sense, is interest rates. If the level of interest rates is unsatisfactory something should be done about them. In many ways this Bill is a reflection of the concern the Government has about rising interest rates in Australia. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  is to be congratulated for one or two features of the agreement which he was able to obtain through his own party last year. The fact that he was able to obtain money at an interest rate of 4 per cent is a very great achievement and he deserves to be congratulated for it. The fact that money will be made available under this Bill at 4 per cent to State housing authorities and at 4% per cent for the Home Builders Account is a significant achievement. When one looks at the interest rates that are applying elsewhere the level of interest rates proposed under this legislation represents a subsidy of some dollars a week for those people who are lucky enough to be able to obtain this money, and there is the crunch in this question. 
The organisation of the Australian economy has been such that the waiting list for homes is now longer than ever. The inability of people to obtain finance for homes is greater than has ever been experienced and it is unlikely to be satisfied in the near future. The acquisition of homes is directly related to the level of interest rates and inflation. Both of these factors are working against housing not in the sense of bricks and mortar but in the sense of families wanting to obtain them, whether they are well-to-do families or poor families because everyone has the right to purchase a home. 
The Bill seeks to do 3 things, and it is in relation to them that I wish to pass very short comments. The intention to increase the proportion of funds that can be allocated to the Home 
Builders Account is very welcome. If I may mention a little piece of history, this proposal is almost a repetition of the great battle that  Senator Spooner  had away back in 1956 when he sought to get an adequate proportion of funds made available for the Home Builders Account for use by the co-operative terminating building societies. On that occasion the argument was, and I believe that the argument remains now, that money spent through these sources is spent more efficiently than money spent through the other sources of funds that are available for welfare housing. Money made available through the Home Builders Account will be well and efficiently utilised and will give a maximum return. I have only one doubt in this regard, and that arises from the fact that co-operative terminating building societies are scattered very sparsely throughout Australia. I hope that the State Ministers will utilise the flexibility contained in this Bill and will allocate more money to these areas because no doubt they are aware of the fact that there are many large cities, especially large provincial cities, which are inadequately served by terminating building societies. I hope that the Minister for Housing and Construction will prevail upon the State Ministers to use the facilities available to their own departments to take up the slack. 
I come to a second feature of the Bill which has been applauded so far, but which disguises some very great difficulties that will be put upon the State authorities. I refer to the imposition of the needs test. Immediately one says that one does not think the needs test should be imposed by a central government, there is a response from people such as the honourable member for Shortland such as: 'Well, of course, you are not interested in the poor'. But that is absolute nonsense. The imposition of a needs test from Canberra on State authorities which have to administer these funds can cause a very great injustice. I would like to give honourable members a couple of examples. To relate the needs test to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings of the main income earner of a family forgets that the criterion for determining need used by the Henderson Commission and by every other inquiry into poverty or relative affluence in a community is a family income. 
As far as I can see, that essential criterion is being put aside and ignored altogether in respect of the needs test which is being imposed under this Bill. For example, does the Government suggest that in a time of rising unemployment a family which hitherto had 2 income earners and which now has only one income earner who receives say 85 per cent of average earnings and whose wife is unemployed, is not in a different position and that for all practical purposes the needs test applying to this family has not altered? Of course it has. The status of that family has altered. The income available to that family has altered. But yet, as I understand it, and as implied by the needs test, there is no change. So in a time of rising unemployment- seriously rising unemployment- the needs test is rather torn to pieces in this respect. 
I believe that the needs test is torn to pieces in another respect. An allowance of $2 per week is given for each child above two in a family. I am not sure what the calculation is concerning the needs test at the moment. However, say it is $ 1 00 or 95 per cent of average weekly earnings- I think that this was the figure at the December quarter. This would be the level of a needs test for a family consisting of a man, his wife and 2 children. Are we to say that if a family has 6 children and the needs test moves up to $ 108 a week that family is in exactly the same position as a family on $100 a week with 2 children? That is the implication of the needs test. That runs contrary to the eminent common sense utilised by Professor Henderson in the principles of his own reports on poverty. People who try to impose a needs test like this make a very grave error and do not comprehend the essential measure of poverty which has to be available and disposable family income, according to circumstances. 
For that reason when I was Minister for Housing I hesitated to interfere in imposing a means test because I judged then, as I judge now, that those officers in State housing commissions, trusts or authorities who are dealing with cases individually are better able to judge relative needs. Any monetary criteria which are attempted to be imposed from this place have to fall into serious error. They put people in the same circumstances who are not in the same circumstances. They advantage some and disadvantage others. I recollect that the Tasmanian Government was always concerned to make its own judgments and to set its own criteria in this area. I suggest that a return to that kind of situation would not be a disadvantage to the Bill. While I say this I do not want to criticise the Minister. He has a concern for poverty and for proper needs, but in trying to develop and to set criteria I think he is setting himself an almost impossible task. I do not suggest for one moment these measures have been taken out of illwill, a lack of concern or a lack of sensitivity as to what is needed in these areas, but I suggest that unless many other criteria are used by its very nature the legislation is wrong. Children cannot be kept on $2 a week, and to make distinctions of that nature is to make a mistake. 
I have one further characteristic to add. It still seems that Hargreave's Law applies with respect to the family situation and it still seems that families with more than the average number of children tend to be poorer families. This operates particularly in the area in which these housing commissions are involved. I refer to the less welltodo families in Australian life. I ask the Minister to consider this matter. I in no way mean it to be other than an objective comment while discussing this matter. Since discussion has been entered into in a passing manner on other housing policies, I stress that the difficulties of implementing this Bill reflect the difficulties that are occurring in the other areas of Australian life. I suggest that many more people will be shunted into making appeals for housing commission money than would hitherto have been the case. Savings bank interest rates cannot be altered without making variations in this area. Availability of money from finance companies cannot be altered without putting people into these areas. The same applies to permanent building societies. 
One of the tragedies that has occurred in respect of housing during the past 12 months I believe has been the activities of some savings banks as they affect those who apply for housing commission loans, agreements or finance. Over the past year the Commonwealth Savings Bank on all the available criteria, has attempted to impose its own credit squeeze on funds available for housing in Australia. The Commonwealth Banking Corporation report shows that it has quite clearly entered into money market and bond buying activities to an extent that has never hitherto occurred in Australian life. The Savings Bank which was developed to assist housing, was not set up for that reason. 
-As the honourable member for Boothby, who has an intimate understanding of all these things, says, it is supposed to be the people's bank. The Commonwealth Savings Bank became a principal buyer of government bonds in order to keep up the demand for bonds on the market. Insofar as it did that its own proportion of assets which it made available for housing fell to a very low level and fell continually during 1973-74. 
The private savings banks, on the other hand, raised the proportion of their own assets which was appropriated to housing. That affects this Bill because funds not available to people in one area will cause people to apply for funds in another area. Savings banks make funds available to people who are just a little above criteria usually set for people who apply for funds from housing commissions and funds which are made available through this housing agreement. This fact cannot be ignored. As I said earlier, the ripple effects in one area of the interest rate market affect every other area of the market, and certainly in this area. One of the other tragic consequences of what has happened, because a credit squeeze has been maintained in respect of reasonable interest rate housing funds available, has been that for the first year ever, I believe, more funds were made available and had to be sought through finance companies for these fields than from savings banks. That situation has never applied before. The difference in interest rates between savings banks and finance companies of 4 per cent, 5 per cent, 6 per cent or 7 per cent means a penalty to borrowers of $ 10, $15 or $20 more a week because they are driven to finance companies. The consequences cannot be ignored. 
Finally I return to the precise content of this Bill and the agreement which has been proposed. The Bill, insofar as it deals with interest rates of 4 per cent and 4% per cent, is very generous. I do not know the kind of battle the Minister had, but if he can get interest rates down to that level he should be applauded for doing so. It is a very commendable achievement. I remind him that this Bill and this agreement cannot stand alone. Those people to whom funds will be available are those to whom funds are not available from permanent building societies, savings banks and finance companies. The Bill also relates to those people who are unable to pay the rates of interest required from each of the other levels of Australian life. I return to the second point I made. I think it is an appropriate proposal. I ask the Minister to consider seriously the details of the needs test which he requires, the relation of that needs test in terms of growing unemployment in Australia and the essential criteria for determining the position of a family's income. 
I suggest that unless the Minister puts many more variables into the test- I do not believe he can rightly do so- it may be best to leave the determination of those who should be able to apply for these funds to the goodwill, the sense of tradition and the judgment of State housing authorities. They have been in the business for a long time and they are in closer contact with the people who would desire funds as a result of this agreement. 
-I second the motion and I seek to speak to it now. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in his usual dispassionate and objective manner has given impeccable evidence as to 6 deliberate untruths. Those untruths are quite clear and need to be reiterated once again for what they involve. As is his wont, the honourable member for Mackellar has concentrated his remarks on the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He has established a clear case that members of this Parliament and people outside it have been deliberately misled. Those cases involve one in the Senate- the manner of the  Senator Gair  episode- the matter of communist penetration within the union movement and the famous 'nervous Nellies' comment concerning tariff policy which has been shown to be a lie. The evidence for that is quite clearly on tape. The honourable member mentioned also a series of untruths and deliberate untruths that was manifested and propogated during the election campaign and the very unnecessary and cruel denigration of a number of Australia's leading academics and economists during the referendum campaign last year. I understand that the latter statement was made in Adelaide. It was unnecessary, it was unfair and it was cruel. It was an attempted slur on the reputation of men who have demonstrated their considerable intellectual capacity. They, of course, exposed the falsity of the referendum campaign last year in relation to prices and incomes, and for that they had to pay the price. 
The honourable member for Mackellar has taken as his motto the truth of the situations which the Prime Minister has sought to ignore. He has had a slavish attachment to those propositions and in maintaining this slavish attachment to them, he has indicated that there are 6 instances in which truth and honesty have been ignored. I believe that that is well recognised by the people of Australia. I go a little bit further and deal with statements made by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and an unfortunate statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  for whom nobody on this side of the House has any ill will whatsoever. I would also like to deal with a series of misrepresentations which cannot be put out of time, which deserve not to be misunderstood and which were made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  The most serious undertaking any government can make and the most solemn pledge any government can make relate to employment. It is the longest existing guarantee that any government can make, and that guarantee which has been made by the Government, by Ministers with particular executive responsibilities and by members of the Australian Labor Party is the pledge to find work in Australia for those who want to work. It is a guarantee which was made, when the present Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  was a member of this House, on behalf of John Curtin and with the knowledge of the late Ben Chifley when he was Treasurer of this country. It was a solemn pledge to maintain full employment That pledge has been broken. Did the Prime Minister indicate during the last election campaign the kind of Australia which he was seeking to bring in? One has to go back to the cartoons of the 1930s. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER Order! I would remind the honourable member for Lilley that the terms of the motion before the House deal with the veracity of statements made by Ministers both in the House and in the public media. While that motion is fairly tight, it is also loose in another way. The honourable member should stick to the terms of the motion. 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker but you will realise that the motion moved by the honourable member for Mackellar contains the words 'should be truthful in thenstatements both in this House and in the public media'. Both circumstances are involved and from time to time I might shift from one to the other, as I know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would acknowledge. Unemployment falls into that category. Let me indicate the untruths in the most important and solemn statement made by the Prime Minister at Terrigal on 5 May 1973 at a function which I had been privileged to attend. He said: 
Governments and their authorities must follow responsible policies in pricing and employment conditions. This is the context into which prices and incomes policies have to be fitted. 
He had to follow up that statement with a clear statement on inflation and unemployment at the end of the speech made to the Industrial Relations Society. He said: 
No solution is acceptable if its burdens are not shared fairly by the whole community. No solution is acceptable if it discriminates against the weakest and the most defenceless sections of society. No solution is acceptable if it tolerates high levels of unemployment. 
They were brave words said in May 1973. The Prime Minister having made that pledge, having made that statement and having had it believed, there has been caused within this country the steepest slide into unemployment ever recorded. There has been a clear repudiation of that statement. Were we ever told that the type of Australia which we were to expect in the 1970s was to be a reversion to the 1930s? Who could fail to remember the cartoons in the newspapers of Australia, such as the 'Bulletin' in the 1930s. One cartoon depicted a breadwinner seeking employment but unable to find it. He had a family to support and he knocked on doors asking the lady of the home in any street in Australia whether they had any work for him. They said that he could chop wood in the back yard. That is the type of Australia that is being built in the 1970s. 
I wish to raise one or two matters concerning the Banking Bill which I think ought to be explored because this Bill has associated with it a number of very important issues. The heart of the Banking Bill lies in the proposed new section 39 which is a much more detailed recitation of the powers which it could be construed accrue to the Commonwealth under the various placitums under section 51, namely section 51(1), 51 (12) and 51 (20). Although these sub-sections are largely of a technical nature, their philosophy and their application cannot be ignored. In a few words the proposed new section 39 makes it perfectly clear that there is immense power which the Commonwealth has under the Constitution, which is granted and delineated clearly in terms of the Banking Act and able to be administered by the Reserve Bank in relation to overseas countries, foreign investment, the purposes to which investment may be directed and the circumstances in which it would be allowed. 
The powers contained in the legislation mean a great deal domestically too because immediately the powers under proposed new section 39 are nominated one comes face to face with the proposition: to what extent are the domestic living conditions and economic conditions in Australia a prey to overseas circumstances? Expressed in simple terms, the proposed new section 39, which I will look at in some detail and direct one or two questions about makes it clear that a Prime Minister is not a person with no clothes. It ensures that he will be garmented, that he has every covering in regard to his dealings with the rest of the world and there is conferred on him and on a government immense power which can be wielded in an appropriate manner. The weapons are there and they deserve to be explored. 
The preamble to the proposed new section 39- which I have said is the heart of this legislationis interesting in comparison with the present one under which the Governor-General is given an umbrella power with respect to regulations on foreign exchange for two general purposes- for the protection of the currency or the public credit of the Commonwealth, or in order to conserve in the national interest the foreign exchange resources of the Commonwealth. That is the end of the 2 general powers. In clause 39 there is an additional power explicitly conferred on him, and that additional power relates to, in the words of the clause:  foreign investment in Australia, Australian investment outside Australia, foreign ownership or control of property in Australia or of Australian property outside Australia or Australian ownership or control of property outside Australia or of foreign property in Australia. 
I hesitate to read that, but that should make the lawyers happy. So there is conferred quite explicitly on the Governor-General the additional power concerning the nature of foreign investment to and from this country. The barriers are there to be raised if the Government desires to do so. 
Going to the substance of clause 39- and I will do so in only one or two minutes- in the original section of the Banking Act these powers to make regulations are made explicit in relation to currency, security and goods, and, the section concerns the powers of appeal. In the new provision these powers are delineated in terms of currency, securities, property, goods and the ability to deal with persons abroad. In addition to that there is a relationship proposed in clause 39 (5) (a) and (b) concerning bodies corporate inside and outside this nation, and it is in relation to that last matter that I should like eventually to ask a question. The question I should like to put ultimately relates to the intention of the Government in the utilisation of the section and in those consultations it will have with the Reserve Bank concerning the investment of Arab funds in Australia in property or in other areas. It is appropriate in these circumstances to explore that and I hope that an appropriate reply can be given. It is a policy question. 
So we come back to the eventual philosophical proposition. If there were a leakage anywhere in the administration of domestic economic policy in Australia this would cover the leak. In fact, in terms of the fiscal and tax policies available to Australia, a government now has complete control, unfettered and unchallenged control, with respect to money supply in this nation and the growth or the contraction of money supply. It is made clear that the Government has almost complete control with respect to the most important price in this nation. It has price controleffective price control- with respect to the cost of money, and that is the cost that is the most pervasive and of the greatest significance in Australia. The proposed clause 39 puts aside all arguments in relation to those matters. The Government has control over the money supply and over the price of money or the cost of money; in fact, it has effective control with respect to interest rates. To make perhaps a political comment on the matter, it means that when unemployment occurs in Australia, or when inflation occurs in Australia, to claim the international transmission of unemployment or of inflation to this country is a piece of nonsense. Clause 39 makes it clear that such conditions overseas have no part to play and can no longer provide even a vague alibi for what is happening in this nation. The alibi is stripped away. 
Therefore, when one looks at the money supply in this country and when one examines the rate of change in money supply, which has a great deal to do with interest rates available in this nation, and when one refers to the new indices of money supply, Ml, M2 and M3- I dislike using those terms; they sound rather like the British Secret Service- and when one looks at the first source of money supply over a period of five or six months one finds it has decreased in absolute terms by something like $700m. That is essentially government-caused, because the compensating actions available to a government to alter the money supply just have not been utilised. There is no excuse in the matter. I am not saying that it was necessarily incorrect to reduce the rate of growth in money supply or to reduce money supply, but it is governmentcaused. It cannot be ascribed to somebody outside this nation, and that is a piece of information which I know Government members will be anxious to convey to  Mr Hawke  and to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  They do not seem to have caught up with the fact that this Bill has been introduced. When one adds savings bank deposits and trading bank deposits to the money supply, there has been a contraction over the same period of time of something like $800m. Again, that has occurred because there has been a deliberate, a calculated policy decision. 
When as a result of those matters we find that, due to domestic economic conditions, private enterprise is retracting and actually reducing its production, when we find as a result of that that there is an actual physical decline in the work force employed in Australia in the last month, a decline of 9,000 persons- and this is not a failure to grow quickly enough but an absolute, actual decline- this has a relationship to the powers which are proposed to be conferred under this Bill. They are powers which the Reserve Bank always thought related to it and its administration of the various sections in the Banking Act. So conditions in Australia, the allocation of resources, the barriers behind which this economy can grow or develop, are man-made; they are not accidental. Australia is in no way prey to external sources or external conditions. We only ask that in the use of this power the Government be careful and wise. And it is in relation to those things that I ask the Minister, or those Treasury officials who may be available to advise him, how it is intended to use these powers in relation to the prospect of massive Arab investment in Australia. That question deserves to be answered, and it deserves to be answered with respect to 3 parts of clause 39 of the Bill. 
If I may digress for one moment, I would say this: The tariff powers in this nation are powers which are akin to, and rest on some of the same foundations as, the powers of the Reserve Bank in relation to money, exchange and foreign investment. I believe that if there is one mistake that has been made it was not the mistake of attempting to reduce the level of tariffs, it was the precipitate nature of that reduction and the grossness of the measure; but the necessary response in Australia to this slashing of tariffs did not occur. What had to be done was to secure within the powers that I have nominated the reallocation of resources in this country, to clear reallocation of resources in this country in an almost ultra private enterprise sense. Capital resources, human and material resources should have gone, and should have been enabled to go, to those areas where we could work at what we do best, and if there was a philosophical road block in respect of those matters it was that, having made the decision about tariffs, an interventionist socialist government could not of its nature allow the necessary reallocation of capital and of human resources to fulfil those purposes, to do what other Ministers have called those things that we can do best. 
If I may return in some detail to other aspects of this Bill: With respect to the Arab oil money it is known that the Arabs have available to them in other parts of the world something like $20,000m. I am old fashioned enough still to use the English terminology. It is known also that immense investments have been made in some enterprises in Europe. I understand that immense investments have been made in the Krupps works in Germany. Immense investments have been attempted to be made- mainly equity- in other sources of energy or power, even oil, in other parts of the world. So it is quite clear that there has been an attempt to utilise this money to create something of a monopoly situation in those areas of world life. 
With respect to this nation, I ask: What would be the advice of the Government, if this Bill is passed, concerning clauses 39 (2) (j), 39 (5) (a) and 39 (5) (b)? Clause 39 (2) (j) and the 3 subsequent sub-clauses concern the control or prohibition of the control of property in Australia by persons. Will those clauses be utilised in relation to overseas investment of that type? Secondly, I ask in relation to clauses 39 (5) (a) and 39 (5) (b): In case corporations are involved in these transactions will regulations be made with respect to the corporations power under this section to prohibit or to encourage such investment or with respect to the circumstances in which there will be a prohibition or an encouragement of such an investment in this nation? I believe that those questions are allowable to be contemplated. I suggest that they were very important policy decisions which rested with the Government when this Bill was brought forward. 
If I may I wish to make one further point. The philosophy of the Banking Bill makes it quite clear that the international transmission to a subservient nation of domestic problems overseas is a piece of nonsense. There may be difficulties in relation to the balance of payments situation, as there are now. The balance of payments situations may decline over the term of a year by something like $ 1,800m, $ 1,900m or $2,000m but appropriate compensating action can be taken in a variety of manners. I do not rule out the fact that the fiscal ways of compensating for what is happening- the budgetary, taxation and public expenditure ways of compensating for it- are out of order. I have never said that, nor would I say it. It may be judged, for example, that for the purposes of full employment the fiscal, budgetary and expenditure policies should be utilised so as to cause more resources to be used than would otherwise be the case. In fact their use may cause 100,000 people less to be unemployed than would otherwise be the case, I do not say those things, but I ask: What is the Government's intention concerning that type of overseas investment? What is its intention concerning the use of these powers on that type of investment? This Bill makes it quite clear- I return to the 2 precise points- that in respect of changes in the money situation in Australia and changes in the nature of the credit squeeze in Australia a government is responsible and that in relation to the supply of money a government and the Reserve Bank are responsible. It also makes it quite clear that there is an unfettered control, not transmitted from overseas, over the cost of money, that is, the interest rates that are generally applicable in this nation. They are some of the weapons with which the Government or, to use a term from history, the emperor is arrayed. What we want to know is: In respect of what matters, how and for what purposes will these powers be utilised? 
1 shall not speak to this Bill for a great length of time. It is my intention merely to make one point. The point I wish to make is in relation to the progression proposed in this Bill. Before doing so I wish to say that the Bill clearly relates to 3 features of taxation- a new personal tax scale, to use the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  reduced rates of company tax and a new tax on property income which is known euphemistically as unearned income. I do not intend to enter into all the arguments concerning each of these new tax areas. It is my intention merely to say that no taxation Bill should be proposed without consideration being given first of all to its total consequences in an economic sense. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  intended to do that and, I believe, sought to do that but became embarrassingly theoretical about his propositions and became embarrassingly theoretical about the consequences of the measures before the House. 
It is a long time ago that a statement was made which had in it a great deal of common sense. Professor Clark, an economist who is still wellknown stated that more than 25 per cent of national income collected in terms of tax would be confiscatory with respect to total national product. He was saying this in the days after the Second World War when the welfare state was proposed around the world and was being discovered in the United Kingdom and in Australia. No one disputed the proposition, until that statement was made, that higher collections of tax would themselves decrease total production and productivity. While the figure of 25 per cent may not correct- I believe it has shown to be correctthe statement in principle still stands. There is a maximum rate of take-off which a government should be allowed to confiscate from those who work and who earn in the community. Beyond that, the rate of return decreases. I believe that we are at that stage in Australia today. We are at that stage quite clearly in respect of matters determined by this legislation. 
Of the 3 taxes considered by the Bill the most important is the proposed change in rates of personal income tax. No one can talk about taxation in Australia without talking about rates of personal income tax. That is commonsense because personal income tax represents such a large and growing proportion of the total tax take by Australian governments. In passing, it is to be reflected that on the latest details of the Government's monthly receipts and expenditures the take on tax over the last 4 months is something like 40 per cent higher than it was at the comparable time last year. When one looks at the national income account figures, even for the last quarter for which they are available, one sees that the rises in personal income tax take has been quite remarkable. So personal income tax affects every person who is working and every person who is obtaining a price, a just price or otherwise, for his labour. 
But it also affects to a great degree and very intimately the economic balance of the whole nation. The principles that I have been outlining cannot be ignored. In fact, in many ways, they are the most important of all the principles in this field because unless they are adhered to we cannot have a stable economy and we cannot have a full employment economy, and that ought to still remain the Government's primary object. However, it is a principle that very sadly has been forgotten by the Government. It is one aspect of economic life that ought never be surrendered, inflation or no inflation. 
I have been intrigued at the confidence trick that has been played by the Government in regard to personal income tax rates. The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has highlighted it very explicitly. The confidence trick is being played in respect of the marginal rates of tax that are to be imposed if ever a person in the income bracket $7,000 to $12,000 decides to try to earn another $1 of income. The new rates of income tax are themselves confiscatory. I am intrigued to find that the bulletins put out by the Government which compare the proposed tax with what applied previously make no mention of the comparisons of the marginal rates of tax. I hope that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  will discuss the penalties in detail with workers when he goes round to labour council meetings and trades hall meetings over Christmas time. I hope he will explain the penalties that will apply to workers in the income bracket $7,000 to $12,000 if they seek to earn $1 extra in income. He should also explain to them the implications of the Government's proposition to adopt wage indexation because they are being trapped in this respect also. 
One only has to turn to the very interesting series of bulletins put out by the much maligned Treasury- from it we have an occasional word of truth- to see what the real position is. I refer to the publication entitled: 'Personal Income TaxThe Rate Scale- Treasury Taxation Paper No. 4, October 1974'. Reference is made at page 25 of the document to the essential principles that are abused in terms of the new personal income tax scales. The document states: 
Economic theory is thus inconclusive as to whether high rates of income tax adversely affect incentives to work, though commonsense reasoning suggests that the higher are marginal rates of tax in relation to average rates of tax, the more is the substitution effect likely to outweigh the income effect. 
In other words, the less likely are people to work. On the same page reference is made to the new philosophy embodied in the legislation before us and its effect on attempted tax evasion. The following statement is made at the bottom of page 25 after a reference to methods of tax evasion: 
High marginal rates of income tax substantially increase the reward from such activities in relation to taxable income - 
That is, tax evasion activities-  and attempts to avoid and evade the workings of the law pose serious problems for the equitable administration of the tax system. As far as loopholes in the legislation or in the administration of the law are concerned, a frequent criticism of the tax system raised in many countries with high rates of taxation ( for example, the United Kingdom) -  and it should add, Australia-  is (hat the tax system is only highly progressive in form and that in substance many wealthy taxpayers avoid the full effects of the progression in rates of taxation. 
That is what happens if we have a growing gap, as the gap will grow if this legislation is passed, between marginal rates of tax and average rates of tax. This gap was referred to on occasions by the late Ben Chifley, a former Treasurer of this country. But this is another principle that the present Labor Government has overthrown. It has overthrown principles of taxation as it has overthrown principles in relation to full employment. 
That is right, but principles do not change. The honourable member for Hunter has been rooted in the past often enough. I had hoped that he would stay back there and learn something from it. It is interesting to reflect on the changes that are proposed in the tax on incomes from $7,000 to $12,000. The tax paid on $7,000 on the old scale was 37.9c in the $ 1 . On the new scale the tax will be 44c in the $1. This was pointed out by the honourable member for Fisher. At $7,200 the rate will increase from 39.9c in the $1 to 44c in the $1. Without going into a plethora of figures I shall recite a few more of the increases. The rate on $8,000 increases from 41.8c to 48c; the rate on $9,000 increases from 44.9c to 48c; the rate on $10,000 increases from 48.2c to 52c. From $12,000 upwards the gap decreases. So the Government has made a mark of a series of groups of taxpayers. They are the victims of confiscatory levels of marginal tax. 
What is to happen with regard to the Government's proposals of indexation? What will be the nature of discussion between the Government and labour councils? It is pretty widely known that I am not unsympathetic to indexation and I stand on that point. The argument put by Government supporters would be something like this: 'Well, the Labor Government, will look after you. We will give you indexation. We will allow you, of course, to have your wages adjusted according to a cost of living index and your wages will go up automatically according to that index. We will not oppose that'. But that fails so say 2 things. It fails to say that if wages go up according to the cost of living index the Government will take an increasingly confiscatory marginal amount out of every $1 earned. That is the first part of the confidence trick. The second part is an interesting one because the index on which wages are intended to be adjusted or altered is falling further and further behind the actual increases in the cost of living and any examination of over award price deflators and consumer price deflators indicates that people would be foolish to believe that the consumer price index actually measures the increased burden of the cost of living on the average Australian household. I hope that this confidence trick and the principles involved in it will be examined in great detail. I am sure that there will be a great number of friendly questions posed in respect of them. 
I indicated that it was not my intention to speak for long and I shall not do so. I merely make these points finally: Rates of income tax are the most important ingredients of this Bill. They have very great and very significant overall economic effects. The discouragement to work caused by high rates of marginal tax cannot be ignored by any government, and in a community in which actual production is decreasing- it is not merely remaining level, it is decreasing- in a community in which rates of growth of productivity are negative- they are actually negativeand in a community in which the work force itself- not just the unemployed but the actual work force- is decreasing in size, then to propose confiscatory marginal rates of tax, to prevent productivity, to prevent people from working and to prevent people from getting the reward for their work is, I believe, almost a form of economic insanity. But there it is; it is before us now. The principles were exposed by the honourable member for Fisher and I believe I have taken that a little further. If the Government sincerely intends to develop a full employment community in which productivity rates induce and encourage real higher rates of income, this type of tax scale is not the way to do it. It makes nonsense of those principles, and I hope that when the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  replies to some of the comments that I have made he will answer in respect of these matters. I hope also that when he replies he will perhaps give a facsimile, a friendly but nevertheless very factual account, of how the discussions might go at these trades and labor council meetings and what the responses which will be required of Labor members at those meetings will be. 
-I refer to clause 1 7, which reads in part: 
After section 82k of the Principal Act the following Subdivision is added at the end of Division 3 of Part 111: 'Subdivision C- Interest in respect of Housing Loans 
* * * * 
'82kc. ( 1 ) Where the net income of a taxpayer in respect of a year of income exceeds $4,000, the amount of the deduction otherwise allowable to the taxpayer under section 82KB in respect of that year of income shall be reduced by one per centum of that last-mentioned amount for each $100 by which that net income of the taxpayer exceeds $4,000. 
* * * * 
I move: 
In proposed sub-section 82KC. (1), omit '$4,000' (twice occurring), substitute '$6,000 '. 
The amendment has the simple aim of moving the base amount on which the 100 per cent tax deductibility applies from $4,000 to $6,000. I have moved this amendment for a very simple reason. I believe that it is nonsense and foolish in the extreme to say today that a person who obtains a loan for a house and who has a net income of $78 a week will have all the interest payments available as a tax deduction. The amount of $78 a week as a net income would not enable anyone, certainly not a person who has any responsibilities, to get a loan from any institution. In fact it is far below the level which is supposed to apply in respect of housing commission loans. 
This proposal was first put forward in November 1972. It was put forward as a panic measure because the Australian Labor Party at that time had been denied its. own housing scheme proposal. Its 2 per cent deduction housing scheme was shown to be a fraud and nonsense; so it dreamed up this proposal within weeks of the 1972 election. At that stage the Labor Party said that it would apply to everybody on a net income or an actual income- the words have been varied- of between $4,000 and $14,000. But since November 1972 costs have moved along a great deal. A $4,000 net income at that time must be equivalent to something like a $5,500 to $6,000 net income today, especially in relation to housing costs and especially in relation to the ability to meet a reasonable loan from a lending institution, whether that institution be a bank, a building society or even a housing commission. An income of $78 a week would not allow any person to meet a substantial mortgage payment. So to leave the base amount at $4,000 is to play a confidence trick on those people who want loans for housing. 
There are other aspects of the scheme which I hope to mention in one or two moments, but that is by far the most important. We know that the scheme is regressive in many other respects. We know that the scheme penalises those people who want to save for a home. We know that it penalises those people who seek to obtain a modest loan to build a modest home compared with those who want to obtain a large loan to build a castle. The Government is saying: 'We will return to you less dollars if you have a modest loan than if you have the largest loan possible '. It is for that reason that this is perhaps the most obviously regressive part of the taxation home mortgage deductibility scheme. The sum of $4,000 is completely inappropriate. I know that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  is vitally interested in this aspect. I know also that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has a sense of social justice about these matters. 
I put it to the Treasurer that the $4,000 means nothing. I put to him the example of a family comprised of a man, his wife and perhaps 2 children which has a net income of $4,000. Does the Government say to that family: 'We are very generous with our taxation deductibility scheme. If you go to a bank and obtain a loan all the interest that you, on $78 a week or so, pay on that house we will give back to you as a tax deduction'? In fact $4,000 is either at or just below the minimum weekly wage at the moment. So to pitch a scheme which is designed to assist people paying off mortgages by making the minimum amount equivalent to the minimum wage is to speak rubbish and nonsense. I believe that the Government is effectively deluding many people in this respect. I have indicated that I will speak to this amendment for only four or five miunutes. I know that the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls)  always appreciates it if I keep my word in this respect. I shall not say any more, but I hope that the Treasurer will respond and will consider very carefully whether the figure of $4,000 has any relevance to November 1974. 
-I shall continue to abide by the undertaking which I have given to the Government Whip. I move: 
After proposed sub-section 82kc. (1 ) insert the following sub-section: 82kc ( 1a) The net income referred to in sub-section (1 ) shall be deemed in each income year subsequent to the income year ending on 30 June 1975 to be multiplied by a fraction whereof the numerator is the Consumer Price Index points of the June quarter of the year in respect of which the interest payments for the Housing Loan is to be a tax deduction and the denominator is the Consumer Price Index points for the June quarter 1 974. '. 
The reference to the year 1 974 of course applies in more legal terms to the income year 1974-75. What is simply being proposed here- and the Treasurer will recognise it immediately- is that a form of indexation be applied to the - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Listening to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  was entertaining. I understand that, in the southern parts of Sydney, he has a reputation for many things. One of them is a first class cook. The speech which he gave this afternoon was a little bit like an Irish stew. In it he had 10 first class ideas. They came out as a sloppy flaccid mess. Only one simple hard fact must come out of any discussion on housing. 
-It was the solidity which the Minister was unable to digest. It is simply that housing cannot be dealt with unless interest rates are dealt with also. High interest rates always make housing and home ownership unattainable. The second factor in terms of housing is the availability of funds. They go together. But they were not in the mess that the Minister put together and they did not come out. Let me remind the Minister of one or two facts. I hesitate to do so because it had not been my intention to spend much time exposing the faults of the Government; enough of that has been done already. I was interested in his quotation of the figures and details released earlier today of housing approvals. The Minister takes credit for the fact that the total value of approvals for housing has risen for the month of October. The first thing I say about housing approvals- and the Minister would know it- is that they are notoriously random. They go everywhere. They are not a good indicator of what is going to happen in the immediate months ahead. But the value of approvals has gone up, and we are delighted that they have risen. Everybody is delighted. We only hope that approvals having risen means that commencements will rise and houses will be built. We all want that. But remember, they have risen from the bottom of the barrel. They are swimming their way out of the barrel. 
There has never been a decline in terms of housing ever recorded of the type of decline that has been experienced in recent months. There is no point in taking credit for the fact that they are trying to find their way to the light. I hope that they will. The decline in this area has varied in different parts of Australia. I do not wish to spend a great deal of time on this aspect except to make one further comment. The circumstances of this Bill are quite sad. The Bill accompanies the greatest decline ever recorded in the history of this nation in the field of housing. That fact has to give cause for sadness. 
The aims of the legislation are good. The Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  need to be given great credit for the unicity of the measures proposed in terms of this legislation. The fact that $150m is proposed to be allocated directly to savings banks from appropriations for the purpose of housing is a welcome initiative. But the circumstances which require that initiative can give no one here any cause for pleasure. 
I am delighted that, in allocating these funds to the banks, the Government proposes that they are to be used in a sense for pump priming in the area of housing and are to be allocated to banks in proportion to the activities of those banks in the rest of Australia. The banks include the savings banks, the Rural Bank of New South Wales, the Bank of Queensland and one or two other banks. The Government deserves to be given credit for the fact that the banks in the administration of these funds will administer and allocate them according to their own practices, their own traditions and the interest rates at which housing loans have been traditionally available from such banks. All of that is on the credit side. We have to be the first to acknowledge it. 
There is one other factor that cannot be ignored in this area. Traditionally a situation in which people make deals and propositions for their own homes- the greatest debt that most people will ever undertake in their lives- has always existed in a general market economy. It is a tragedy that usurious interest rates- the highest interest rates ever recorded- destroy the facts of a market economy in this area. Interest rates mean a great deal. A rise of 1 per cent, 2 per cent or 3 per cent in interest rates means for many people the payment of an extra $5, $6 or $10 a week for 30 or 40 years. This is what high interest rates mean. They are one of the most effective means available whereby people have their living standards significantly reduced. 
I now turn my attention to the precise details of this Bill. The Bill is a revenue one; it is a Treasury Bill. As the Minister for Housing and Construction will know, I have one or two amendments which it was my intention to propose during the Committee stage of this Bill. I have had discussions with the Treasurer about them. He has accepted the substance of the amendments because savings banks, in the whole area of housing finance, have the most significant funds that are available to the public. The best funds that are available to the public are the ones available from savings banks. In general, funds in this area are available from savings banks, trading banks and permanent building societies, and second loans are available from finance companies. The Minister tabled a report entitled 'Six City Summary Survey' which showed that up to 70 per cent of funds available for housing are available through trading banks, permanent building societies or savings banks. But always at the centre of activity- always the most important funds, those that give character to the market- are the savings banks. 
I am delighted therefore that the Minister has sought to make these funds available through savings banks and their branches, which have experience and expertise over the length and breadth of this country. I have no argument with that, but in determining the allocation of these funds and in determining the reason why there is such a great credit squeeze in this nation, one or two other things have to be said. Very unhappily they have to be said in relation to the most prominent savings bank in the nation- the Commonwealth Savings Bank. Since July 1973 the Commonwealth Savings Bank has maintained an artificial credit squeeze in the administration of its own funds for housing. That is completely inexcusable. What the bank has shown and said since July 1973 is that it is more interested in buying bonds and in propping up the bond market. It gave the indication that there was a demand for bonds at a certain interest rate when it was not there. The sufferers in the exercise have been borrowers, especially from the Commonwealth Savings Bank. 
I will just cite one or two sets of figures and some details to make this fact quite explicit. During the year ended June 1974, the average percentage of the Commonwealth Savings Bank's funds available in assets for housing was 26 per cent. During the same year the private savings banks, which did not develop under the same historical tradition or the same charter, had an average of 34 per cent of their funds available in assets for housing. A squeeze was kept up in this area, and it was kept up in this area by the people's bank. That ought to be realised. The latest details available show that as at September the Commonwealth Savings Bank had only 28 per cent of its assets in loans for housing to modest borrowers for housing. Private savings banks had nearly 30 per cent of their assets available in loans for housing. 
So it is a legitimate question to ask the Commonwealth Savings Bank, which in many ways is an administrative arm of the Commonwealth Government, what it has been doing over the last 17 or 18 months. It has not been serving the best interests of its own people. This can be demonstrated in a far more explicit way by comparing the situation in the various States of Australia. It is obvious that some States have had this most crucial source of funds- savings bank fundsdenied them to a far greater extent than other States of the Commonwealth. What are the details? The 2 States which have suffered the most in not having savings bank funds available to them have been my own State of Queensland- the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  I know, is vitally interested in this because he has just come back from a tour throughout the north- and New South Wales. Latest figures available, those for September, show that my own State, which has nearly 1 5 per cent of the people in Australia and which had 18 to 20 per cent of the demand for housing in Australia, obtained less than 8 per cent of the funds available from savings banks for housing. At the same time, New South Wales, which should have received 35 per cent of savings banks funds available to it, received only 25 per cent. Those differences mean tens of millions of dollars. This position has persisted consistently during 1974. 
I hesitate to throw figures into the arena, but they have to be thrown in to substantiate a very vital charge which is being made. During most of this year my own State had only 9 per cent of savings banks funds around Australia available to it. New South Wales had only 24 per cent to 25 per cent available to it. During the past year, in terms of dollars, Queensland has been denied nearly $60m in savings bank funds for housing. New South Wales, the Minister's own State- I hope the Minister is paying attention- has been denied about $80m in funds for housing as compared with the rest of the nation. The result of those facts is simply that people in each of those States have been driven to dearer sources of finance. 
The crucial question is this: To what extent is the Commonwealth Savings Bank involved? It is a fact and I believe it is more than a coincidence that Queensland and New South Wales are the 2 States of the Commonwealth in which the Commonwealth Savings Bank dominates the savings bank field. Pushed forward by that reasoning, I have proposed 2 amendments to this legislation that I hope the Minister will consider. They are 2 important amendments. I hope that the note that the Minister has received can answer those charges, but I would doubt it. I would like to hear what he has to say about these 2 amendments during the Committee stages of the Bill. I am delighted that funds are allocated to the banks in proportion to their size or their depositors' accounts. I hope that the Minister will ensure that where there has been a shortfall of savings banks funds available to people in various States, within the allocation available to each bank extra funds will be made available for the people in those States. On this occasion New South Wales and Queensland are concerned. On other occasions other States will be concerned. That is the first amendment that I propose. 
The second amendment in fact follows the first. It simply says that if there is a shortfall of funds expended by March next year then the Minister will be able to direct those funds to the States which have been kept artificially short of savings bank funds in this area. In other words, if one were to make an index of those States which have been penalised most in terms of savings bank funds available for housing one would find that it has been my State of Queensland and New South Wales. I merely ask that within the principles involved in this Bill that the short fall, which I believe has been an artificial squeeze, be rectified. It ought to be rectified. The latest assets of the banks substantiate the proposition which I have put forward to the Minister. So if I were to summarise the aspects of this Bill I would say that they are simply these: It is unique, and it needs to be unique, because the Government has been faced with the situation which has faced no other government before in Australia's historycertainly not since the time that detailed data have been available in regard to housing. 
The Government knows as well as I do that this allocation could have been provided without the necessity of bringing a Bill into this House. That power existed. I am delighted to be able to participate in the public relations exercise, but in joining the Minister in relation to it 1 hope that he will answer a few of the very gentle and what I think are reasonably pertinent questions. After all, in its own way this is a welfare measure. 
We want to see that funds are allocated according to market conditions -in which the savings banks have had a lot of experience- in.those areas of Australia which have been deprived the most. When I mention the extent of this deprivation honourable members will see that it is not a small amount. It is a large amount. In relation to each of these areas it runs into tens of millions of dollars. I hope that the Minister is not unaware of what is going on in this field. He ought not to be. He has listed 10 initiatives which he has taken. I return to where I began. No matter what initiatives are followed in housing, no matter what new schemes are proposed, unless there is a reasonable balance in the economy the situation cannot be rectified. But even standing above this, unless interest rates are reasonable they can never be rectified. After all, interest rates are important to all. 
It is the cost of money which is important. For a government which says it wants price control, it is worth recalling that one cost which the Government can control throughout Australia and the one cost which it has power to control effectively throughout Australia is the cost of money. There is very little opportunity of taking that control away from the Government. The other day a Bill was presented here concerning exchange powers. It was made clear in that Bill that the Government can control any outside influences on the volume of money in Australia. It has been made clear here in terms of the administration of budgets and of the Reserve Bank of Australia powers that the Government has a wide and very pervasive control over the domestic money supply in Australia. It has a pervasive control and influence on capital markets in Australia. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was fond of saying when he was in Opposition, the Government has more financial powers centrally than most central governments -not Federal governments- in the world. 
I ask the Minister that when the administration of these funds are through and when the upturn has occurred in the industry- as I hope it has- that he will turn his mind once again to the matter of interest rates. This is a cost over which he can exert most significant control. Until interest rates come down to reasonable levels without significant rates of inflation there will not be the balance which one would desire in the industry. I give a foretaste of 2 amendments which I will move in Committee. I remind the Minister that the Treasurer has agreed in principle to the substance of the amendments. He has seen them. I shall talk about them at the appropriate stages of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-I have 2 amendments. I ask for leave to move the 2 amendments together. 
-I have not the advantage of being a lawyer but the social and legal consequences of this Bill are so great that I do not judge that fact to preclude me from expressing a view about it. In the first place I intend to express a view about the basis of the Bill and about some of the points that have been made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  I can understand his position and, were he to go some way along the road which will be contained in the amendments to the Bill- some of which I will propose- I would assume to have his vote in support. The first question to be asked in respect of this Bill- it is so obvious that it cannot be ignored- is: What is its conception of the family? The Bill concerns the Australian family. What is its view of that? 
I go for my answer to that question not to the former  Senator Murphy,  I go not to the present Attorney-General because he has admitted that he was not intimately acquainted with the substance of the Bill until a day or so ago, but I go to one of its principal architects. I think that it is acknowledged around Australia that he has been an unofficial adviser to the Government. I go to  Mr Ray  Watson Q.C., a Sydney silk, acknowledged to be a defender, an architect, almost a father of this Bill.  Mr Watson  and another architect of the Bill,  Mr Turner,  at the  Sir Thomas  More Society meeting in Sydney in late November 1974 were asked: 'What does the Bill do with respect to the family?' There are some quaint illogicalities between this view and a view later expressed. They were asked by a Sydney Q.C.,  Mr Gormly: 
The question I will then put in the light of  Mrs Lonergan  's remarks is this. What comments do  Mr Watson  and  Mr Turner  make on  Mrs Lonergan  's contention that the Bill in effect changes the structure of marriage? Because if a change in the structure of marriage is effected you have changed considerably the structure of Australian society. If you introduce a Hindu concept of marriage into Australian society it is a different one. If you introduce a Muslim concept of marriage you have changed Australian society considerably. What comment do you make on this? 

 Mr Turner, speaking on behalf of  Mr Watson,  had this to say: 
If I might say,  Mr Gormly,  the way you put that question, and one cannot run away from it, and within the terms that you used, I would say the answer to what you say is yes. 
There is a very fundamental change and alteration proposed in the nature of Australian society. So I was a little puzzled when the same gentleman, speaking on the radio program 'PM' the night before last, which in time is closer to the debate taking place on this Bill and when its contents are perused a little more closely, had this to say when asked what conception of family there was in the Bill: 
There 's no philosophic change in the concept of the family which I would see as one of the building bricks of society. 
So at least there is flexibility and changeability in the minds oi those who have proposed the Bill. They are certainly not sure of their philosophical grounds. I think it is appropriate and fair to go, as a source, to its defender and its originator. 
One other point that I would like to make in this regard concerns a comment made by  Mr Watson  who is a Sydney silk and therefore a legal luminary in these matters. He has this to say in terms of the advantages of the Bill: 
But more importantly, they're - 
Children, that is-  given the right to separate representation, and this is particularly necessary . . . 
That is one of the great new virtues proposed for the Bill. I mention that in passing. But  Mr Watson  knew that, in a case which came before  Mr Justice  Selby in Sydney more than a year earlier, that right was given on the interpretation of the present Act and that right has been given subsequently throughout the State. So virtues claimed for the Bill, if passed, are doubtful, and the philosophic nature of it has to rest in extreme doubt. I say no more than that, except to add that the argument that this Bill is merely a logical extension of what occurred in 1959- the Act came into operation in 1962- must be regarded with some doubt. It is not a simple, logical extension; it is a very radical and fundamental change, and it ought to be seen to be that very radical and fundamental change. 
I need to mention one other matter in this regard before I come to what would be the power house of the Bill and those sections of it which require sensitive matters of justice and fairness to be implemented. For the first time in Australian law and Australian practice, the Bill, in clause 6, recognises polygamy within Australian society. According to the proposed Australian law, a person going overseas, whether he is married or whether he is unmarried, can obtain a wife in a country which recognises polygamy, and that is recognised as a marriage for the purposes of Australian law. I merely point out those matters to indicate that if it is suggested that the Bill is merely a simple, logical extension of the present law and the present social structure such as we have known it, that is not the case. After all, divorce is based upon the precept that there is one marriage. If it breaks up another one may be negotiated. Polygamy does not even rest on that foundation. 
So,  Mr Speaker,  you can understand that not being a lawyer I do not intend to sit by and allow what I regard to be fundamental changes in Aus.tralian society and life to go without at least some legitimate content. Divorce is a dreadfully sad thing, and if it is to be dealt with it has to be dealt with in terms of sympathy, firmness, fairness and justice. I do not believe there is a person in this chamber who would want to go back to the arguments advanced just after the beginning of the second half of the nineteenth century. I do not want to do that and nobody else in this chamber would. Society has altered, but I have looked at what would be a fair thing under the precepts of this Bill. I refer to clauses 48 and 49 of the BUI. They are its powerhouse. They are the ones which contain the no fault provision, which is the package under which this Bm is sold. But what are the consequences of the application of that no fault provision? Let me give three, and I think it is appropriate to look at these. Imagine a marriage which may be very unhappy and in which one of the partners to it is guilty of behaviour that would not be acceptable in the Australian community. Let me mention the behaviour. Let us say that one of the parties to the marriage is guilty of incest, bestiality, sodomy or some other very grave misdemeanour. Under the present position a petition for divorce rightly can be served and once the ground is demonstrated the divorce is granted. Imagining the position of a woman in such circumstances, that is a fair comment and it is a fair practice. 
Under this BUI, except by way of some very complicated procedures which may or may not be valid, the other party to that marriage would just have to sit out the time, the 12 months, and the other party would be paying a price for the package of this BUI which has a so-called no fault concept. What the members of this House have to ask in their sense of justice is: Is that a fair proposition? Is that a valid proposition? Is that a proposition which would then enable them to say to what would be the guilty party in that situation: 'You have been a good law abiding citizen according to Australian law'. That is the power which this BUI gives, that is the power of judgment which this BUI would confer were Parliament to make that the practice in Australia. An amendment covering that situation will be moved in the Committee stages and honourable members in this House in their judgment will have to decide on the fairness of that proposition. 
I will mention two other consequences. They relate to the proposition that a 12 months separation, which can be a separation in mind, is all that is needed. When one looks at a 12 months period it seems to be very little longer than the period it takes from conception to the birth of a child. I will give an illustration of the events that can and will occur under this BUI. A child is conceived and, not on account of it but coincident in time with it, the male partner to the marriage says: 'I want to be separated'. So a separation occurs in mind and goes through the 12 months. At the 9-month stage the wife goes into a maternity hospital and has a baby. It might be a couple of weeks overdue and perhaps it is 916 months later. Within eight or nine weeks of that event whilst the mother is in the post-natal condition, whilst she may even be in the position of having what is termed post-natal madness, the problem that comes on women who have had a difficult childbirth, the 12 months is up. As soon as the courts can hear the case the computer comes down and the divorce is through. There is no point in her saying: 'Judge, I did no wrong. I tried to be a good wife. I have just had a baby'. The one test, and there is no other which is required, is the 12 month test. 
The honourable member for Moreton with his great sense of justice and knowledge agrees with that. What is to be proposed? What the honourable members in this chamber W111 have to decide is what is their sense of fairness and their sense of justice in that situation. They will have to decide ultimately whether that man- obviously I refer to a man in this case- is a good decent law-abiding citizen by the precepts of Australian law. That is the title which this BUI, if it becomes an Act, will enable you to pass upon people who participate in that situation. 
I will cite a third case to honourable members. It is proposed that this is a BUI that has a great deal to do with the equality of women. I do not want to scarify or mention  Mr Watson  again but he said in the interview for the 'PM ' radio broadcast that the BUI was a charter of equality. Consider the other case. On 1 January in a particular year the husband may get into that mental state that a separation is under way. They are young people who were married in their middle twenties. The separation continues whether or not they live in the one home, and whether or not the household services are performed one for the other- they are not defined in the BUI- but by the eighth month, perhaps by August, the wife is rather anxious to rebuild her marriage. Perhaps the husband is also. That is a fair proposition. So, anxious to rebuild the marriage in terms of clause 50 of the BUI they cohabit. Presumably, this means they sleep together again, which is fair enough. They are anxious to rebuild the marriage. They sleep together again for 3 months. At the end of October the husband may say: 'I have had enough of this. I have found somebody who is a little more interesting. I want to resume the separation'. Under the terms of this Bill, 8 months of the 12 months separation needed for the divorce have been served already. The husband has only to wait another 4 months until the end of February of the next year. The computer time has been set at 12 months. The marriage is over. The woman may have fallen pregnant. It is no good for that woman who is still carrying his baby saying: 'What have I done? I have tried to be a good wife. I have tried to be a good mother'. There is no point in her saying that because the one condition contained in this Bill has been satisfied, that is, the computer condition of 12 months separation, however determined. Consider the position of that woman. 
-But that is 3 months in 5 years which is very different from 3 months in 12 months. 
But this is computerised in the sense that this is the only test under this proposed legislation. The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  has raised a point that under this legislation, that is the only test. There is no qualification upon it. That has to be remembered. In June of the subsequent year when the woman has the child and is a patient in the maternity hospital, are honourable members going to say that that is divorce without indignity? Are honourable members going to say that that is divorce with justice? Are honourable members going to say that that is a fair go? Are honourable members going to say with respect to the person who may wilfully or otherwise have gone through this series of actions that he is therefore a good law-abiding Australian citizen, a very respectable Australian citizen? I merely put those cases. They are 3 cases which can occur and which will occur and which every divorce lawyer who has a practice in various capital cities of this nation, whom I have been able to consult, says will occur. I believe that very intimate and careful judgments have to be made with respect to these matters. 
During the committee stage of the Bill these cases will be explored and amendments will be proposed. They will not be amendments going back to the 1959 or 1962 legislation, but amendments which will allow a little more flexibility in respect of the time and the conduct of the marriage to be explored than occurs under this Bill. I believe that this Bill does not give the dependent partner in a marriage, whether a male or female- most often a female- sufficient guarantees. Are young people entering upon marriage to be asked to place themselves in that dependent position with respect to their work- to leave work- to place themselves in a dependent position of having a child or place them in a relatively dependent position of being home makers. I ask honourable members to ponder whether there are sufficient guarantees for women or for both partners of a marriage to enter into marriage. 
The principles contained in clause 43 of this Bill should be acceptable to everyone. But the principles in clause 43 have almost no effect because they are contrary to so many other clauses of the Bill. They are quoted by people. They are even quoted to public audiences by the eminent Sydney Silk. He knows, as every member of this House knows, that principles stated in that way contrary to the laws stated explicitly elsewhere have almost no effect. Every politician knows that when in a difficult situation and not wanting to give an answer, he might say: 'In principle I agree, while in substance he may arrive at a completely different decision. I have dealt only with two provisions but they are the power house clauses. They concern the nature of the marriage itself and make it clear that the package no fault is not a package that has any truth; that the socalled relegation of indignity and bitterness is not relegated. All that is done is that it is swept under the carpet and allowed to fester in the hearts, minds, activities and feelings of those who have been wronged, which in most cases is the dependent partner in a marriage. It certainly is not a Bill which has anything to do with the rights or equality of women in that situation. 
-The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  was towards the end of her speech rather mouthing a few political slogans, but the rest of her speech contained some interesting matters that deserve to be looked at. It is leaning into the wind a little, I think, to suggest that the present Government can claim virtue for its housing policy. The facts of life dispute that proposition, and dispute it very clearly and very cogently. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  in leading for the Opposition in the debate spent some few minutes, I understand, dealing with those propositions, and he stated the general position of the Opposition on those matters. I would not be one who would claim unadulterated virtue for past housing policy, but it was far more successful than has been the housing pOliCY administered over the last  Vh  years. Not a person in Australia could dispute that proposition. 
I will just spend one or two moments dealing with the past. It is always useful to look at the past even if only to stand on its shoulders so as to look a little bit further into the future. I will deal with one or two policies that have been proposed by the present Government, both when in Opposition and as a government. In 197 1 the famous 2 per cent interest reduction policy was brought forward, and that 2 per cent interest reduction policy which was enunciated at Launceston and which was promoted by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was found to be a mess and a giant failure. If there is one virtue that the Government can claim it is that before it came into Government it fled as quickly and as far as it could from that proposition. It was clearly a monstrosity. 
The Government has also made promises in relation to interest rates. I will say something that has been said in the past and which has to be said again: In total, housing cannot be dealt with unless interest rates are satisfactory. There is a simple equation: Reasonable interest rates make a reasonable housing policy possible; high interest rates make any housing policy extremely difficult to administer. If there is one overriding thing which has been an umbrella over the whole of the Government's housing policy it is what has happened in respect of interest rates. One illustration makes the point. For every 1 per cent rise in interest rates on a $10,000 mortgage over 25 years or 30 years, a person has to pay an extra couple of dollars a week for that period of time. That is how damning and how destructive interest rates can be. So low interest rates mean the possibility of a reasonable home ownership policy. 
The third proposition which the Government put forward- it was referred to by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  in a moment of lucidity- was in relation to its policy concerning tax deductibility for interest paid on home mortgage payments. I was always interested that the Government never referred this proposal to its Priority Review Committee. It knows that it is a regressive policy. It knows, as the honourable member for Bowman says, that it is not designed to help, nor does it help, those in the low income groups. It helps those people very little who build modest homes compared with those who build castles, and that point has to be acknowledged. 
-No, the Opposition does not officially oppose it. I am pointing out the regressive nature of the policy and that if a virtue is claimed by the Government in that it wants to help the battler in this world and those people in the low income groups, its policies deny thai fact. In an article in the 'Courier Mail' newspaper towards the end of 1 973 the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  came very close to admitting that fact. 
What is involved in this Bill? Having said those things, I do not say that the Bill is all vice. I think that it is capable of doing some very worthy things. But there have to be doubts. The doubts concerning the Bill relate to the precise proposals which the Housing Corporation is designed to administer. I am attracted to the proposition that the family allowances power in the constitution will be utilised in order to help certain families and certain classes of families who presently are not eligilbe to obtain the finance that is available. For example, I am convinced that there is an area of need between those people who can negotiate a loan from a cooperative building society and those who can negotiate a loan from a savings bank. There is a very big interest rate gap there. Insufficient attention is paid to such people because of different social circumstances judged according to levels of disposable income, judged according to levels of dependants, judged according to the circumstances of the repayments, the- years of repayments and the age of the people who desire the loans. If the Government can administer those areas correctly I will give it full marks, but it is precisely here that the very great doubts concerning this Bill project themselves. It is as vague a proposition as I have seen. With three or four, perhaps five, amendments it could be fixed and could be made more precise. 
-I never discuss what happens at Party meetings, as the Minister would know. The new areas designed to be covered by this Bill are set out in clauses 29, 30, 31 and 32. Each of those clauses has the same type of opening sentence. They are dealing with proposed loans by the Corporation, grants by the Corporation, sales by the Corporation and leases by the Corporation. Clause 29 says that 'the Corporation may, in accordance with regulations, lend money'. Clause 30 says that 'the Corporation may, in accordance with regulations, grant money'. Clause 31 says that 'the Corporation may sell a dwelling in accordance with regulations'. Clause 32 says that 'the Corporation may grant a lease of a dwelling in accordance with regulations. I suggest to the Minister- I acknowledge his goodwill in this respect and I would not for one moment deny it- that it would be far more appropriate if each of these clauses had said that the Corporation may grant or lend in accordance with legislation- not regulations. 
The new schemes are designed to help people to obtain second mortgages on land, by deferred payments on mortgages and so on. These imaginative new proposals could be beneficial to a lot of people. But what are the proposals? I do not think that schemes of this nature should be brought in by regulation. They should be brought in by legislation. That is a clear fact of life. It may be said that regulations are capable of being perused by this House, but regulations have not the capacity to be perused in the same way as legislation. When the Minister looks at these clauses I hope that he will consider those factors. The point I am making is that there is a need. The question uppermost in my mind is how that need will be satisfied. 
The Bill is a general Bill. It may be an administrative one which would gather under its umbrella all the housing areas which are at present administered by the Commonwealth Government, such as housing for Aborigines, certain immigration procedures and defence service homes. The innovative measures, which are very vague, deserve to be spelt out with some precision. Regulations are unsatisfactory in that respect as a means of merely handing over power. I hope that in his reply the Minister will deal with these matters in some detail. They deserve to be dealt with in detail. If the Bill works it will work well. But one has to look at the present state of the industry to which this Bill is proposed to apply. I was fascinated to read some days ago that the Minister claimed great virtue for the fact that the level of housing activity in Australia and the level of housing approvals were rising. If one looks at the latest details, which apply up to December last year, one will find that there has been a gentle rise. But there is no virtue in claiming that a halfhearted resurrection has occurred when the Government has beaten the industry half to death. After all, that rise has developed from the steepest decline in the level of housing activities ever registered in this country. That is a significant statement to make. 
I say to the Minister that whilst this Bill may contain some virtues and may be able to do a great deal, we want to know what it is proposed to do, to whom it will apply, how the bans will apply, how the grants will apply, how the second mortgage schemes will apply and to what classes of persons deferred payment mortgage schemes will apply. It just cannot be left there. Other clauses of this Bill need to be cleared up in order to give some source of confidence to the industry and to those people in Australia who are at present wanting homes. 
Having dealt with some of the factors of this Bill in the few minutes available to me- I will advert to them later when the clauses are discussed at the Committee stage- I put a question to the Minister. It relates to the Bill which was presented to this House towards the end of last year. At that time the Government imaginatively proposed a Bill which was designed to distribute $150m to savings banks to boost the housing industry. The Minister will recall that on that occasion I made a plea that those States in which the availability of funds for housing had declined most should receive some compensating benefit. He will recall that on that occasion I pointed out that, due to the operation particularly of the Commonwealth Savings Bank, 2 States had been deprived of one of the most valuable sources of finance for housing- savings bank funds. Those 2 States were Queensland and New South Wales. I ask the Minister whether he can indicate the distribution to the States of the $150m for housing. I want to know how it has been distributed and whether on the understanding of the Treasurer at the time, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  almost in the midst of a handing over operation - 
He was in the midst of a taking over operation. I want to know how those funds have been distributed and whether they have been distributed to make up for the drastic short fall that was occurring in various parts of Australia. I ask that because in any part of this country when savings bank funds are not available people are inevitably driven to much higher cost sources of finance. It is no mistake or accident, I believe, that in those areas where savings bank funds have not been available people have had to have recourse more than elsewhere to funds from the finance companies at a 3 per cent, 4 per cent, 5 per cent or 6 per cent hike in interest rates. Nobody could disagree with the aim of this Bill. It is supposed to be opposed to the private industry sector where it presently does not apply. We want to know the precise proposals to assist in this area. We want to be assured that it will not displace State housing commissions, nor is it intended to displace State housing commissions I do not believe it will. I do not believe it is capable of displacing State housing Commissions. Nevertheless that is not the principal reason the honourable member for Boothby, leading for the Opposition, indicated the Opposition's attitude to this Bill. We stand behind him in that respect. 
There are other unanswered questions. I put another proposition to the Minister. In clause 40 of this legislation there is a rate of return payable on account of the funds which are allocated to the new Corporation, and I would like to know what rate of return will be appropriate to the funds allocated to the Housing Corporation. Will the Minister make a distinction in the rate of funds which are returned according to whether they are defence service home funds or funds utilised for the other purposes for which the Corporation, under this Bill, when and if it becomes an Act, would become an administrative organisation. I think this almost strikes at the crux of the question concerning the whole operation of the proposed Australian Housing Corporation. 
One other matter deserves to be mentioned. There has always been concern in Australia when the rate of housing activity has declined. That has applied in the past and it applies today. I would hope that those who look to the future level of activity in the housing industry peruse the Borrie report very closely. I hope that they have other plans for the housing industry in Australia because if the facts contained in the Borrie report are correct and if the appropriate priorities are applied to the projections made in that report, one can look forward to a steep decline in the total overall level of activity in the Australian housing and building industry from the late 1970s. 
Unless people are going to be persuaded to build two homes instead of one and unless that is going to occur en masse, rather than spasmodically as it does at present, the total level of activity in the housing and building industry needs to be perused. I would hope that the Minister, with the committee that he has set up under an eminent academic, will make proposals in these areas having as first priority- not the second- the position of the Australian community. The Minister, I am sure, will take those suggestions to heart. 
I revert to the principal problems that one sees in this legislation. The principal problems are the vagaries of the legislation. Regulations are designed to be the heart of it and to indicate what all future activity is about. We want to know what interest rates are proposed for the lending operations. We want to know why the class of Australians to whom this Bill will apply has been expanded so widely beyond the classes already served by the Commonwealth Government. I am excepting, in that respect, the use of the family allowances provision. I refer in that respect to clause 6 (3) (d) and clause 6 (3) (e). The latter clause is wide and makes the activities of this Corporation almost limitless. It states in part: 
The Corporation may perform its functions ... for any purpose of Australia or an authority of Australia. 
I would like the Minister to explain the precise meaning of that phraseology and of that paragraph. I would wish the Bill well if it could be amended in great substance. I suspect that it will not be; I suspect that it cannot be. Above all, promises can roll off the tongue very easily. I would like some substances spelled into the vagueness of some of the promises made in the Minister's second reading speech. 
I will not keep the Committee more than a few moments. During his previous comments, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  pointed up one of the great inadequacies of this Bill. That inadequacy has already become apparent as a result of the first amendment which the Government has moved. It ought to be remembered that this Bill hardly lay on the table for any time before the Government proposed a whole series of major amendments to it. In the words of the first amendment, a reference to lending or granting of moneys for the building or purchase of a dwelling or of land to be used for a dwelling:   includes a reference to the lending or granting of money for the repayment of a loan to which this sub-section applies. 
In a word, this clause is supposed to enable clause 3 to apply in respect of second mortgage loans and 'buying-out' second mortgages. 
I wish to ask the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  some questions. To what extent will this occur? What size mortgages will be bought out? What interest rate is to be charged on the money which will be lent for the purpose of buying out these mortgages? To what extent will it occur that money contributed in this way at a certain interest rate, which is undefined, will merely be in substitute for money already lent for the purpose of these mortgages to people who will substitute one form of finance for another? I remind the Minister- he might check with his officers in this respect- that one of the great problems with the War Service Homes Act for many years and in the Defence Services Homes Act has been the desire by many people to obtain a loan or an advance for the purpose of buying out an existing loan or advance. Many years ago governments decided that this was not a valid or a Udt exercise of powers. Under this provision, how does the Minister apply what he proposes in respect of this Bill to the requirements of the Defence Service Homes Act? 
I think that he will recognise immediately that this is quite relevant to the clause to which I am referring. To what extent will this provision negative and cut across the provisions of the Defence Service Homes Act which in some respects is in direct contradiction to the provision which he proposed to insert in the Bill. I believe that it is appropriate that we know, as we want to know, above aU, what are the schemes and what are the precisions of the schemes. We do not want vague words like 'initiatives' and 'imagination'. What are the precisions of the schemes which are meant to apply under this clause and other clauses? I will be delighted if the Minister will answer that question rather precisely and without using the words 'initiative', 'imagination' and 'new schemes'. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) (b), after 'dwellings' insert 'in accordance with the requirements of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918-1975;' 
This is a very short amendment which I suggest the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  might consider. The purpose of the proposed amendment can be expressed in a few words. I hope the Minister will consider it in the light of what I have to say in the next three or four minutes. The Corporation is to have a multitude of very wide functions. As the legislation stands at the moment one of its functions set out in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (2 ) is:  to build dwellings or take pan in, or be associated with, the building of dwellings. 
That sounds innocent enough. However the Corporation would be able to build dwellings for Commonwealth employees, migrants, students, those who are in receipt of family allowances for these purposes and those who are also in receipt of advances or loans from the Director of Defence Service Homes. Therefore the Corporation would have a far wider capacity to build dwellings than currently exists. This power would enable the Corporation to be set up as a very large construction authority. I do not believe that ought to be so. I do not believe that it is intended to be so. Such a body would be in competition with so many other organisations. It certainly would not function more efficiently than the other organisations. 
-I refer the honourable  member to the words in the Minister's second reading speech. The whole character of the speech was rather to disavow that possibility. The words used by the Minister in his second reading speech and in his closure of the second reading debate were designed to indicate that he did not want to have undue government or public authority interference in the building and construction of dwellings. This part of the legislation would allow that to occur. I know that the Director of the Defence Service Homes has that capacity in a number of sections of the Defence Service Homes Act under which he operates, namely, sections 17, 18, and so on. I ask theMinister to consider the amendment. The amendment would have the effect of making an exception which has existed for many decades under the War Service Homes Act- I refer to the old title of the Act- and would effectively exclude the Corporation from engaging in the construction of dwellings for all the other purposes which the Minister hopes the Corporation would exist. 
-I accept the Minister's assurance in respect of this matter, and of course the chamber would have to accept his assurance because the Government has the numbers. I was just trying to ensure that his assurance had legislative backing. The interesting fact is that the assurance is given by him but he will not allow it to have the appropriate backing which would give it substance. There is nothing more absurd than to say that this Housing Corporation must have the power of a building construction authority right throughout Australia because there may be a requirement to build a dwelling in a remote part of the Torres Strait Islands. Dwellings are built in those places now and they are built without the assistance of this Corporation. I am disturbed and amazed that the Minister should come forward with such a trite and foolish explanation for retaining this provision in clause 6. The explanation is nonsense and it has rather, I believe, exposed the ultimate intention of the Minister. With the greatest of goodwill I was willing to believe the words in the second reading speech, but the refusal to consider this type of amendment has caused me to realise that the words are intended to belie the ultimate administration of this Housing Corporation. 
Amendment negatived. 
-The minutes tick by. I am most sympathetic personally to the use of this power contained in placitum 23a in respect of housing. I am most sympathetic to the use of the family allowances power in respect of housing. A great deal of flexibility- and surprising flexibility- can apply to the Commonwealth Government in the use of this power. I am not one who believes that because such powers lie within the States, therefore the Commonwealth ought not to avail itself of the fact that they are there. 
Adverting to the substance of the Bill- that is all that I can do at the moment- I would suggest that there are 5 clauses which need substantial amendment. It seems to me that, in this Bill, an attempt has been made to go around and to grab every piece of power with respect to housing that it was possible to grab and to incorporate those powers in one piece of legislation. But to grab every piece of power and to put it in one piece of legislation without indicating the purposes for which such powers will be used is beyond common sense and, I believe, is beyond the current mood of the Australian people. 
The 5 clauses to which I wish to direct a very few words are clauses 29, 30, 31, 32 and 40. 
Clause 29 allows the Corporation to make loans. Clause 30 enables it to make grants. Clause 3 1 permits the Corporation to make sales. Clause 32 permits the Corporation to make leases. Each of these clauses indicates that the Corporation may do all of these things in accordance with regulations. What is proposed is that quite major pieces of social initiative in Australia are to lie in respect of regulations. I believe that they should lie in respect of legislation. It should only be in legislation that these few departures ought to be contemplated. That is said by one who is sympathetic to the purposes of the Bill. 
The otherclause is clause 40, which provides that the capital of the Corporation requires that an interest be paid at certain times and on such conditions as the Treasurer would determine. I suggest that as the capital of the Corporation is derived from 2 sources- it is derived in one sense from the surpluses or from an amount contributed to it for the administration of defence service homes or the old war service homes- a rate of interest be chargeable by the Treasurer in accordance with the rate of interest which is charged to borrowers under the old War Service Homes Act and under the Defence Service Homes Act. A characteristic of that legislation since the years just after the First World War is that it has been unique in terms of the interest rate charged. When capital is contributed to the Corporation from such sources, a differential rate of interest ought to be charged on the capital utilised for the purposes of administering defence service homes. I think this proposal is clearly in line with common sense. 
The capital which is donated, subvented or funded to the Corporation by the Treasury ought to attract a different rate of interest. I believe that this rate of interest should be one which is presently below savings bank interest but above home builders account interest. By utilising differential interest rate provisions one can ensure that this Corporation will not be used to destroy every competing private organisation in Australia, and it would be enabled to do that were it allowed to have undue advantages and foolish advantages in terms of the interest rates which it would charge to the Treasury. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the proposed development of the Government's health scheme- the one which is euphemistically called Medibank. I ask the Prime Minister: In the arrangements being negotiated with the States concerning the hospital- that is the government or public hospitals- aspects of Medibank are assurances included which would guarantee that any relief given to State budgets by a Commonwealth contribution would be disregarded so far as a claim at State's application to the Grants Commission is concerned or, that a claimant State would not be penalised in its special grants due to the Government's scheme. If necessary, to ensure that there is no penalty will the Prime Minister seek to bring about an appropriate amendment to the Grants Commission Act? 
It is not my intention to take too great a length of time over this matter, but it is important because of the principles that are contained in this legislation. I am not able to speak with a very intimate knowledge of the car industry in Australia but these Bills are important for 2 reasons. Firstly, this is the third of a series of measures that has been introduced in respect of a very great and a very large industry in Australia. So this legislation is important because this is the third measure in a series which are in fact the Government's own picture view of disaster in the Australian economy. The second reason which I want to advert to a little later is the effects of the flight back to very great protectionism within the Australian ecomony of which these measures are a symptom. 
The motor vehicle industry, as was to be expected, reflects the general trend of activity and of economic activity within the Australian economy. No matter what alibis are produced it is quite clear that this industry in Australia suffered a downturn in terms of its own production and in terms of the registration of cars which coincided with the downturn in the Australian economy. Alibis have attempted to be created by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  but they are just not there. The motor vehicle industry went down as did other industries. It was not because of something special or different. For example, the decline in registrations occurred from the end of October. The decline in motor vehicle manufacture occurred during the month of November and it has continued since then. What is happening at the present time one is not able to say but it appears that this decline will gradually rise. Registrations went down from the end of October. The number of registrations declined as everything else went down and as all the indicators of production in Australia went down. Imports did not decline until December and January, so the Government itself decided to take quite massive and quite unique measures to resuscitate the car industry and save between 5000 and 8000 jobs of those people who would be directly affected as a result of the decline in this industry. Those jobs needed to be protected and insofar as the Government in this country still subscribes to the 1945 White Paper on full employment, the most solemn pact, the most solemn social contract which a Government can give to the people in this country, it had an obligation to assist the car industry and assist it it did. 
It assisted the industry in 3 ways. This is the third way. It assisted the car industry in terms of the increases in tariff proposed during November. It assisted the industry in respect of the quota restrictions on imports from the middle of January. Now the Government is proposing to assist the car industry in terms of sales tax reductions and subsequent increases which are designed to increase demand in the short term. Fair enough, but there are some questions that need to be asked. The questions that need to be asked are in terms of the philosophy of the Government. What is being done is completely contrary to the philosophy on which this Government was elected and on which it proposed to act during 1973-74. Its philosophy then- it was a correct philosophy- was that Australia should do most what it can do best. It was a magnificent proposition. 
When the Government made the 25 5 per cent across the board tariff cut there were those who raised their voices in horror. I was not a member of this Parliament at the time and insofar as I was able to advise some people whose voices are heeded, particularly in the north, I sought to persuade them not to protest against the cutting of the tariffs. The tariff cut was done in a gross manner. It was done in a guache manner. That was the error, but it was not the primary error. The primary error was that the Government misunderstood its own philosophy. If it was to persuade Australians to do most what they can do best and if the cutting of the tariffs was part of that proposition it had to allow an as free as possible reallocation of resources, both material and human, within the Australian economy. Were that to occur the standard of living today would be higher and employment would be fuller. There was a philosophical clash because a socialist government, a naturally interventionist government, could not stand aside and allow that kind of circumstance to occur. The proposition that resources should move freely to areas in which they could be used for the best production and to produce the most was contrary to the attitudes of the Government which of its nature and of its philosophy had to intervene in the economy. So the Government was caught on a philosophy which it could not uphold and we have the dreadful downturn which has occurred and this quite dreadful downturn that has occurred in respect of the motor vehicle industry. 
Three measures have been taken and they have been quite massive. What I am saying is that the symptom of disease in the car industry applies to such a large industry that it is almost the disease itself. What was the extent of the massive assistance which the Government proposed in respect of the car industry and of which this is the third measure and therefore appropriate to consider? They were the sales tax propositions, the tariff propositions and the quota propositions. One question to be asked- it is very important- is: If one is possessed with the proposition as to how much has been reallocated, what is the change in the net subsidy equivalent of what is being proposed for the car industry? It has to be appreciated that the result of those 3 measures- and sales tax is difficult to evaluate- amounts to an increase in a net subsidy equivalent of over $100m a year to that industry. That is a massive amount of money. It is in fact part of the flight back to protectionism on the part of this Government. 
A couple of points need to be made. That means that the subsidy for the average car worker directly involved in the industry in AustraliaI refer to the published comments of the Industries Assistance Commission on various options open to the Government- is now approaching $3,000 a year. Fair enought. Let that remain. It also means that the subsidy per car worker employed because of these measures but who would not have been employed had these measures not been taken is $10,000 to $12,000 a year. It is a very great amount of assistance indeed. We might well ask who is paying, not only as regards the amounts of money involved but also as regards the economic effects on this. It should be remembered that under these circumstances the States are paying for the car workers who are being re-employed. The States are paying for the assistance, the managers, the capital the entrepreneurs as well as the workers. Those resources come from the States of Australia which are the principal exporting parts of this Commonwealth. 
The re-allocation of resources involved is not small; the effects on the economy are not small. They are in fact very great. When this is considered together with the other increases in protection that have occurred to the clothing industry, to tyre manufacturers, and proposed assistance for white goods and so on, the States of Australia that will be paying more per person employed than others will be my own State, Western Australia, and to a certain extent Tasmania. When protectionism re-occurs within the Australian economy it should be appreciated which parts of the Commonwealth are going to pay. Those parts are paying at the present time. 
Therefore, one can understand that when the Premier of Queensland tries to make a deal with respect to coal exports in order to guarantee that the return from coal exports does have a significance within his own State, it is a reasonable policy. It is trying to return some of the benefits of an exporting industry to those regions and those communities in Australia which are in fact paying for exports because ultimately with high and rising protectionism it is the export industries and the export regions which have to pay. It also means that the worker in those export industries, be they coal or be they meat, is placed in a far more vulnerable position in. being exposed- it applies to Tasmania in many respects as well- unadulteratedly to the whims of world competition. He is in a far more vulnerable position than workers in a number of States who are in protected industries. It is only concerning the reallocation of those resources that I desire to say something. 
This is not to be understood that I am in any way against protectionism. It is to be understood with the re-allocation of resources that those who pay for protection should be known and the facts publicised. Australia should be aware of those parts of the Commonwealth which are bearing the principal burden. It so happens that some of the export industries that have declined most and some of those States which have declined most in terms of employment opportunities are the ones which, in terms of their own natural industrial structures, are paying the biggest price for the reversion to protectionism in this nation. Above all, it ought to be appreciated that a flight back to protectionism is in fact a flight of defeat for a Government which said it wanted no part of it. So I have proposed and will continue to propose that in these circumstances there ought to be a resurrection of the Inter-State Commission in order to evaluate between States of the Commonwealth the benefits and the burdens of the tariff structure. In a protected country that is having difficulty in re-allocating its resources this is a most reasonable proposition and one which ought to be considered. No State, for example, can be expected to be the pliant, silent victim of a hands-off resources diplomacy, especially when it is shouted continually from the roof tops that the application of that resource diplomacy means the flight of resources away from that State. This applies particularly in respect of the basic resource and the basic development States in Australia which are Queensland, Western Australia and, to a significant extent, Tasmania. So, the distortions which are introduced here ought to be exposed and they ought to be known. 
I conclude by saying this: I believe that full employment in Australia will come when this country in fact does most what it does best. It is a slogan created by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland).  It was obviously told to him because he does not understand it. In fact those industries which have been providing the greatest increases in employment over recent years have been some of those that have been under the least amount of protection. The Inter-State Commission- I have put this to the Government and I have put it to the Parliament- ought to be resurrected. It ought to be resurrected particularly under these circumstances, and above all, it ought to be resurrected to account for the conditions into which we will get and pre-eminently to indicate that there is equality of sacrifice and equality of burden in an increasing protectionist Australia between the regions of Australia which are receiving protection and those regions which are ultimately and in fact paying for it. 
What has happened to the car industry is a microcosm of what has been happening with respect to the total country and the significance of the burdens, the significance of the net subsidies that are paid, ought to be made known so that there can be an allocation of resources which will result in standards of living being raised more quickly in a country which can enjoy increasing full employment. 
-My concern is with the subject of broadcasting. It relates to some events which are occurring or are about to occur in Adelaide. It is about a possible concentration of interests in broadcasting and, what is more aggravating in this respect, a possible concentration of political interests. It is quite clear that from the earliest days of broadcasting in this country there has always been a concern by governments, by way of legislation, to spread the interests in respect of broadcasting and, certainly, television. Section 90C of the Broadcasting and Television Act makes it quite clear that a person shall not have a prescribed interest in the licence of more than one metropolitan broadcasting station in any State. That section also indicates the number of stations within a State and throughout Australia in which a person may have an interest. For the purposes of the Act 'a person' is also defined as a company which has a direct or indirect control over those stations. Carrying the matter a little further in respect of television, the Royal Commission on Television in 1 954 made it quite clear that it set its face against an involvement, directly or indirectly, by any political party in television. At page 95 of its report the Royal Commission had this to say: 
We would add, however, that in our opinion it would be most undesirable for licences to be granted to representatives of political parties whilst conditions exist which severely limit the number of stations established in any one area. 
Those 2 points make it clear that it is a concentration of interests, certainly a political arrangement in the concentration of those interests, that has to be of concern in the dissemination, the distribution and the awarding of media licences throughout Australia. 
I return to the situation in Adelaide. In what I have to say I am suggesting nothing improper in terms of the interests of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I hope that that is understood. I am concerned with the principle of what may occur. It is quite clear that in that city there is to be a new broadcasting licence awarded. One of the applicants for that licence is Festival City Broadcasters Pty Ltd. Two questions arise in respect of that organisation. Firstly, does it offend against the spirit of the Act as interpreted over the years? Secondly, if a licence were awarded to that body would its awarding not offend against the true intent of what has been of concern in the interpretation of that Act since the late 1930s and certainly explicitly since 1942? The Australian Labor Party has what has been judged to be a significant interest in one broadcasting station in Adelaide- 5KA, or is it 5AK? 
-It is significant enough to be of concern to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board under the Act. The Labor Party was asked whether it was interested in making another application. For one reason or another it was not. That having occurred, that interest was then taken to a body which is very closely associated with the Labor Party and which has an effective interlocking directorate with the Labor Party- the Trades and Labour Council of South Australia. That body, through its unions, has been prompted and invited to take an interest in Festival City Broadcasters. Through a number of unions it has at the present time a 20 per cent or 25 per cent interest in Festival City Broadcasters, which has made an application for the new licence that is to be awarded to Adelaide. 
The question to be asked- it is a very important one- is: If a licence were awarded to Festival City Broadcasters would the awarding of that licence offend against the spirit of the Act and the true intent of the Act? I believe that it would offend against the true intent of the Act because it is clear from the way in which a letteragain I suggest not an improper one- from the honourable member for Adelaide was disseminated that, having been refused an interest in the new station by the Australian Labor Party Executive, he went to another and an affiliated rallying point, that is, the Trades and Labour Council. Some things were said in that letter which I think were better not to have been said. They are important to this point and they need to be made known. I refer to his second letter. I want it to be understood that I am not imputing improper motives to the honourable member for Adelaide. 
-I will read in context the appropriate parts of the letter and the appropriate parts of a telegram. The appropriate letter of 25 November had to say, in 2 parts, that the effective rallying point for the new station was to be a form of political propaganda. I read the following words from the letter 
I have reason to believe that it will be the successful applicant for the fourth commercial radio licence because the Government and the Broadcasting Control Board, from what I can gather, are anxious that the station should not be an anti-Labor one and because the Company has amongst its directors the necessary expertise to ensure a successful operation. 
Again I say that the rallying point is a political organisation which has a majority, a controlling, interest in another body which has a controlling interest in its own station in Adelaide. I believe that those matters ought to be investigated and investigated very clearly by the Board. 
I have raised this matter because I am concerned in another way about the hearings that occurred in respect of the application by Festival City Broadcasters. I believe that some insults were offered to the Board for which it did not require apologies and I am concerned, without making any specific allegations in terms of the membership of the Board, that it may be leaning over backwards not to offend those who have made an application on behalf of Festival City Broadcasters. This is a matter that ought to be investigated. The nature of the control of both organisations deserves to be looked at extremely closely. After all, both of what I would say are the rallying points and what could be the controlling interests in both stations as defined by the Act require obedience from their affiliated members, affiliated organisations and constituent parts. When there are interlocking directorates which comprise similar people from the constituent parts we are in serious trouble. 
This is important because the media have become so important in this nation. They have assumed a position from which they can influence crucially the ideas and values of a whole people. The dissemination of control and the lack of concentration of control in the media are things whose significance cannot possibly be overestimated. When there is a doubt, even the slightest doubt- I believe there is more than the slightest doubt- that such a dissemination of interest cannot and will not occur in Adelaide if this licence is awarded in this way, the matter needs to be brought forward, and precise investigations, certainly more than have so far occurred in terms of the hearings of the Broadcasting Control Board, need to be pursued. So far they have not been pursued. 
A number of us have been concerned about what I consider to be a lack of balance in some of the broadcasts of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Some of us have been concerned about the very quick changing of membership of the Broadcasting Control Board. We were concerned about the attempt to introduce Bills into this Parliament last year to terrorise independent media in Australia. I believe that in order to clear the air the nature of the controls, of the rallying points, for each of these applications- the one that exists now and the one for the controlling interest in station 5KA- deserves to be investigated by the Board, and more questions should be asked than the Board has so far asked in respect of the application by Festival City Broadcasters. The matter concerns much more than Adelaide. It concerns the whole of the Commonwealth and the whole of the media industry within this country. 
I wish to make one or two comments and I shall not keep the Committee very long. I am appalled at the proposition put forward by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  because he is in most things a generous and fair minded person. 
-No. We give him goodwill. We hand out large hunks of goodwill to the Minister, and he deserves it on occasions. But he does not deserve it for this. The Government's proposal not only will affect people in the back blocks of Australia but it will effectively debar from voting or having a postal vote any person who is unable to attend at an electoral office on the Friday before the Saturday of the poll- that is, at any time after 6 p.m. on the Thursday. The proposal simply means this: A woman who may be pregnant and does not know precisely on what day she will have to go into hospital may have to go to hospital late on the Thursday. She would not be able to attend the electoral office in time to cast a postal vote and therefore she would be debarred from voting. In the words of the proposed amendment she would be debarred because she was not able to attend in person at an electoral office on the day before the poll. Any person who falls sick on the eve of an election or within 36 hours of the beginning of the election day would be effectively debarred from voting. 
I suggest to the House and to any fair-minded person that that is not a reasonable proposition. That would be the effect of the amendment. The one great characteristic of the Australian voting system, which has been denigrated, rubbished and criticised, is that it is the only voting system in the world which is designed to guarantee that nobody is elected unless he gets 50 per cent plus one of the votes. It is the only electoral system in the world which guarantees that position. Why should there be generated artificial criticisms of a system which is different from other voting systems of the world, which has proven to be more perfect and better than other voting systems and which shows the world how a voting system should be developed? There is a greater awareness of electoral responsibilities, the obligation to vote and the capacity to vote in Australia and in its States than in other parts of the world. Why is it the Government's intention to regress on that situation? What is happening seems to be a fashionable proposition to destroy and to rubbish the Australian legend with respect to voting. A particular ethos- a characteristic and a traditionhas been built up, but the Government wants to tear that aside. 
This proposed amendment has in it the ingredients to destroy the proposition that nobody can be elected in Australia unless they receive 50 per cent of the votes plus one vote. The Government is seeking to provide by this legislation that a person can be elected with less than 50 per cent of the votes. That can occur in the United States, in the United Kingdom and in nearly every other voting system in the world, whether they have voluntary voting systems or whether they do not have compulsory preferential voting systems. Why do we want to go back to such a system when we have perfected a system which is the envy, and ought to be the envy, of all those who say a majority of the people in any country should be the ones to determine its government? I am appalled in general at the proposals put forward by the Government. I am particularly appalled at the threat to the people who live outside the capital cities, who live within large conurbations of population and who have the misfortune to fall sick suddenly on the eve of an election- within 36 hours or more of the beginning of the election day. I am appalled at the attempt to deprive these people of their right to vote. I am appalled that it should be said to them: 'We can no longer provide the capacity to accommodate you. You may be sick on a certain day, but that is bad luck. You may expect a baby on a certain day but that is bad luck also. You are out of our consideration and out of our mind '. 
No democratic government or government that respects the democratic system itself or the right of each person to vote could possibly support that principle. I can say only that the Minister for Services and Property, who has been good at getting votes himself, has had this proposition put on him by someone else. He did not know what he was doing. I am sure he is not aware of the consequences of his proposition. The Minister has a fine Irish name, 'Frederick Michael Daly'. He is a man of some Celtic descent and people of that origin always have an acute and sensitive sense of justice and fairness. I appeal to the Minister to repair his ways. I am sure this proposal has been put on him by his own Caucus. I would not say that it has been put on him by his own advisers but he should tear himself away from those advisers and examine the Bill with his own sense of fairness and against his own background. 
-The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has set out the Opposition's case very explicitly and very well. Honourable members on this side of the chamber support him. In his speech the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  made it quite clear in nearly every paragraph that the intention of the legislation relates to transport, and transport alone. It is to be extended to cover one or two other areas but it relates predominantly to transport. So the definition of 'goods' which is contained in clause 3 is much wider than would be understood from the Minister's speech or from the speeches of those who have been responsible for the Government's introducing this legislation. After all, what is involved in the Commission is an enormous grant of power, and the Opposition is concerned to ensure that this power be utilised for the purposes for which the Government claims it wants the power. I refer to the statment by  Sir John  Quick in the debate on the original Inter-state Commission Bill in 1 9 12. He said: 
I have always believed, and I still believe, that this grant of power to the Inter-State Commission is a very important grant of power, and that there is in these apparently simple words relating to trade and commerce an enormous grant of power, a reserve force of power, the magnitude and importance of which probably even the framers of the Constitution in launching it hardly realised. But these grants of power, when analysed from the juridical standpoint, are pregnant with meaning and potentiality. 
All the Opposition is concerned to do is to ensure that these grants of power have relation to the purpose for which the Bill has been introduced into the House. I believe that that is an eminently reasonable line to take. After all, when a Minister makes a second reading speech in this House we understand that the Bill which follows the speech purports to put into operation what was stated in the speech. It is for that reason that the definition of 'goods' is proposed to be altered and deleted by the Opposition in accordance with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I believe that in moving this amendment the honourable member for Gippsland is holding to the precise terms under which the Bill has been proposed twice in public places and once in this House by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones). 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls  ) proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
-This Bill is a most important piece of legislation and it affects a probably unique body in any federation in the world which exists to look after the financial fortunes of the constituent parts of that federation. In other words, the Grants Commission exists, and has existed for over 40 years, to look after the affairs, the services and the standards available to the citizens in each of the States within the Australian Federation. The Commonwealth Grants Commission is not repeated in any other pan of the world, nor has any body in any other part of the world attained the same expertise as the Grants Commission has developed in Australia. It is for that reason that I speak to this Bill. 
The Bill is very short and seeks to amend the principal Act by appointing a new  Chairman  to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The appointment of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell as  chairman  of the Commission deserves one or two comments. One of those comments is of necessity a rather sad comment.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell is a lawyer. He was a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales for a considerable period. No doubt, he is an eminent lawyer. He has been appointed to the chairmanship of the most complex body dealing with complex inter-governmental financial relationships that exist in this country and I suggest that it is not appropriate that a person with the training of a lawyer be appointed to the Commission.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell succeeds as  chairman  of the Commonwealth Grants Commission  Sir Leslie  Melville who was an economist and banker of international repute.  Sir Leslie  has not been followed by a person of similar standing or training. In fact, if the same logic were used in regard to an appointment to the next vacancy on a Supreme Court or the High Court of Australia one might look to the profession of accountant. However, it is not my purpose tonight to pursue that line; I mention it only en passant. 
What are the results of the operation of the Grants Commission? A sense of equality has been pursued and developed amongst the various States in Australia which has not been repeated anywhere else in the world. A monumental study some years ago by the famous economist Williams in Chicago pointed out that the diversity of standards, the dispersion of standards of living and of public services in Australia are less between one part of the country and another than in any other nation in the world. The work was a monumental tour de force which examined the great nations, the large federations of the world such as Canada and the United States of America, as well as some of the very small nations with their own distinct and distinctive regions. The existence of that equality and the lack of dispersion of standards in Australia can be ascribed very largely to the work of the Grants Commission, especially insofar as the work of the Commission involved the determination of grants as between the States. As we know, the Commission has determined over the last 2 years- it did so for the first time last year- that the standards that applied were to apply in respect of local government authorites. Even an attempt to pursue a measure of fiscal equalisation or a similar equalisation of standards between the local government authorities in Australia must fail because of its nature. It cannot be done. 
I would suggest that no matter how many extra appointments are made to the Commission, it will not be able to fulfil in respect of local government authorities what it has been able to fulfil in respect of sovereign State governments. That point has almost been acknowledged, and it has been made quite clear in the first work undertaken by the Commission in relation to local government authorities. But if one would think for a moment that the work of the Commission is going to be a bed of roses, a little history would quickly dispel that proposition. For many years Tasmania had a very famous Treasurer by the name of  Mr Dwyer  Gray. Tasmania was one of the original mendicant States applying to the Grants Commission and, when the Commission did not make an appropriate grant for Tasmania,  Mr Dwyer  Gray said of the members of the Commission that he 'would not care a straw if the Grants Commission were abolished, or if the members so took offence that they resigned in a body'. So the new  Chairman,  whatever his obligations and whatever his tasks, cannot and ought not necessarily to look forward to an easy life without any difficulties and without any trials and tribulations. Above all, insofar as the Commission would pursue and will pursue the aim of horizontal equality between the States of Australia, it ought to be retained and it ought not to be allowed to go out of existence. 
It is in respect of that proposition that I must make my first comment on today's events. The Inter-State Commission Bill has just been passed in this House. It has been stated that one of the functions that would apply to the Inter-State Commission would be for it to substitute itself for the Grants Commission. That point of view has been stated often by a number of authorities. I put this to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who is at the table: If the one remaining claimant State is induced to withdraw from the area of the Commission, will the Government ensure that the nature of the work of the Commission between the States is continued? There is only one claimant State left. Tasmania was induced to get out of the Commission for the time being - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I draw the honourable member's attention to the provisions of the Grants Commission Bill. I think he is moving a little wide of its provisions. In brief, the purpose of the Bill is to appoint a further full time member to the Commission to relieve the onerous physical burden placed on the existing members of the Commission, to amend the Act to enable the  Chairman,  who immediately before his appointment was a judge of a Federal or State court, to have the same designation, rank, status and precedence as a judge of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court, and also to incorporate machinery changes consequent on the existence of the Remuneration Tribunals Act. I would suggest that since it is a rather narrow Bill the honourable member should confine his remarks to its provisions and not carry on an allembracing debate dealing with the whole question of the Grants Commission. 
-It is in relation to that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I would draw to your attention that the title of the Bill allows for very wide discussion of the principal Act, which is the Grants Commission Act 1973. I have already had circulated an amendment with which I may or may not proceed at the appropriate time. Were it to be proceeded with, that amendment would apply in respect of the principal Act. In fact, the title of the Bill is very wide, and I think that would be immediately obvious on looking at the title itself. 
My question to the Prime Minister concerns the film shown last night by the Australian Broadcasting Commission of a serene and rather happy state of events in Da Nang. This was obviously a Hanoi propaganda film. Is the Prime Minister aware that similarly in 1968 a film was shown by the ABC of a happy and orderly life in Hue at the very time the dreadful Hue massacres were occurring? In view of this propaganda and the past record, will the Government, in the name of decency and a simply respect for humanity, seek to propose vigorous action with the North Vietnamese Governent and General Giap to implement the principles of the international convention for political asylum and to see that those conventions are carried out? 
-One has never doubted the good intentions and the sensitivity of the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  I know that over many years he has made a case for the extension of the benefits to a number of areas. But one has to express a deal of regret that so much expenditure is involved in this Bill for the little return it will make to the recipients of the benefits. The little return is related to the value of the $500m-odd proposed to be expended in the Bill. Quite frankly, the dollars to be expended are not worth the dollars that would have been expended a year or so ago, and therein lies the very great tragedy. There is both joy and sadness in this measure. There is joy because the Government is dealing with at least 5 areas. It is dealing with an increase in the standard rate of pension. It has further liberalised the . means test. It is dealing with those who are newly out of gaol. It is allowing certain moneys to be paid in respect of building societies and other areas and, as significantly as all the others, it has acted to enable unemployment benefits to be paid very quickly to those who qualify for the unemployment benefits. 
It is worth spending a few moments in dealing with the increase in the standard rate pension. The standard rate pension is to be increased to $36 a week. So, it is said immediately that the contract or undertaking of the Government to make that pension payment equivalent to a quarter or 25 per cent of average male weekly earnings has been met. There is a little deception in that. The deception is significant. During the period of time for which the payment of this $36 a week will operate- it will operate up until late September or October- it will not be worth 25 per cent or a quarter of average male weekly earnings; it will be worth something like 2 1.5 per cent of average male weekly earnings, which is a very significant difference. It is this little deception which ought to anger those on the opposite side who have preached to the people over and over again the virtue of a government which, frankly, is paying benefits in devalued dollars. 
In fact, the average shortfall in the value of that pension over the period for which it is to operate, which is from now until the end of September, is nearly $6 a week in today's money values. So there is a very great deficiency. The deception deserves to be exposed for what is is. It is a tragedy that this has happened. Immediately one says that, Government supporters will say to us: 'You people say that if you were in Government you would cut Government spending and that Government spending should be less'. Nobody in bis right mind would say that a domestic deficit of $l,700m or $l,800m is wrong. The tragedy is that a domestic deficit of that size is needed even to get the economy going at the very sluggish rate at which it is going today. There is real concern when one detects in the minds of Government members the idea that that domestic deficit is not to be phased out and that it is something they look at with glee and to be continued indefinitely into the future. So let us rid ourselves of this silly argument concerning the size of the Government's deficit. We will see the phasing out of that according to how private industry in Australia gets going again. 
Of course, that is related very intimately to the $500m involved in this Bill. I only wish that all of those dollars were worth what they appear to be worth at first glance; but apparently they are not. The devaluation of the $6 a week increase in pension to which I have referred during this period is not a big deception; but it is a significant one. It is a very significant deception for those people who are concerned with the payment. It is a very significant deception which makes the pension far less valuable than it otherwise would be. I say this, believing that there would be little chance of contradiction: At the time at which this Government will go to an election the pension payable will not be equivalent to 25 per cent of the then average male weekly earnings. I say that that promise of the Government will not be kept. Let us not engage in little deceits by changing the time period for which the calculations are to be done. 
The real sadness in the Bill relates to the unemployment benefits. They are to be paid immediately and much more quickly than in the past, but the tragedy is that the pressures which have caused this to come about are some of the most dynamic and some of the saddest of this nation. After all, they have become necessary because the most binding social contract which a government can give to Australia has been broken. I read again from the White Paper on Full Employment introduced into this Parliament on 30 May 1 945 while John Curtin was still Prime Minister. It is the most binding and significant social undertaking given to all Australians. On that occasion the Government had this to say, courageously and not frightened of not being able to carry out its promise: 
Full employment is a fundamental aim of the Commonwealth Government. The Government believes that the people of Australia will demand and are entitled to expect full employment. Unemployment is an evil from the effects of which no class in the community and no State in the Commonwealth can hope to escape unless concerted action is taken. 
That undertaking or promise was given while Australia was still at war. At that time Australia was still involved in World War II. John Curtin was still Prime Minister of this nation. He was not to be Prime Minister for very much longer. But, with the confidence of being able to deliver the benefits of that promise, the promise was made. All decent Australians should applaud that contract; but it has been broken. There was no fear then on the part of the Government. 
There were no statements that the Government made the promise so long as unemployment was not imported or that the promise was made on the understanding that inflation was not imported. The undertaking was given without qualifications. Australian workers and Aus.tralian business- aU Australians- said: 'We support that proposition'. The promise has been broken. 
There are one or two areas of sadness and concern in respect of the unemployment benefit which up to this moment have not been explored. It is much easier for a person to register for employment than to receive an unemployment benefit. The receipt of the dole represents real distress. That is when distress begins. Unfortunately, on the latest data available, of those people who have registered for employment there is the greatest proportion that one can measure since World War II who are having to receive the dole. Let me cite the figures for March. I hesitate to introduce too many figures into the debate, but they have to be introduced. As at March 1975, of those who had registered for employment- these are the registered unemployed- 58 per cent or 58 people out of every one hundred had to receive the dole. For 58 people out of every one hundred this was a measure of real distress. In former years, the figure never varied much above 40 people out of every one hundred receiving the dole. The figure may have been 38, 39 or 40 people out of every one hundred. So the measure of distress is not to be gauged merely by the figures that are given monthly in regard to the unemployed in Australia. Currently, the number of unemployed in Australia is about 265 000 people. It is the proportion of those people for whom the dole has been necessary as a way of life that is the real tragedy at which I think all Australians would rebel and about which aU Australians should express concern. 
In fact, this has occurred despite the fact that Australia has embraced a stagnant or very slowly growing work force and immigration rates have been altered to bring down the unemployment rates. This Bill deals with unemployment through the payment of the unemployment benefit I ask the Government to take the firmest action and the most courageous action it can in order to carry out the social contract which is now 30 years old. We do not want the Government to wobble from its obligation. We want it to wobble back to the obligation and to come back to it firmly. If it takes action nobody on this side of the House, certainly not me, Will seek to propose action which would cause the Government to depart from that obligation. 
It will be noted that in these remarks I do not say that the Government deficit has to be cut; I do not say that spending has to be cut overnight; I do not say that spending has to be cut across the board. That is a foolish proposition. It is a proposition which, if carried out now, would cause another 100 000, 150 000 or 200 000 people to be out of work who otherwise would not be out of work. Nobody says that the Government should do this. What we say is quite clear. I will state it again: The domestic deficit at which the Government is aiming in these circumstances, given the.amount of production which is not occurring and given the amount of the total national product, is not wrong now. But it is wrong if it is to be found necessary as a long term measure. We do not want it to become a long term measure. If it does become a long term measure, one will find that in other Bills, as in this Bill, large amounts of money will be spent, but the dollars proposed to be spent will not have the buying power which we would all want them to have. 
I was given 10 minutes in which to make a few remarks. I have been speaking for 1 1 minutes. Let me say this finally: In the task of making purchasing power appropriate to the money expended, the Government ought to rid itself of the delusion of persecution mania. There is no delusion worse than the persecution mania. If the Government considers that it has strayed from the path of economic balance because it has been persecuted from overseas, or because it has been persecuted by private enterprise, or because it has been persecuted by those who, outside its ken, have wanted to destroy the economy, it ought to rid itself of that delusion and of that mania. If the Government is able to do so, it will be able to get the country back to a situation of full employment and of very little inflation, and it W111 be able to introduce social services legislation about which, when we read in the last sentences that $300m, $400m or $500m of funds are to be expended, we can all rest confident that that expenditure represents real dollars and not illusory purchasing power. 
-The Children's Commission Bill 1975 establishes a new commission with a ne,w title. No honourable member would object to what ought to be the aims of the Children's Commission as given to us in terms of its title. But in a few words, the work of this Commission will be judged on the balance that it achieves in relation to the care of all children. After all, 2 points are made in the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The first one is that this Bill is intended to care for over 160 000 children but that ultimately- this is the second point- according to the principles of the Commission, all children in Australia within a certain age group are to be cared for by the year 1980. It is in relation to those 2 matters that one has to judge the balance that will occur in the care of children as determined by the Children's Commission. I am concerned that that balance be preserved and that artificial measures of need, artificial measures of poverty or artificial measures of care are not put upon the children who are, after all, still the children of their parents. 
I detect that under this Bill there is to be attempted an unnecessary bureaucratisation of the care of children in Australia. After all, if the $75m which is proposed to be spent under this measure becomes a substitute for money that would otherwise be spent on family assistance available to parents of children in the home, are we to say that that represents a net improvement in respect of the care of children? When people write rules- especially when a central government writes rules- with respect to children it ought to be remembered that those children are still their parents' children and belong to nobody else. At this stage I will introduce one or two economic facts that ought to be borne in mind. One accepts the expenditure of the $75m set aside under this Bill. But at the same time one must bear in mind that the family assistance available to parents of children to spend in their homes for a family has declined from 1.7 per cent of the gross domestic product to .4 per cent of the gross domestic product. I sense in this Bill a substitution of this $75m, or an attempted substitution, for money that should be spent in other ways. After all, family assistance programs in Australia which have hitherto been carried out have abided by the principle of freedom of choice. They were available to parents to spend money on their children as they sought and as they desired. Therefore, it is in that sense that it is the whole balance of the program that ultimately will determine its validity, its respect and its support in the Australian community. 
The progress of a people- naturally, I refer to the progress of the Australian people- is very intimately connected with the progress of Australian families and the progress of the children in those families. It has been said often enough- it can be said again- that a nation's progress ultimately depends upon 3 things. They are a nation's will, a nation's applied resources and a nation's people. This Commission proposes to deal with this nation's people. I would be less than frank if I were not to say that I am concerned at some of the definitions of services for children which are involved in this BUI, and if I were to deny that I was concerned at the way in which community services for children are to be determined. It is the balance of the program that ultimately will determine its legitimacy. 
The BUI itself has developed from 3 reports. It could be said that it has developed from 3 commission reports, the Interim Committee, and so on. We are aware of the battles that have occurred. In a sense, the BUI has been worried out from those reports. But so far I have not heard the Government say, as a government needs to say, what its philosophy is concerning Australian families and what is its philosophy concerning the role of mothers in the Australian families. The whole matter cannot be considered without considering the role of mothers, no matter to what extent the Federal Government Advisory Committee on the International Women's Year would seek to ignore that proposition. But of course, it has its own problems. But whether mothers work or look after children in their homes, it is the mothers who are satisfied with their roles, whether they work or not, who have the best adjusted children. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Last evening when this Bill was being discussed I spoke on it for five or six minutes. During that time it was my aim to look at the total philosophy of the Government in relation to this Bill and its philosophy towards families in the community which is being exemplified in this Bill. I range as widely as that because, on the Government's words, this was its deal with respect to the children of Australia. Obviously that meant it was the Government's deal with respect to the families of Australia which are raising children. I take as my point of departure a very clear statement of what the Government ought to be looking at, which has been enshrined in a note from the New South Wales Federation of Infant School Clubs, a copy of which several honourable members have received. It had this to say: 
The interim committee to set up the Commission must establish a philosophy in relation to ultimate goals incorporating standards innovations needs and priorities in relation to families and the community. 
Further on in the note the Federation had this to say: 
Examination by the Committee of means of co-ordinating services in accordance with its established philosophy is essential. 
So on that basis, and on the basis of the Government's own words, it was fair and I would think appropriate to look at this Bill at the Minister's second reading speech and at the ingredients of the clauses and to ask: Does this represent the Government's total philosophy? On the Government's own words, it does. But the Government is very seriously in error in a number of cases. Ultimately, when a government intrudes into intimate institutions such as the family and when it intrudes into the responsibilities of families with respect to children, the power of that government will play a very great role in determining ultimately the values of the community. It will determine this basically because it has the power of the purse. 
That is why the error in this Bill is that it does not give an adequate balance between home centred help and community centred help. The balance is all in one direction. When I say that I do not defend for one moment, without some comment and reservations, all the provisions of the Child Care Act of 1972. But that legislation is past and is not going to have a great relationship to the future administration of services for children in this nation. The power of the purse constitutes real power and with an interventionist government it is appropriate for us to look where the power of the purse is being directed. 
I am concerned at the transfer from home to community of services organised through this Bill and through other measures of assistance to families that have existed in the past. I think it appropriate to consider one or two figures. According to this Bill, $75m is to be spent at the moment on these services. Is that $75m an addition of resources available to children in the community and to the families caring for children in the community? It is not. It is only part of a subtraction from the resources available to families in the community. For example, the one measure of assistance that has not risen with inflation but has been kept absolutely constant are the families assistance programs, all of which are nominated in the national accounts for mothers' maternity allowances, bonuses, and so on. In fact, over a great number of years, from 1950 to the present day, the amount expended on those programs has declined from 1.7 per cent of gross domestic product to about 0.4 per cent of gross domestic product. 
No matter what fashionable ideas people may have, women are still the only ones able to have children. I think it is worthwhile thinking for a moment about the fact that assistance given to mothers has declined quite massively. Some years ago child endowment- which was free spending money- for 2 children was worth an addition of 7 per cent to average weekly earnings which were coming into a home. For 2 children now it is worth an addition of one per cent to average weekly earnings. For 4 children in the early 1950s it was worth an additional 15 per cent of average weekly earnings and today it is worth an additional 5 per cent or 6 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
Rather than traversing the figures in great detail, probably they can be best summarised in an example. Some years ago family assistance for 2 children would have bought 18 loaves of bread in a week. Today such assistance would buy31/2 loaves of bread. I believe the Prices Justification Tribunal has been on the job since these figures were calculated, so perhaps the price of bread has decreased since then. But the $75m proposed to be spent according to this Bill does far less than make up the leeway. It does far less than substitute for what is being denied elsewhere. One must take into consideration the amount involved in lost taxation deductions for the education of children which, for many families, represents an extra cost of $2 per week. In all of this, through the power of the purse, the power of an interventionist government, there is a decreasing of the ability of families to make their own decisions concerning their own children. 
In fact, ultimately what is involved here is a bureaucratisation of children and a decreasing of the ability of parents to make their own decisions. That has to be stated because, on the basis of the Government program and the Minister 's second reading speech, ultimately this Commission will be designed to take care of all children. It will be designed to be quite pervasive and it has the aim of achieving this by 1980. So the philosophy of the Bill has appropriately to be examined with the lack of balance which is evident in all that it proposes at the present time. 
Furthermore, I am concerned that this transfer of significant authority becomes evident in the definitions of 'services for children' contained in the Bill. In the definitions of the services for children, which are the linchpin of this legislation, 7 types of services for children are listed and in many of them the final words are that they are to be available for children who are not being cared for in their own homes, for children whose parents are engaged in employment, for children who whether are sick or physically disabled, or for children where assistance is needed. It is that philosophy that deserves to be examined. After all, I believe that all children in Australia need assistance and any public authority caring for them must be interested in them. All parents and mothers need assistance, whether they are working or not, whether they are poor or not, whether there is 1 wage earner or 2 wage earners. But I deny the proposition which seems to be ignored in the Bill that poor families somehow or other do not reside in those communities where there are -2 parents, only one of which is working. Some of the poorest families in Australia are families where there are 2 parents and only one of them is working. In the philosophy that has crept into this whole area of activity these people are being ignored, as was the Henderson Poverty Inquiry specifically ignored in this respect. It is not enough for a government to say that, with the birth of every child a family can be driven into pauperism and then to say that that family, having been driven into pauperism by the government's taxation policy, will have services made available to it outside the home under conditions that the government determines. Frankly, that is a philosophy with respect to families which I do not support. I will be moving a number of appropriate amendments to this Bill and we will determine the fate of those amendments at a later stage. 
The final point to be made concerns Australia's total position in the world. Australia is a very small country in world terms which still has a very small number of people. To become a great nation it will require people. The best exposition of that philosophy was enunciated in 1945 and 1946 in a number of magnificent speeches by the late Ben Chifley, a former Prime Minister of" this country. Today we are living in the most expanding and dynamic part of the globe. At this moment and for the last couple of years this nation has been less than a zero growth nation. If we are concerned about where we will be towards the end of this century we should take into account those 2 points. It is in those circumstances that I say that the philosophy of this Bill of the transfer of the resources involved in the Government's total approach to this area needs to be examined very closely. 
There are 2 factors which no nation can ever escape. In the short term it cannot escape its own productivity performance; in the long term it cannot escape its own demography. This Bill is certainly concerned with the latter. I am concerned that the attitude of the Government ought to change. I believe that it must change not only in respect of national priorities but also in respect of the authority of institutions, the authority of parents and the ultimate destiny of the nation. 
The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in introducing this Bill manifested a great deal of goodwill. I would not for one moment suggest that his own philosophy would be contrary to a great deal of what I have expressed. I know that from his own background that would not be so. I would be surprised if the Minister did not give the proposed amendments, gentle and reasonable as they are, the response that I would expect him to give to them, namely, assent. I believe that anything short of that situation would not do justice to preserving what this Commission should be doing, that is looking after the total balance which is appropriate to the Australian community. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), paragraph (e), omit 'when', substitute whether or not'. 
If my amendment is accepted, under ' services for children ' paragraph (e) would state: assistance to parents in connection with the care of their sick children in their own homes at a time or times of the day whether or not the parents are engaged in employment; 
At present the paragraph states that that assistance will be available when the parents are engaged in employment. I am upholding the principle I have stated previously and consistentlythat freedom of choice ought not to make an exclusion in this respect. There are occasions when such assistance would be appropriate to children and, consequently, to their parents when they are being cared for by a mother who is at home, who is not at work and who is not outside the home. It is an amendment the philosophy of which could have been applied to a number of the other definitions of 'services for children'. For example, in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) reference is made to the children not being cared for in their own home or the parents being engaged in employment. I put that amendment to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for his consideration. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
That the question be put. 
-I have 2 amendments to clause 5.I hope that the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls)  will be as courteous in respect to them as he has been so far. It is quite obvious that the Government has a certain philosophy and is not willing to contemplate or listen to anything in opposition to it. It is also quite clear that there is no answer in response to the amendments that have been proposed. The Government has proposed no answer except one line. This is the last opportunity the Government has to make the functions of the Commission serve the purpose which its members outside this chamber say it ought to serve. I propose the first amendment to clause 5 to alter the form of words. 
I shall address myself for only a few moments to one of the points made by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party and honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  namely, the 5-minute rule concerning the proposals for amendments. This rule will make proper discussion utterly impossible. I remind the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party that, as far as I can see, there are only 150 proposed amendments. I thought he said that there were 153. 
-I see. If one looks at the proposed amendments one will see that it would be impossible to read the substance of some of them within the 5 minutes proposed. For example, one of the multitude of amendments proposed by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  new clause 94A., would take 5 minutes merely to read without proposing any arguments in respect of it. That applies to many of the amendments that have been proposed. This problem will not apply to clause 48, as the Leader of the House has proposed that 5 hours of debate be allowed on that clause; but significant amendments, of which there are a great number, will be impossible to argue within the period allowed. 

 Mr Speaker, I raise something which will concern your own administration of the House during the debate on the Family Law Bill. Special arrangements will have to be made because of the very fact that 150 amendments have been proposed. But, as many amendments have been proposed to the same clause- I see some clauses in relation to which 3 or 4 amendments are proposed- I ask for your guidance  Mr Speaker,  as to whether standing order 176 will apply? It is the one which deals with the framing of amendments in the way in which they are framed in this House, which is a rather negative way compared with the way in which amendments are framed in the other place. Standing order 1 76 states: 
When the proposed amendment is to omit certain words in order to insert or add other words, the  Speaker  shall put a question 'That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question' . . . 
Once that is resolved in the affirmative, further amendments - 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I was hoping to bring to the attention of the House the suggestion that during the debate or even before the debate some arrangements be made to determine whether standing order 178 will apply. It would appear to be far more sensible in the circumstances if it were to apply. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I am rather assured by those remarks. There is one further matter that deserves to be considered and it is in relation to the second part of the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  He pi oposed that clauses 1 to 47 be postponed until clause 48 is dealt with. One of the proposed amendments to the Bill is clause 47a. Whether it is accepted or rejected, clause 47a will affect very pertinently the attitude to clause 48. I do not think that this is sufficient reason to oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the House, but unless clause 47A is considered in relation to clause 48 a decision could be made which would not be made in view of all the circumstances which would intimately affect the carriage of clause 48 in its present form or in an amended form. I hope that when the time comes that matter also will be considered. 
I reaffirm my first proposition, which stands and which ought to stand. On reading through the amendments one realises that it would be utterly impossible to consider many of them within a time span of 5 minutes. Many of the amendments contain 200 or 250 words. Some of them contain even 300 words. To run through 250 or more words of an amendment, to ascribe a meaning to them and then to argue on them within a space of 5 minutes would do a very grave injustice to the Bill. Above all, it would prevent any satisfactory exploration of minds and exercise of judgments by honourable members on this measure. So I ask the Leader of the House to consider very carefully that part of the proposition put forward by the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party which is directed to the 5-minute rule. 
-The amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  is very similar to two other amendments which have been proposed, one by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and one by myself. I will be supporting the amendment of the honourable, member for Wentworth for obvious and very cogent reasons. I am also attracted to his additional proposed amendment which indicates that if a decree is not granted by the court upon the ground of consent, separation or the conduct of the marriage it shall not be granted otherwise. I suggest that some cruel injustices will creep in under the present proposal if it is passed. I will merely indicate them. 
It has been said that the only time the State should intervene in matters as between persons is when the behaviour of one damages others. In a marriage situation we are concerned as between a fair go and a sense of justice between the 2 partners to a marriage. Unless grounds exist which enable a marriage to be terminated as quickly as possible the greatest cruelty and the greatest injustice could be wreaked upon what would otherwise be the innocent party. Some of these have been mentioned by the honourable member for Wentworth, by the honourable member for Moreton and by other speakers in the debate this afternoon. Those circumstances will exist whether the marriage has existed for a short time or whether it has existed for a long time. No honourable member can gainsay and put aside that proposition in all cases in which grounds exist for a quick divorce, whether those grounds be based on behaviour, fault, incest, cruelty or failure to consummate. If we do not allow a ground which will allow for instant divorce or an immediate filing of proceedings, we are saying to the innocent party on every occasion: 'You can serve out time. You serve out your 12 months or your 24 months'. If one has a finely developed sense of justice and a developed sense of fair play as between 2 partners, can one ignore that situation? Ought we to ignore that situation? I believe that we ought not to ignore it. We ought to be willing and game to make a decision. 
It is nonsense in the circumstances that I have nominated to say that the parties to a divorce can engage in a number of injunctive procedures. A party cannot engage in an injunctive procedure without providing evidence as to fault or as to wrong doing. The process involves that, and those who are skilled in the law tell me- I understand it is correct- that an injunctive procedure can be one of the most expensive procedures that exists within the law. What is being said then in relation to all of these cases where there is an innocent party, whether the marriage has been a short one or a long one and whether there are many children or no children, is this: 'We will commit you to injunctive procedures which are complicated, which are tenuous and which can be very expensive'. Is that a fair summary? Is that a fair judgment of what can be regarded as being in a fair go for the partners in a marriage? I believe it is not. When the proposition is put around this country that a quick divorce will no longer be available under the proposals of this Bill and that those who are otherwise the innocent parties will be condemned to serve out time, it is appropriate for this Parliament to say: 'We will intervene in that situation and preserve the rights of what may be an innocent party'. One cannot just ignore the proposition. 
Earlier in the debate I gave the example of a woman who could be in a position where her husband desires to separate from her and, under the cohabitation procedures contained in the Bill, with which I agree, where she could be expecting a child in four or five months' time but the computer says that the marriage is over. Does that constitute a sense of fair play? Is that a fair sense of justice? I believe that the crucial elements in the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Wentworth desire to be supported. They desire to be supported because they are balanced and because they take account of most situations which will arise under reasonable circumstances where the dissolution of the marriage is an important procedure that ought not to be entered into lightly or lightheartedly. 
1 listened to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  with some interest. I looked once again at the precise words of clause 6 of the Bill because this proposed new section seeks to replace not one but two sections of the Matrimonial Causes Act, namely, section 6A and the section dealing with void marriages. Clause 6 states: 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act, a union in the nature of a marriage which is, or has at any time been, polygamous, being a union entered into in a place outside Australia, shall be deemed to be a marriage. 
It is no use looking at the case of Khan v. Khan because the present Act can deal with marriages which are second, third and fourth marriages. A potentially polygamous marriage can be judged as a void marriage and attract the provisions of the Act. The essential change which is proposed by the clause which the Minister proposes to insert is to convert what would be void marriages to valid marriages. If that is the shortest distance which he proposes to traverse in relation to this matter, it is a very great distance indeed. What would be void marriages will become, for the purposes of this Bill, valid marriages, and many things may flow from that. I do think it is appropriate merely to say that that does not mean much. 
I would not go so far as to say that the clause will bring about a situation in which we have a nation made up of eastern potentates with harems or anything of that nature. But it is misleading and incorrect to assert that the present Act does not deal with the situation that has been enunciated. It does. It does so through section 6A and, I think, section 8 1 of the Act. Once this new principle or fact is accepted in the Family Law Bill we will have imported a very significant new practice and new recognition into this country. This matter ought to be looked at. I am not persuaded that it is sufficient to say that this matter will be taken care of by the Marriage Act or by some other Act. I want to know why there is the proposition, or why there is the ultimate effect, to convert what would otherwise be void marriages, with all that flows from void marriages, into valid marriages. That is not a position to be gainsaid or one to be ignored. 
The present Act regards polygamous marriages as void. The Bill before us says that they are valid. It is appropriate to ask why the present section  6 A  is to be removed. The Bill seeks to turn the marriage of a person outside Australia which is potentially polygamous and which at present is void into a valid marriage. The distance between these two objectives is not short; it is very great. I support the amendment of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  because it deals with the precise situation and seeks to rectify it. The Attorney-General did not seek even to meet that situation in his explanation. Until those 2 differences of interpretation are dealt with I do not believe that the position is being met or that even an attempt is being made to meet it. 
I move circulated amendment No. (77A). The first sentence of clause 43 would now read: 
The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act or any other Act, and any other court exercising jurisdiction under this Act shall, to the extent to which it is not contrary to this Act, have regard to - 
My amendment is moved for a very good reason. Clause 43 as it now stands in the Bill is a clause of deception. As was so magnificently pointed out during the second reading debate by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  the framers of the Bill must have gone to the local vicar in respect of this clause and said: 'Write something so that we can run it around the country to assuage the worry of all those people who think the Bill might do other things'. Paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d)- especially paragraph (a)- have nothing to do with the philosophy of the Bill, especially as clause 48 has already been agreed to. Paragraph (a) reads: 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
That is completely contrary to the law and to clause 48 as proposed by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and as now accepted by the Committee. 
I move my amendment merely to strip away the deliberate deception which is involved in this clause, which says that these are the principles to be followed by the court but it is not the law, it is not the Act, to be administered under the jurisdiction of the court. Unless there is a world of difference understood between the 2 situations people will be deceived, and people have been deceived up to this time. That is why I seek to make the clause explicit. Unfortunately it has been made necessary as a result of clause 43 which has been run around Australia to indicate a philosophy with which this Bill has very little to do. 
-The amendment circulated in my name is to clause 50 and I suggest to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  that there may have been a drafting error or an oversight. The amendment deals with clause 50 and, in lines 38 and 39, seeks to omit phraseology which does not exist in either of the two preceding clauses to which clause 50 would be related. It proposes to substitute, with respect to the filing of the application, that the 12 months' period shall apply 'up to the date of filing of the application' for the words presently proposed in clause 50: 'up to the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application'. I suggest to the Attorney-General there may be a drafting error, a printing error or an oversight which caused this. After all, clause 50, which is the cohabitation clause, is related to clause 48. Sub-section (2) of clause 48 reads as follows: 
Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage. 
I suggest that in clause 50, which is obviously a repeat of that principle, there is an oversight and the amendment ought to be considered, in fact, to make sense of the cohabitation provisions which are contained in proposed clause 50. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 51. 
Marriages that are within a prohibited relationship are marriages- 
between a person and an ancestor or descendant of the person; or 
between a brother and a sister (whether of the whole blood or the half-blood). 
Any relationship specified in sub-section (3) includes a relationship traced through, or to, a person who is or was an adopted child, and, for that purpose, the relationship between an adopted child and his adoptive parent, or each of his adoptive parents, shall be deemed to be or to have been the natural relationship of child and parent. 
Nothing in sub-section (4) makes it lawful for a person to marry a person whom the first-mentioned person could not lawfully have married if that sub-section had not been enacted. 
Circulated amendment. 

 (Mr Wentworth)-Omit sub-clauses (3), (4) and (5 ), substitute the following sub-clause: 
Marriages that are within a prohibited relationship are marriages- 
between a man and a woman who is, or has been, his- 
Ancestress 
Descendant 
Sister 
Father's sister 
Mother's sister 
Brother's daughter 
Sister's daughter 
Wife's mother 
Wife 's grandmother 
Wife's daughter 
Wife 's son 's daughter 
Wife's daughter's daughter 
Father's wife 
Grandfather's wife 
Son's wife 
Son's son's wife 
Daughter's son's wife  between a woman and a man who is, or has been, her- 
Ancestor 
Descendant 
Brother 
Father's brother 
Mother's brother 
Brother's son 
Sister's son 
Husband's father 
Husband's grandfather 
Husband's son 
Husband 's son 's son 
Husband 's daughter 's son 
Mother's husband 
Grandmother's husband 
Daughter's husband 
Son's daughter's husband 
Daughter's daughter's husband; 
for the purposes of this section, it is immaterial whether the relationship is of whole blood or halfblood, or whether it is traced through or to, a person of illegitimate birth; and 
(i) any relationship specified in paragraph (a) of this sub-section includes a relationship traced through, or to, a person who is or was an adopted child, and, for that purpose, the relationship between an adopted child and his adoptive parent, or each of his adoptive parents, shall be deemed to be or to have been the natural relationship of child and parent; and 
for the purposes of this section a person who has at any time been adopted by another person shall be deemed to remain the adopted child of that other person notwithstanding that any order by which the adoption was affected has been annulled, cancelled or discharged or that the adoption has for any other reason ceased to be effective; and a person who has been adopted on more than one occasion shall be deemed to be  the adopted child of each person by whom he has been adopted.'. 
-The proposed amendment nominates the prohibited relationship in 2 ways. In a vertical sense it nominates the prohibited relationship as, first, between a person and an ancestor or descendant of the person, and, second, in a lateral relationship, which also has the capacity to be vertical, between a brother and a sister whether of the whole blood or the half blood. One has to look at the prohibited relationship if it is assumed that prohibited relationships are to remain prohibited and if it is assumed that there is not to be a fundamental alteration to the relationship. I wonder why the list of prohibited relationships which are in the present Act are not included in the Family Law Bill. After all, in the proposed Bill the word descendant' is not defined and the word 'ancestor' is not defined. What is a 'descendant"? It is left up in the air and we are uncertain as to the extent to which a descendant is in a vertical relationship that is prohibited and to what extent relationships can extend laterally and remain prohibited. 
There has to be an air of uncertainty which revolves around the very short and very shortened definitions of what constitute prohibited relationships in the proposed Bill. I am very uncertain; I have to be uncertain. After all, I ask the Attorney-General: 'Would a prohibited relationship be a marriage between a man and a woman who is his wife's daughter's daughter?' I ask that precisely. I ask: 'Would it be a prohibited relationship between a woman and a man who is her husband's son's son, or between a woman and a husband's daughter's son?' These are some of the questions which have to remain uncertain in our minds when one looks at this very shortened category of descendants and what constitutes a prohibited relationship in the proposed Bill. In these circumstances, nobody could depart from this chamber with any certainty. He could surely not derive certainty from what is in the proposed Bill in terms of clauses 51 (3) sub-clauses (a) and (b). It is not possible to do so. The sections which follow do not nominate prohibited relationships as we have come to expect them to be. I would think that the Attorney-General ought to pay some appropriate attention to this matter, especially as I hope that, in refusing to pay attention to a previous clause, he has not made a mess of proposed clause 50 which, on the advice of his officers, he was going to accept. In those circumstances, he ought to pay a modicum of attention to the case which has been made by the honourable member for Mackellar. It cannot be laughed away. It is serious. It cannot be ignored. If the Family Law Bill does not seek to alter completely what are prohibited relationships, there ought to be an answer to the question. I would certainly seek the agreement of the Committee to grant leave to the Attorney-General to answer some of the propositions that I have put to him. 
I shall not detain the Committee for very long. This is a very important clause because it is a lead-in clause to the maintenance provisions of the Bill and of the proposed Act. It needs to be examined very closely. I suggest to the Committee that in clause 72 there is an alteration in both the onus and the emphasis required with respect to maintenance under this Bill. That becomes immediately obvious when one reads the first part of the clause. It states: 
A party to a marriage is liable to maintain the other party, to the extent that the first-mentioned party is reasonably able to do so, if, and only if, that other party is unable to support herself or himself adequately, - 
I suggest that, as the lead-in clause to the maintenance section which is designed to give the sense of direction and the philosophy of maintenance in this Bill, this clause needs to be looked at very closely. 
I ask this question: Why have the words 'if, and only if been included in this clause? That must concern me and it must concern very many fair-minded people. There is an alteration with respect to the emphasis under this clause. Under this Bill, but not under the existing Act, the obligation of the maintenance provisions will be determined according to the wife's abilityperhaps duty- to support herself. No matter how those provisions are read, one cannot escape that proposition. There is now a stronger obligation on a wife to support herself than has existed hitherto. That cannot be ignored. I believe that it is not just an unfelicitous choice of words. It is a choice of words that is rather intended. This becomes clearer, because under the existing Act if a wife is deserted and seeks maintenance it falls upon the husband- I use the terms 'wife' and husband' in that sense- to say to the court: 'I do not have to pay because she left me. She has won an Opera House lottery. I am broke and she is able to support herself. But, as proposed under the Bill, the onus is placed upon the wife to demonstrate to the court that she cannot work, that she cannot earn enough money or that she cannot support herself adequately. It is impossible to escape that change in onus and that change in emphasis as proposed in clause 72. 1 suggest that the Committee look very closely at the matter and peruse the philosophical direction and lead given by this clause and the change with respect to the dependent partner concerning the onus in relation to support and the emphasis on the obligation placed upon the dependent partner, who is usually the wife. So, I propose an amendment which, in fact, may be displaced by an amendment to be proposed by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner). 
My amendment proposes the deletion of the last words in clause 72. It would delete the words having regard to any relevant matter referred to in sub-section 75 (2)'. I propose to delete those words because section 75 (2) lists 10, 1 1 or 12 circumstances which would attract maintenance. It is not appropriate to say that all the circumstances which would attract maintenance would be included in those 10, 11 or 12 propositions. There would be others that have not occurred to the framers of the legislation and others that will occur as circumstances alter. I am led to this concern because in the present Matrimonial Causes Act this phraseology is contained in section 84(1):   the court may . . . make such order as it thinks proper, having regard to the means, earning capacity and conduct of the parties to the marriage and all other relevant circumstances. 
A wide range of judgment is allowed under the present Act. That judgment is constricted. It is constricted especially with respect to the onus on the dependant party and an emphasis of proof that is put upon the dependant party which certainly does not exist and is not intended to exist under the present Act. I believe it would be foolish to try to demonstrate otherwise. 
-I follow the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  who I thought set out quite admirably the case for having another look at the whole direction and purpose of clause 75. I remind the Committee that in considering clause 75 one has to bear in mind that the preamble to that clause comes in clause 72. Clause 72 remains the first clause in the maintenance section of this Bill which will determine the philosophy and attitude of the court in judging what is appropriate under clause 75.I mention in passing that under clause 72 the onus of proof and the emphasis of obligation have been altered, and they have been altered very significantly. Against that background, let us consider one or two of the propositions that have been put forward by the honourable member for Stirling. 
Before I discuss those propositions in detail, I should say in answer to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that, although he is correct in saying that the last paragraph of clause 75 (2) states that the court will consider any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion of the court, the justice of the case requires, it is an open question whether that general advice to a court will override the precise provisions which are contained, for example, in clause 75 (2) (h), and that is a strange provision. Under clause 75 (2) (h) as it now stands, the matters to be taken into account are:  the extent to which the payment of maintenance to the party whose maintenance is under consideration would increase the earning capacity of that party by enabling that party to undertake a course of education or training or to establish himself or herself in a business or otherwise to obtain an adequate income; 
The operative words are 'would increase'. At present, by cross-examination and by observation of the demeanour of the parties concerned, the court makes a judgment; but, under this provision, if maintenance is sought at the rate of $50 a week, for example, some kind of IQ test will be carried out and professional vocational guidance people will say that in this case, because this person appears to be rather more intelligent than another, her income would be increased far more by the payment of that maintenance than would another person's. That is the uncertainty that the words 'would increase' induce into the proceedings of the court. I ask: Why has there been this choice of words? The court could be beset with all kinds of professional advisers and sociologists who will make a judgment about what factors would increase means. If they do not do that, they will be acting contrary to the sense of what is contained in clause 75 (2)(h). 
There are other provisions in clause 75 which also leave a great deal to be desired; for instance, the eligibility of either party to a pension, allowance or benefit. There can be a distinction between eligibility and receipt. A wife who will have the obligation to maintain children could have a benefit available to her which would consist of the possibility of those children being cared for in some state institution covered in this Bill to which she has an objection. If she refuses to allow the children to be kept in some kind of circumstance which is available to her but of which for philosophical, social and personal reasons she does not want to avail herself, then to that extent the party seeking maintenance under that clause will be disadvantaged. This illustrates the great difficulty in trying to categorise in nine or ten paragraphs precise details about circumstances that will determine maintenance. I believe that that is an error. I think it is a very imperfect substitute for the present procedure, which allows a judgment to be made by the court taking into account all of the circumstances and conditions which are relevant to the case. The precise provisions of the precise categories involved in clause 75 at the moment allow some very grave distortions which the court could not ignore in its own determinations. It is for that reason that I support the amendments moved by the honourable member for Stirling, a number of which are similar to amendments I have moved. 
Amendments negatived. 
-I wish to speak in relation to the proposal made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I had an amendment to propose which was very similar to the one proposed by him and, in suggesting it, I realise that there appears to be some contradiction between clauses 106 and 107. The proposal I was going to put forward was that after the word 'person, in the first Une of subclause ( 1 ), insert the following words: 
Unless he shall be guilty of wilfulness disobedience of the court's order. 
That amendment would have the same effect as the one proposed by the honourable member for Moreton. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  may have an explanation of the situation. He is nodding his head, so I believe that he has an explanation. But the penalty and the knowledge of the penalty ought not to be removed altogether from those who have an obligation in some circumstances. It is not a sufficient argument to say that only one out of every 100 people who owe money go to gaol. The fact that a penalty exists would have an influence on decisions which are made, payments which are made and the willingness with which they are made. I await the Attorney-General's response to both these proposals because they are very similar. 
-This clause relates to the injunction proceedings. It was in regard to those proceedings that so much argument was made on clause 48 by those who said that this saved the situation for all those who would otherwise want to get rid of their marriage rather quickly for a number of reasons. It was heard over and over again that this was the saviour. When one looks at the proposals in clause 114(1) beside the other proposals which can attract injunctive proceedings, one sees that proceedings can be taken for the protection of the marital relationship. That is repeating paragraph (e) of the interpretation of 'matrimonial causes'. What kind of events or activities could possibly be excluded from the protection of the marital relationship? There could be proceedings initiated which would be frivolous or vexatious but they might not be frivolous or vexatious in the minds of those initiating the proceedings. It was for that reason that in paragraph (e) of the interpretation of 'matrimonial causes' it had been proposed to make it rather more precise and instead to refer to the personal protection of a party to the marriage or of a child of the marriage or the property with respect to the marriage. 
But these words are far wider than that and they allow these injunctive proceedings to be used in a pimping, prying and spying manner. Absolutely nothing is excluded from them. For example, take the case of a wife- she may be a little neurotic- who is concerned that her husband is working too late with his secretary. It might be legitimate work. He could be paying too much money to his secretary. The wife could bring proceedings under this clause. They may be vexatious or frivolous but who would say that they were vexatious or frivolous if evidence were produced by a psychiatrist, a medical man or a psychologist to the effect there were medical disorders arising from this situation, and this person insisted that the marital relationship required injunctive proceedings to be taken under clause 114? That kind of situation is not excluded from clause 114 as it is proposed. I believe that, far from protecting the marital relationship, people will be invited into the court for the most frivolous of reasons. It is a well known axiom that once they are invited into the court unnecessarily there is a danger which follows immediately from that situation. This clause invites people in under any circumstances. 
There ought to be a more precise definition of what would be involved. 'Matrimonial causes' interprets the situations that are involved in matrimonial causes. Paragraph (e), to which this clause applies is a completely new proposition. It certainly has not been explained adequately and it ought to be explained adequately, but above aU there ought to be some situations which exclude the proceedings to be taken under this clause and they ought to be interpreted far more precisely than they are at present, otherwise this could represent an unnecessary danger to a marriage and certainly not a protection to the parties, the property or the children concerned. It could very well be to the disadvantage of the whole marital relationship. There needs to be a more precise spelling out than is contained in the clause, but that precise spelling out involves a reexamination of what is involved in paragraph (e) of the interpretation of ' matrimonial causes '. 
-The amendment which I propose is No. 92 on the sheet which is available to honourable members. It applies to clause 50. The proposal is to omit the words 'up to the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application' and to substitute in their stead the words 'up to the date of the filing of the application'. The purpose of the amendment is to make sense out of the proposal for the 12-month period which qualifies a marriage for a divorce or dissolution and to put the matter on all fours with clause 48. I have explained this previously. It makes common sense out of what would be an unfortunate discrepancy. I formally move the amendment which reads: 
In sub-clause (1) omit 'up to the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application', substitute 'up to the date of the filing of the application '. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to state in the great deal of time which is left to me in this second reading debate that I find it very difficult to make a decision as to which of the 2 descriptions that have been given to this Bill is correct. Those descriptions were given by 2 eminent members of the House who spoke earlier in the debate. One described the Bill as the worst Bill in 25 years to come into this place. The other, who was perhaps a little less modest, described it as the worst Bill for 75 years. I do not intend to attempt to make a decision as between those descriptions, but each of them, in its own way, is accurate and each of them, in its own way, is perfectly correct. In fact, there is such an enormous aggregation of power to the Commonwealth Government and the Purchasing Commission under this Bill that it could change the whole face of Australia and, in an economy which is on its knees, no longer would we say that the socialist program would be to soak the rich - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clause 1 (Short title). 
-The essential part of clause 2 is the definitions which are appropriate to the procurement provisions. 
-In the 10 minutes available to me my concern is to be directed towards the Premiers Conference that is proposed shall be held in Canberra in the middle of June- in three or four weeks time. My concern is directed to it because it is to be held in quite unusual and rather unique circumstances. The importance of that conference is indicated firstly by the fact that it is to be one of the 5-yearly conferences at which the totality of the arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States in terms of the financial assistance to be granted to those States is to be renegotiated. Those conferences have occurred regularly at almost 5-yearly intervals since 1959- in 1959, 1965 and 1970-and they occurred before 1959 in the first years after World War II. 
The uniqueness of the conference is indicated by the fact that it is to be held at a time of record unemployment, record inflation and static productivity- what otherwise has been called euphemistically a state of negflation. But it is also to be held in some other circumstances that have not occurred at any Premiers Conference since World War II. It is to be held at a time during which Australia has led a flight back to very high tariff and quota protectionism. It is the effect of that tariff and quota protectionism that ought to be put on the table as a principal matter of discussion at the conference. The opportunity should be sought this year- it would not be the first time that such an opportunity has been sought- to discuss the effects as between the States of tariff and quota protectionism. Significantly enough, the first report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in 1933 indicates that it sought to discuss this matter. I wish to quote from 2 passages of that report. On page 68 of the report the Commission had this to say: 
It is clear that some States are adversely affected by the tariff, but it is difficult to measure either the gross or net effect on a State. We have not been able, even roughly, to measure this effect and we have not been helped by any of the evidence submitted by claimant States. 
The second reference to which I wish to refer in the first report of the Grants Commission is appropriate. It states: 
We conclude then that the net adverse effect of Federal trade policy on the finances of the States is considerable for South Australia, still greater for Western Australia, but doubtful for Tasmania; but that we cannot arrive at even a rough direct measure of it. 
There has been an alteration in the situation concerning the States that have been affected the most South Australia is now a net beneficiary. Queensland is in net deficit in this respect. But the opportunity is available now to measure the effects as between and among the States of tariff and protection policies. It is crucially important to do so because they affect the totality of the allocation of resources between and among the Australian States. In a few words: If Australia is to do most what it can do best, it cannot put the cards concerning the net subsidy effects of tariff and quota protectionism underneath the table. They ought to be put on the table and, in particular, on the table at that conference. 
Let me illustrate the point in this way: At the last Premiers Conference there was a haggle over the fact that $2,500m, or a little more, was to be divided among the States in terms of financial assistance grants. They were the cards that were on the table. What was not even discussed at that very time was the equivalent of well over $2,500m in tariff and quota protectionism among the States. My proposal, therefore, is that the Commonwealth Government and/or State governments should, during this time of a retreat to protectionism, make the matter of that protectionism the principal matter of discussion at the Premiers Conference. To ignore it is to ignore one of the most significant effects on business and living conditions in the various regions and the various States of Australia. I point out that this is a very sensitive issue that could be of crucial significance to those in business and those in employment. 
It is significant to note that at this time the least protected States are those that have declined the most in terms of employment and other conditions during the past year. Ought that to be ignored? Can it be ignored, for example, that a maintenance fitter who works at an export meatworks in, say, Western Australia or in my own State of Queensland is subject to the rigours of world competition while his comrade on the same award, which is a very low award, who is working at a protected motor car factory in one of the capital cities of the other States of Australia is in a protected position? It is an equalising of those conditions that deserves to be explored at the conference. A similar position applies with respect to those engaged in business enterprise. Those engaged in a business enterprise whose demand depends upon industries that are unprotected are placed in a far more sensitive position than those whose business enterprise depends upon a demand for thenproduct from industries that are protected. This is a matter that affects us far more than just as a narrow State parochialism. It affects the totality of resources allocation in Australia. That nettle ought to be grasped at this conference. The opportunity that was sought by the Commonwealth Grants Commission in its first report ought to be taken advantage of on this occasion. 
Let me illustrate the significance of the matters that have occurred in this area since October of last year. Since October of last year, from which date a spate of special assistance and Temporary Assistance Authority assistance has been given to industry, with which I do not disagree, there has been the equivalent of at least an extra $300m allocated by that means to industries in the various States. That assistance has affected well over 200 000 employees directly. But 3 States of Australia that have 28 per cent of the population of Australia have been the recipients of less than 10 per cent of that assistance to either persons or industries situated within the States. That is the type of matter that ought to be discussed at the Premiers Conference this year because, unlike the first analysis of it over 40 years ago there is now information available to enable it to be discussed. There are now healthy external balances that enable between industries the movements that were not possible in, for example, the days of the late respected Prime Minister Scullin. Every government at a time of very high unemployment has retreated to protectionism. There was the famous statement by Prime Minister Scullin on 3 April 1 930 when he said: 
The Government is now taking extraordinary action as an emergency measure. 
That action was not incorrect in the circumstances. There was the retreat to protectionism during the 1961-1962 downturn in the Australian economy. But what has happened in the 1974-75 and 1975-76 period is that for the first time one has the information and the data on which to evaluate the allocation of resources in Australia and among Australians, among businesses and among the States as a result of protection policies. I believe that it deserves not to be ignored. It is appropriate to be raised at this conference. I request that the Government raise it at this conference. I request the Government not to ignore it; otherwise one can say, in a very unfortunate sense, that if the Government is not willing to allow it to be aired at that level there have to remain the suspicion that it has become part of the pork barrel type of politics. A pork barrel type of politics is not appropriate to the Australian economy, in which the industries with the least protection provide the greatest increase in employment. Circumstances are quite different from what they have been in the past. The opportunity is there. Work which has been done by the Industries Assistance Commission alone enables the technical expertise to be applied to the problem, which in turn will enable the best allocation of resources and enable all the cards to be put on the table- and to be put on the table with precision so that accurate judgments can be made as to what is happening between and among the various States. 
I am delighted to be able to say a few words about the Queensland redistribution. No doubt the House will note that from time to time in passing I shall throw in the name of a Queensland electorate and that will be because the distribution of the 
Queensland electorates has caused the Opposition some concern. There would not be an honourable member in this House who would deny that, in looking at a redistribution, he considers the matter with the purest of motives and with the purest of minds. An electoral redistribution is not one of those things that conjure up all the latent sensibilities or sensitivities in members of Parliament. It might happen to affect their political lives; it might happen to affect them very intimately. It might throw them out of politics altogether or it might entrench them in politics altogether; but that is the last consideration. I know that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  would acknowledge immediately all of those propositions. 
Just to indicate what would happen were one to imagine motives descending to such low levels as have been hinted at this afternoon, let us consider some of the debates on the early redistributions. I go to the first redistribution in 1906.  Sir John  Forrest- well known to some people from Swan, which electorate he once representedhad this to say: 
I do not intend to oppose this motion but I should not like it to go forth that I approve of it. 
The attitude of the Opposition Parties is rather more forthright. We do not like the Bill and we are not going to approve of it.  Sir John  Forrest, whose name has a certain reverence in antiquity, also had this to say: 
There is nothing new on the face of the earth concerning these matters. The number of electors in Swan has been reduced. The Commissioners seem to have been imbued with the desire to secure equal electorates irrespective of whether or not community of interest was secured. 
He went on: 
At the same time, I think he has made an error of judgment in adhering too closely to the quotas and in not taking advantage, as he might have done and as he had a perfect right to do, of the marginal allowance of 20 per cent. 
So, in terms of redistributions, there is nothing new and our minds are not completely clean. Our minds are not as a tabula rasa. We look at electorates as they serve and as they serve against the interests of parties and of members, and it is for that reason that the Opposition has decided to oppose the electoral redistribution in Queensland. The Opposition says that it would make it unbearably difficult for the Opposition to win even more seats than it does at the present time. But let me clear myself of any impure motives. I am a member who was defeated at the 1972 election and had the privilege of coming back. 
-No, it took more than 3 days, and it was not certain even right at the end. I lost my seat because of the 1968 redistribution, and the present redistribution would marginally improve my seat. As a matter of fact, when I spoke to one very senior Minister in the Governmenta very talented man, a man who is very well respected- he said to me: 'Kevin, we have been looking at your seat for 2 days. We have looked at all the boundaries of your seat. You have the first seat in Queensland that we could pick up, but we could not make the lines worse for you than they are now. It can only improve'. So I wipe my mind quite clear of any impure motives when I vote against the redistribution Bills. 
I find it a little difficult to vote against this redistribution. But then I look at the west of Queensland and the seat of Flynn. I believe that what has happened in regard to this seat gives the overbearing and compelling reason why the legislation deserves to be looked at askance. The seat of Flynn replaces the seat of Kennedy. The seat of Flynn will have an adequate number of voters because it occupies about 19 degrees of longitude and about 18 degrees of latitude. That is an incredible area for an electorate to cover when we consider that almost within every radian there is a pocket or a centre of population. This is an electorate the like of which is not repeated anywhere else in Australia. When one looks, therefore, at a whole State such as my State of Queensland and sees it dominated by the extent of the area which is reserved for one electorate it is almost appropriate to make a judgment in relation to this Bill for the whole State on what happens with respect to that one electorate. 
Honourable members-  Hear, Hear! 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS I hear the cry of 'Hear, Hear! ' from the members of the National Country Party. I know that they would support me in this. I know that they always desire to reduce the amount of area in redistributions and that it was only an accident when in 1968 the seat of Kennedy happened to get down to that lovely little honeypot at Gayndah. I say good luck to them. I did not vote against that redistribution either. So my motives are there to be seen. 
Having indulged in that little bit of history, it is appropriate to go back a little further. No member of Parliament wants to cushion his seat. All members want to live on a knife's edge. It has been said of the Australian Labor Party that it is wrong or incorrect in accepting this redistribution because as a result of it the position of its marginal seats happens to have been improved a little. I said good luck to the ALP. If the Labor Party has been able to secure a redistribution by advancing propositions which the Distribution Commissioners accepted and which improved the position of its most marginal seats, it is showing a very commendable amount of loyalty to its members holding the most marginal seats. Insofar as a party has an obligation to those members who are in the front line and who have the most marginal seats, if the Labor Party's propositions resulted in this redistribution I say good luck to it. I support that principle in its entirety. It deserves to be supported. 
I turn to deal with motives again. It was Disraeli who said in 1880, from the purest of intentions, having lost an election: There are a lot of reasons for losing an election, but I was badgered with 6 bad seasons one after another and all getting worse. Like Napoleon, the elements overcame me. When one looks at redistributions, one looks at a situation in which the elements shall not overcome. That is the basic proposition on which redistributions will be looked at if they are in a narrow interest, but if they are in the wider interest such as the one which occupies our minds completely we say that we will vote against the redistribution for Queensland. Who would accuse political parties or members of Parliament of partisan views? Who would say that to do otherwise would be cruel, vexatious or frivolous with respect to matters such as this? Not I and certainly not members on this side of the House. We will oppose this redistribution. We oppose it because it deserves to be opposed. I fear that before I say very much more I might indicate that my attitude on this occasion will be one of opposition also. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (5.29)- I have been trying to speak on this redistribution for 3 weeks. I state that I am disappointed at the tactics of the Opposition which has tried to gag this debate. The first time that I rose to my feet one of the Opposition members called a quorum. I want to draw the attention of the House and of the electorate to the fact that when the Opposition calls for a quorum it stops its members from coming into the House. In comparison, when the Government calls a quorum, we bring our members into the House. I believe that the Opposition's action in this regard indicates the concern that it has for the normal, ordinary conduct of this House. I want to say that I support the redistribution proposal before the House because I believe that it is consistent with the electoral laws of this country. I also believe that elections should be held on the electoral boundaries determined by the Distribution Commissioners themselves and by no one else. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Commissioner to the International Whaling Commission in 1974, in the Technical Committee stage of the IWC proceedings, (a) vote to support an Antarctic minke whale quota of 7000 with area divisions, (b) vote against a motion for a quota of 5000 Antarctic minke whales; if so, why did he oppose this motion and (c) abstain on a quota of 9000 minke whales in the Antarctic with area divisions; if so, why did he abstain. 
Is there a scientific basis to the setting of the minke quota or is it a fact, as claimed by the  Chairman  of the Scientific Committee,  Dr Lee  Talbot, that the Japanese have forced a situation where quotas are set as they need them. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, the Australian Government should: 
1 ) do all in its power to inform the Australian people as to the extent to which civil, political, social and religious rights continue to exist in South Vietnam, 
not rely exclusively upon United Nations reports in respect of the foregoing, and 
) begin to apply humanitarian principles in its dealings with Vietnamese refugees. 
I address my remarks to the reasons which have been adduced for the House of Representatives disagreeing to the amendment of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-For a very few moments I wish to address my remarks to the reasons which the committee comprising the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  adduces for disagreeing to the amendment of the Senate. The second paragraph of those reasons deserves mention, even if for only one or two moments. The second paragraph casts a reflection upon the past. It is worthy of being considered very carefully by this House. It states: 
In the exercise of the wider functions the Commission now performs of inquiring into applications by local governing bodies for financial assistance- 
These are the important words:  . . . there is probably a greater need for the impartiality and objectivity which accompanied the investigation into applications by claimant States. 
I believe that represents something of a reflection on the past. The words, as they are read, can only be understood to mean what they actually imply- a greater need for the impartiality and objectivity which accompanied the investigation into applications in past years. In the past I have expressed my views concerning the appointment of  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell as  Chairman  of the Grants Commission. In the past I have indicated quite clearly that the judge's past training and experience, especially considering applications by States for assistance from the Grants Commission, did not fit him for that task, but I bowed to the proposition that  His  Honour, having been a judge of the Supreme Court in New South Wales, was entitled to be able to continue to hold a designation which was appropriate to him as a judge. I argued then that it was worth reflecting for a moment on the fact that  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell was being given a title, a status and a position superior to that given to former Chairmen of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I do not agree for one moment, nor will I accede for one moment, that the judge has a position, experience and a title which ought to be in excess of that given, for example, to  Sir Leslie  Melville when he filled this position. I agree that perhaps tradition ought to have a place in this, but the second paragraph of the reasons which are proposed for disagreeing to the amendment of the Senate is unacceptable to me. It indicates that impartiality and objectivity did not exist in the past as they ought to have existed. It also makes it quite clear by implication that a greater expertise is now being given to the task of  Chairman  than existed under the Commonwealth Grants Commission with  Sir Leslie  Melville and others as  Chairman.  I will not agree with that proposition. I make my protest quite clear, and I believe that the protest would be very difficult to deny. 
It is my intention, in speaking briefly to this amendment, to congratulate the Government on going as far as it could possibly go in relation to the nature of surveys conducted by the Statistician. I am a very great user of information supplied by the Statistician. I find it very useful. The services which the Statistician and the Deputy Commonwealth Statisticians in the various States- I do not know whether that is to be their new title- give to members of Parliament and those who have a broad social interest are very beneficial. The amendment which has been proposed and which the Government, in effect, has accepted states that:  . . . each new proposal Tor the collection of information for statistical purposes by the Bureau shall be laid before both Houses of the Parliament before its implementation .   
There is a period of 5 sitting days during which the proposed survey shall lie before the House. 
We are all aware that these days both compulsory surveys and sample surveys concerning households, income, production, social affairs and all kinds of other economic indicators are conducted by the Statistician. I think that the Government, in giving instructions to its own survey collectors, will have to advise them to utilise whatever tact is appropriate, but under no circumstances to allow objections, whether they be valid objections or contrived objections, to destroy the nature of the survey. A survey can so easily be destroyed by those who, for one reason or another, good will or ill will, understanding or misunderstanding, in fact will not co-operate in terms of the survey. I do not know of any cases, even though I have heard rumours otherwise, in which surveys that have been conducted on behalf of the Statistician have resulted in the leaking of information which has been injurious to certain people. I have always admired the Statistician for the way in which he has applied the rules concerning the size of a survey and has not allowed information concerning surveys to be made available to people on an individual basis. 
I say to the Government quite sincerely that I believe that it has gone as far as it could possibly go in accepting the Senate's amendment. I believe that even with this amendment a great deal of tact will be required by the information collectors, by the Statistician and by the Deputy Statisticians in the States in seeing that the applicability, the sense, the wide-ranging verification and the truth of the surveys are not destroyed by people not co-operating. Again I congratulate the Government, and I say that sincerely. 
My question to the Prime Minister comprises 5 sentences. What arrangements for profit sharing have been made between the participants in the Ranger project? How will supervision of the accounts and the revenue from the project be exercised? What part will the Auditor-General and/or the Government play in that supervision? What are the proposed sources of public money for the project? Have any efforts been made to obtain loans overseas or is it intended to obtain loans overseas for the Ranger project? 
-The honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  would know that there are those on this side of the House who appreciate- I am certainly one of them- the great initiative which was shown by some people in Broken Hill when the South Broken Hill mine was closed or proposed to be closed. The honourable member for Darling can take great credit, as can some of his colleagues, for what happened subsequently in Broken Hill as a result of their efforts. From my family background and from my acquaintance with the honourable member I know what a great piece of work was done on that occasion. 
I turn my mind to the Budget and to its circumstances. I go back 18 years and refer to one of the Government's great supporters. He was not always known to be a supporter of the Government then. I turn to the words of  Dr Coombs  who was speaking at the Congress of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science in Perth in 1958. In opening the economic section of that Conference he spoke about economic happiness. He posed a very prescient question. He asked whether it would not be better for those seeking higher money incomes to seek them from the redistributive effects of the taxation and expenditure powers of the Government rather than primarily through higher money wages where the benefits can apparently so easily be taken from them. That was spoken more than a decade and a half ago. There are a number of principles in that statement which deserve to be remembered. At the time  Dr Coombs  was Governor of the central bank, not the Reserve Bank of Australia. He was expressing the view that economic happiness in Australia consisted of independent households, substantially in charge of their own affairs, with the people in those households able to obtain employment. He also spoke about the way in which they could manage those affairs having obtained that employment. He mentioned 3 factors, namely, the redistributive effects of what government is about, the effect of wages and the right of people to spend those wages. Those principles of what economic happiness is about ought to guide any government in the management of the economic affairs of the country and when it determines what the Budget is about. 
I merely mention 2 factors in respect of this matter so that one can make a judgment not so much in terms of the Budget but in terms of the context in which the Budget is introduced. It is a piece of nonsense to take a Budget, look at it in isolation, judge its taxation system in isolation, look at its redistributive effects in isolation and to say that that is one's judgment upon the economic performance of the country. Nobody in his right mind would do that. I make only 2 comments in this context which are important. They relate to employment. At the end of July we had the highest recorded unemployment for many decades. That has to be acknowledged. Sadly, in that unemployment, we see that over a quarter of a million people are out of work. In that figure there is the highest proportion of juniors out of work that we have had for many years. As at the end of July, they are still seeking jobs. That is the first context in which we look at the requirements of economic happiness. The second matter is: Where can productive employment be found and obtained? If we consult the figures on employment for wage and salary earners which were released a day or two ago we see that they immediately give the compass direction in which any government should try to steer the economy. The only private enterprise sector of the Australian economy which over the past year increased even modestly its capacity to provide employment- I think this is a reflection on the Government- was the area of amusements, hotels and personal services. 
-There we are. The honourable member would spend many nights in front of colour television. Every other sector has declined significantly and drastically. Manufacturing, both light and heavy, transportation, commerce and every other private sector has gone backwards. The only ones which have proceeded even a little way ahead are amusements, hotels and personal services. This is the context in which this Budget has to be considered. It is the context which drives people to say immediately that what is required in the economy is a resuscitation of private enterprise. It is only with the resuscitation of private enterprise that we will find full employment so that those in Australian households can be substantially in charge of their own affairs. 
However, if we get to a state where we are in a position of permanent dependence on public authorities, those public authorities will ultimately determine the pattern of our social behaviour. That, philosophically, is the most distressing aspect of what is happening in Australia today. I shall give one or two illustrations. I hesitate to burden the House with figures. I usually do not burden the House with figures. The figures I give can be determined from the national accounts found with the Budget. In 1970-71 for every earned household $1, 28.6c was surrendered to Australian governments, all public authorities, but principally this Government. In 1974-75 34.5c out of each $1 earned which came into Australian households was surrendered in the same way. From the estimates in this Budget, for 1975-76, over 35c of every $1 
Will be surrendered to government. Government is increasingly intruding into the affairs of Australian households. To the extent that it increasingly intrudes into Australian households it will derogate from the independence of those households. This is not the way to obtain full employment for a work force able to determine where it wants to work. I believe that this is the crucial social factor involved in Australian economics today. In fact, what we have in many circumstances in Australian households is, to turn Galbraith around, public wealth and private squalor. I have merely put to the House one of the examples. 
With respect to money spent on education, some magnificent institutions, both public and private, have been built. How much of that money has enabled children to have a better educative background in their own households? How much of it has enabled parents to keep their children at school longer than they would otherwise be without the pressures of unemployment? It is these transfers which philosophically lie at the heart of the difference between the Government's approach and the approach taken by those on this side of the House to the Australian economy. Having said that I must turn, frankly, to the principal ingredient in the Budget document which was brought down by the Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  I hesitate to say that I would look at the Budget documents from the requirements of the Oxley electorate. That is far too narrow. But in terms of the taxation system and in terms of the rebate system which the Treasurer has substantially introduced, together with the deduction system, he deserves to be given some marks. The rebate system, I believe is a much less distortive system than a deduction system on its own. This side of the House does not propose to abolish the rebate system. 
-Of course it is right. That has not been proposed. The Minister would be well aware that this side of the House intends to see that people are put into jobs and that jobs are available for people. The fact of the rebate system has to be acknowledged. But in no way does that system reduce the requirement for the proposition put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for tax indexation in Australia. That remains the crucial economic argument that has to be faced by this country because I believe that without it we will not obtain strong, productive private enterprise once again. 
I always thought that the Asprey Committee, in its comments upon the taxation system, was rather mesmerised by the complaints which obviously had been made to it that the marginal tax system we had previously, with the multitude of steps, was a system which ought to be abolished and that the steps themselves ought to be abolished. The Asprey solution was not to abolish the steps but to abolish the inflation which caused people to be concerned when they moved into new taxation brackets which did not result from an improvement in real standards of living. So whichever way one looks at the taxation system, the rebate system is there. It has certain virtues which ought to be retained. I am sure that this will be retained. But they must be retained within an economy which is developing and which is able to provide employment for people running their own affairs in their own households. That is the difference between a socialist economy and an economy which has some sense of social justice. 
There is a great redistributive effect in the proposed taxation system. One of the beneficiaries will be families with one income earner. These will benefit, and that has to be acknowledged. There are those who will suffer because the real burden of taxation will undoubtedly increase. Figures given here earlier today and calculations made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  indicate quite clearly that the real burden of taxation will increase but within a declining situation, within an economy which had substantially fewer people in work at the end of the last financial year than it had at the beginning of the financial year, the position of households will improve. The fault is that that will occur and will continue to occur within a declining economy. That economy will not be resuscitated unless private enterprise is the means of resuscitating it. 
I wish to make one or two comments concerning criticisms of the propositions put forward by the Leader of the Opposition. For the first time in a debate in this place a Leader of the Opposition has faced the economic problems squarely. On every other occasion- in the many years when I was in government I often responded immediately to a speech by the then Leader of the Opposition- the whole basis of his argument was to avoid the crucial issue. It was on that basis that the then Leader of the Opposition got himself concerned in urban affairs. He would not face the economic issues in 1968 and 1969, and so he became concerned with urban affairs to the detriment of many people in urban Australia. Never before has a Leader of the Opposition said what should be done and set out a workable, viable program. 
It is a piece of arrant nonsense to say that because the alternative Budget constructed by the Leader of the Opposition would have a similar deficit but at a lower total level of expenditure, people therefore would be out of work. That has been the argument of the Government. That is the silliest argument that one has heard. What is happening in Australia today is simply that there is between $2,000m and $3,000m-probably more- of productive capacity not being used because the economy is not being organised correctly. That is a great amount. In making that calculation one must realise that within that amount there is either $l,100m or $l,700m of wages, salaries and supplements not able to be paid within the economy which is working so far below capacity, and there are tens of thousands of people not working because the economy is $2,000m to $3,000m below capacity. 
The prime and overriding requirement in an economy of that nature is not to put forward facetious and meaningless arguments about the financing of a Budget deficit or the size of the Government sector within which the Budget deficit occurs, but to see that private enterprise works so that that gap can be made up. If the gap is made up, we will have that definition of economic happiness to which I referred in the first few moments of my speech this evening. That is the crucial factor. I shall give one illustration. There are $ 100m or more of postal charges which have been imposed upon the Australian community. 
He is your mate. I think he stood for the Australian Labor Party a few years ago and he was beaten then too. The increased charges amounting to S 100m would be unnecessary if the Government did not have to pay for three to three and a half months the extra dole payments for those out of work' at the end of June this year, who were not out of work at the worst period of unemployment in 1972. That is an over-simplified example but it is a very clear example and a very appropriate example to bear in mind when one sees what is not happening within the economy and when one looks to see where the shortfall is occurring. There is an old proverb which says that the horse that really draws the cart is ill-treated. In Australia the horse that is ill-treated has been not only the institutions of private enterprise or the institutions of public corporations but also the Australian working man who has not been able to find work. 
The real transfers within the Australian economy have occurred not so much from private or public corporations to government but from private households to government. They are the 2 ultimate points in an economy that have to be considered. The others are institutions many of which are artificial. But government remains, and one would hope that households remain. Households have been milked in order to feed government, and they have been milked to the detriment of the people trying to determine their own lives. I merely leave this one thought with the Parliament; if the aim is full employment and independent households, full employment has been pursued in some countries but the households have not been independent. This can be found in every socialist or communist country. On the other hand, we have been able to have a situation where there has not been full employment but the households have not been impeded or controlled by government. That was the case 30, 40 or 50 years ago even in western democracies. The aim of any Government in Australia ought to be to combine the two and to recollect the advice which was given in 1958 by a friend of the Government. It is advice which I would have hoped the Government, in a period of 17 years, might have been able to understand and perhaps accomplish. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Canberra Times of 26 May 1975 that a new draft criminal code for the A.C.T. is proposed. 
2 ) Was this code drawn up by  Mr Fisse  of Adelaide. 
3 ) If so, who appointed  Mr Fisse  to settle the terms of the proposed code. 
What are  Mr Fisse  's qualifications and experience. 
5 ) Is the code proposed to be an Ordinance or an Act. 
How and why does this proposed code differ from the previous draft code. 
Was the Law Council of Australia consulted in drawing up the new proposed code; if so, when. 
Will he make available to interested bodies the new proposed code. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and has rather a distant relationship to the one he has just answered. I refer to the welcome initiative by the Australian representative to the United Nations last year concerning the proposed convention on diplomatic asylum. Was the Australian representative,  Mr Brennan,  correct in reflecting the views of his Government when he said that Australia was of the view that the person seeking protection derived his rights merely from his quality as a person in need of protection and from nothing else?' As it was further made clear that this proposed convention was seeking to apply the same principles as followed in connection with the rights of territorial asylum and the convention on the rights of refugees, I ask the Prime Minister: Because of the need to at least appear to be truthful to the rest of the world will he withdraw the quite un-Australian shackles that he has placed on a number of Vietnamese refugees which still prevent them from pursuing in this country their full political rights? 
-The Government is guilty of two serious errors in this matter. The first is in the motion that it has put before the House; it is about to make the second. The first error was made when paragraph (3) was included in the motion moved in the House by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  Those of us who thought that the Government may have had some addiction to the truth in respect of these matters or some addiction to propriety or to convention, had that immediately swept away when we read the sense, the substance and the emphasis of paragraph (3) of the motion moved by the Leader of the House. I will deal with that aspect a little later. The second error to which I refer is an error that I believe the Government is about to commit by voting against the truth and substance of the amendment moved by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  Not one word of that amendment is incorrect. Not one word of that amendment is out of order. To propose that we follow convention and practice to seek to defeat an amendment which is in all cases true and correct is an exercise in hypocrisy and it deserves to be exposed. 
Today I have heard a turgid recount of history, particularly by the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh). His  speech was unconvincing. He certainly does not convince himself. What is most difficult to take is the unctuous piety without parallel with which the sacred principle is proposed but which the honourable member himself does not even understand. I put it to the House: How will the Government vote in respect of the amendment of substance, moved by the Leader of the National Country Party and seconded by me, which reflects the truth of the situation? After all, this is a firm proposition and a firm question to ask: What is a convention? A convention is basically a respected practice based upon tradition. No matter how one defines the convention under consideration, that convention does not require any State parliament to accept without question and without regard to past practice any nomination for the Senate. 
I rely on 2 bases for looking at the convention. Obviously the Constitution itself has a part in developing the convention. The Constitution itself in respect of these matters is quite clear. I read one sentence from section 15 of the Constitution: 
If the place of a senator becomes vacant before the expiration of his term of service, the Houses of Parliament of the State for which he was chosen, shall, sitting and voting together, choose a person to hold the place until the expiration of the term . . . 
The important words are that the Parliament shall choose a person. Not only has that choice been stated and exercised by the Queensland Parliament in the past but also has it been advocated by leading members of the Australian Labor Party in that Parliament. It has been advocated by a former Leader of the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament who said that his Party wanted a choice. 
We take the meaning of 'convention' as being a respected practice based upon tradition. The Government has quoted from Odger's  Australian Senate Practice  to seek some support for its argument. I quote from page 58 of Odgers: 
In the choice of a senator to fill a casual vacancy the members of the Houses of a Parliament of a State are free to choose whom they may. 
That is the statement from Odgers. Now, the Queensland Government - 
That is right.  Senator Bonner  was not rejected when nominated. A choice was not called for. That is the statement made by  Sir Gordon  Chalk at the time. It is in the  Hansard  of the Queensland Parliament. I will refresh the memory of the honourable member with respect to that  Hansard  report in a few moments. Insofar as the convention is based upon some kind of history and some kind of past practice, both the Constitution and Odgers 's  Australian Senate Practice  support the Government. I do not go so far as to say that a member should be chosen by a State contrary to, opposite to or other than from the party to which the retired senator, the defeated senator or the senator whose resignation has occurred, belonged. I do not go so far as to say that. But I say that the Parliament has a right of choice in the matter of the replacement senator. 
I am reinforced most strongly in my views by former officials, leading members and front bench members of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland. I refer honourable members to the Queensland  Hansard of  1 1 June 1971. There are some delightful words here.  Mr P.  Wood, who was a front bench member of the Opposition on that occasion- the occasion concerned the appointment of a person to fill the vacancy caused by the retirement of  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin- had certain things to say. I understand that  Mr Wood  is now the endorsed Labor candidate for the Federal seat of Leichhardt. I am informed by my colleagues that in fact the endorsed candidate is the twin brother of  Mr P.  Wood. That is close enough for me.  Mr P.  Wood is a former front bench member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly and on the occasion in question he was a shadow Minister. On this occasion, he said: 
Well, why didn't you give us a choice? 
He wanted a choice. On another occasion, the then  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party who was later Leader of the Party,  Mr Perc  Tucker, had this to say - 
This man became Leader of the Labor Party in Queensland. He said: 
Without detracting in any way from  Mr Bonner's  nomination, I should like to refer again to the words of Premier Nicklin when  Mr Arnell  was nominated to take the place of the late  Dr Poluter.  Premier Nicklin, a very great Premier of this State, is reported at page 604, volume 233, of  Hansard  in these words - 
Former Premier Nicklin was praised. That quotation from  Hansard  reads: 
It is evident that pressure has been brought to bear on the Parliamentary Labor Party by the all-powerful QCE to nominate only one person - 
I will leave that aspect of politics out of it: . . . thereby depriving Parliament of its right of a choice. The Parliament is not going to be denied the right of a choice. 

 - Mr Tucker, later to be Leader of the Labor Party in Queensland. Later in the debate, he had this to say: 
. 'Parliament must have a choice'. However, on this occasion we are not given any choice by the Liberal Party, or by the Country Parry; we are given one name only. 
In making the case over and over again,  Mr Tucker  had a greater sense of history and a more perceptive sense of what the convention was about. He knew that the convention was as to choice. It was not as to the imposition of a choice. The Parliament itself could decide. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.1 5 p.m. 

The debate on the motion moved by the Leader of the House is about the convention concerning the choice by a State Parliament of a representative to sit in the Senate. The convention is simply that there be a choice of people from a Party, not a choice imposed by a Party. There is a world  of difference between each of those situations. It has been shown incontestably that the convention as determined by the Constitution and as determined even by practice of the Senate, as interpreted by Odgers, is much narrower than the Opposition is putting it. So I put to the Government that it ought to acknowledge what the convention is, what the practice is and what are the rules of tradition that ought to be followed by a State Parliament. There are no poll.tics in this whatever. The clear rule is what the convention is and what it has been in the past. 
It has also been shown that the leaders of the Labor Party in Queensland propose that the same kind of practice as is involved in the amendment to the motion moved by the Opposition be followed. The same principles have been proposed by them. I find it a little difficult to see how a government can attempt to escape that position. The process is a little like the Moscow Circus, if I may put it that way. It is a great feat when the actors perform a loop-the-loop and land on their feet. The crowd is happy and the crowd applauds. But when they do the looptheloop and land on their faces the crowd is sad and is hurt. Here the Opposition is sad and hurt because the Government has landed on its face. It has misunderstood completely what the convention is. It has ended up being something different from what it began in the Government's mind. We are hurt because the convention is not even recognised by the Government. So we invite the Government to support the amendment that has been moved. Not one word of the amendment has been exposed to be incorrect or untruthful. Not one word of the amendment can be shown to be other than a reflection of the statements that have been made by the leaders of the Government and by members of the Executive Council in Queensland. 
The honourable member for Maranoa can use his imagination. There was a great racehorse called Manaroa which I backed for years but it never came in. The Opposition says 'no more loops, no more falls'. We invite the Government to support the amendment which reads: 
That the following words be added at the end of paragraph (3): ', but notes that a statment has been made by the Premier on behalf of the Queensland Government that it will recommend to the Queensland Parliament that the vacancy be filled by a member of the same political party as the late  Senator Milliner,  that is the Australian Labor Party'. 
Nothing is clearer than that. Nothing is more in line with the statements made by the Australian Labor Party Leader of the Opposition in Queensland 4 years ago. We invite the Government to support the amendment because of those facts and those facts alone. 
I refer to clause 4 of the Bill relating to the duties of the Collector. I pose one or two questions to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  which seem to me to be questions of common sense. I hope that he will indicate how they will be resolved. It is quite clear that the export duty will apply to cokes of higher than 85 per cent ash content, but I appreciate that the determination of the ash content of the mineral involves a very large degree of error. I understand that this occurs under the ultimate analysis characteristic. There is a margin of error of plus or minus 5 per cent to 10 per cent. Mineralogists, metallurgists and mining engineers all indicate that the ultimate analysis involves a large degree of error. So I ask the Minister, if the publication Survey of Eastern Australian Coal of Coking Potential is to be used- this was a survey conducted by the Joint Coal Board and the Queensland Coal Board- on what basis would that indicate that a product with an ash content of 84.71 per cent would escape the levy and yet one with a content of 85.02 per cent would attract the levy. There will be a degree of accuracy in imposing and accepting certain of these products for levies which is quite out of character with what occurs in fact. 
In the Kianga-Moura mine one lot of coal has an ash content of just over 85 per cent and the other of 84.71 per cent. How will a judgment be made with any semblance of justice? How can the Government exclude from the levy the product with the 84.7 1 per cent content? This is a very important matter. In tables 5, 6 and 7 of this publication one finds a whole list of the carbon contents of the coal or the coke. Which ones are to be accepted and which ones are to attract the penalty? The matter deserves to be looked at. There are anthracite coals which have an ash content of over 90 per cent. Are they to be accepted or will they attract the levy? What is to happen? There is a list of fifty or sixty different kinds of products on which it is appropriate for the Minister to make a statement. After all, the whole problem with this industry now is that there is very great uncertainty. For the first time an effective export tax is to be levied. In an economic sense it is an appalling thing to do. In terms of the allocation of resources in Australia it will have very deleterious effects on any industry which is oriented towards export markets and on any industry whose export markets might improve. It will have very deleterious effects on those parts of Australia where people are in employment, where people have a certain standard of living and where people have jobs, because of the ripple and the feedback effects of export industries. The Minister's attention ought to be directed to the uncertainty that will apply in this area. Something has to be done for the future. 
-I think that any significant new expansion should have an exemption from export duty which could be written off over the time it takes to write off the original investment. There ought to be an inspection of the procedures appropriate to that which would be more rigorous than those that applied to Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd in relation to the Bougainville operation.  Mr Chairman,  I see that the honourable member is becoming excited. You will appreciate that I was induced to make that comment. 
-In 3 sentences, the case that I put in respect of this clause was that having a cut-off point of 85 per cent did not allow for the fact that the margin of error on the ultimate analysis of the ash content of the coal was plus or minus 5 per cent or 10 per cent. Those people skilled in the industry all say this; and they know it. The people who deal with coal know it too. Does this mean, therefore, that some coal which, as set out in the publication which I mentioned earlier- I am sure that it would be used- happens to draw 84.71 per cent or 84.9 per cent, is immediately exempt and is not considered; but that coal with a content from 85.1 per cent, as there are some in this document, attracts the export levy? I ask the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Lionel Bowen):  Does he consider that this difference, given a margin of error of 5 per cent to 1 0 per cent, is any real basis on which to send a big enterprise into a position where it cannot expand or enable jobs to be secured? That is the ultimate argument. 
This comes from a Party which has introduced, after a lot of consideration, a new taxation system. What this legislation proposes is an indirect tax which is regressive and which is inaccurate in its application. It will have very bad economic effects. I am looking for the precision not appropriate to a man with legal training, but the precision which is told to the Minister by those people who, I presume, have technical training in the field. In this House no answer has been given which has gone even close to answering the proposition which I put to the Minister. I believe that the Parliament desires and deserves an answer. I am concerned at the inaccuracy of the determination, its uncertainty and the justice between those on 84.8 per cent or so, which is just below the margin, and those who are just above the margin. Also, the proposition concerning the blending of the coals has not been dealt with. It has not been made clear at what spot, when, and how often, the ash content is to be determined. The Minister cannot ignore these propositions. 
-This is rather a sad occasion, because the propositions that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  has made with respect to the Bill are themselves unexceptionable. They can be summed up in 2 sentences from the Minister's second reading speech. The Minister dwelt first of aU on the proposition that trade has always been quite crucial to the facts and the development of the Aus.tralian economy. He dwelt on the 3 reasons for which he wanted this Overseas Trading Corporation. I should like to recount them. The Minister said: 
The economic growth and well being of the Australian economy are directly linked to its ability to sustain continued development of its overseas trade- 2-way trade, both imports and exports. 
Nothing could be truer than that statement. In elaborating on the 3 reasons for which the Aus.tralian Overseas Trading Corporation was to be developed, the Minister said: 
This Corporation could assist two-way trading development in 3 important areas, firstly, trade with the centrally planned economies; secondly, trade arrangements with the Middle East oil-exporting countries; and thirdly, assisting small Australian manufacturers and processors into overseas trade. 
Having known the Minister for a long time, we know him to be a very truthful Minister and a very honourable Minister. He has never been known to be a devious one. I look through the substance of his speech and his intentions, and with his speech I can find nothing wrong, but it is a sad set of circumstances because the events of the Government have overtaken him. The Bill exists as a Government Bill, and one can only assess this Bill against the totality of the Government's attitude towards the development of trade. If there is any fault, it is not that of the Minister for Overseas Trade; it is the fault of the Government. It is the Government which is bringing down this legislation and which will ultimately, I believe. prevent it from being passed. 
Why does one say that? Last night in this House there was debated at great length a Bill to impose a levy on coal exports. This was a uniquely new measure aimed at inhibiting or cutting the returns of the coal mining industry or preventing new developments in Australia 's most dynamically developing export industry. In terms of efficiency, judged by the acceptability of its product on the world market, it would be the most quickly growing, efficient industry in Australia. That is one of the circumstances which will cause this Bill to be opposed by the Opposition. After all, how can the Government support in this House the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill when a few hours previously it was talking of adopting unique measures which Will disadvantage the most efficient, growing, exporting industry in the country. That is the first set of circumstances that causes the Opposition side of the House to have its doubts. 
As the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  intimated a few moments ago, the export incentives for a number of industries which have been removed could have been retained. Once again there has to be a doubt about the circumstances of the Bill which will inhibit its progress. Finally, were the 
Government desirous of just proposing a tax on the most efficient exporting industry in Australia today, which is the coal mining industry, and if it did not want to prevent the further development of that industry, it could adopt quite easily the proposal of giving an export tax holiday to any substantial new development and then leave the tax where it is for the present industries. But because no such proposals as this have been adopted, we on the Opposition side of the House have to look askance at this legislation and have to look at it rather suspiciously. 
In fact what happens philosophically is this: As soon as one talks about export industries, one has to talk about efficiency. As soon as one talks about efficiency, there springs to mind that most important slogan which was manufactured by a Minister of the Government. It states: 'What is wanted is for Australia to do most what it can do best'. But that is not the philosophy of this Bill. The philosophy of this Bill and of the Government has been that the Government should do least what Australia can do best or it should do most what Australia can do worst, and that is no sufficient or satisfactory background for a Bill which requires trust in the matter of overseas trade- imports and exports. I say all of that and immediately acknowledge that the amendments that have been circulated by the Minister deal sincerely and honestly with a number of the deficiencies in the Bill. There is no doubt about that. I do not believe it could be argued in any other way. But the reasonable doubt has to be sustained. 
I say one further thing concerning the general philosophy on export and import trade. When an error is made in this area it reverberates continually throughout the economy. It cannot be insulated. It is useful to recount a point of history. A book has just been written on the late James Scullin, who was Prime Minister over 40 years ago. One of the most tragic errors that was ever committed in terms of an export industry was his famous plea of 4 March 1930. He said: 
We must increase our production of exportable goods. These are necessarily primary products, and the industry which can most readily respond to proposals for increasing production is the wheat growing industry. 
The ones who suffered the loss, tragically, as a result of that decision for more than a decade were the wheat growers of Australia, men who carried on one of our great exporting industries. In terms of export trade and its development it is those who participate and who produce directly in the field who have to be considered and who have to be concerned. They are the ones who are affected. One other example is worth bearing in mind, and that is the nature of the Australian economy as it has developed since World War II. There have been 4 significant recessions in the Australian economy since World War II and one half-recession. The first 3 recessions were due to the problems of balance of payments. One occurred in the very early 1950s, one in 1956 and one in 1961. They were all related to a lack of balance with respect to trade. The Minister, in the first sentences of his second reading speech said:  . . . two-way trade, both exports and imports. 
A smaller recession occurred in the middle 1960s. The only recession which has occurred which has not been due to a balance of payments problem is the one which this country is currently suffering. Nevertheless, without dwelling upon the circumstances of this last recession, the export and import industries cannot be put aside like any other industry. They are vital, ultimately, in a large trading nation, to the increase in standards of living, which cannot be sustained by a small manufacturing sector catering for a small population. It is as significant as that. 
Therefore one has to look at the circumstances of the Bill and the philosophy of it. I do not doubt the Minister's intention for one moment. The position today, in terms of imports and exports, is much more sanguine and much more healthy than it was in any of the earlier situations to which I have referred. We have been blessed with great resources which have been discovered and which the world wants. There is a feedback effect from these industries which causes the Industries Assistance Commission and anybody with common sense to say that Australia must do most what it can do best. I refer now to the development of trade. I have looked at the first proposition of the Minister. He says that the Bill is designed to assist the development of trade with respect to the centrally planned economies. The centrally planned economies at the moment do not have a large proportion of Australian trade. Australia's share of the total proportion of trade exports in the centrally planned economies in 1963-64 was 11.5 per cent. Today it has declined to 6 per cent. I hesitate to bore the House with the figures, but they are not large. I think that is the point that I want to make. With respect to the Middle East countries, which is the other area to which the Minister has referred, the figures have increased from 1 per cent to 3 per cent. In both cases, the figures are low. I believe they will not remain a large proportion of Australia's export trade. Similarly with respect to imports the figures again remain low. Because I believe it is an essential question to be asked in relation to this Bill, I ask: In what way is this 
Overseas Trading Corporation going to assist further in the development of overseas trade that is not available at the present time? How will it help? How can it provide assistance that is not provided at the present time. 
I ask honourable members to look at the relevant clause of the Bill. I believe that the most important clause that needs to be examined deals with national interest. Naturally enough, I am always interested to know in what way national interest will be defined. National interest in this Bill is denned in a very general and a very cursory manner. It is not enough to say that because the present capital of the Corporation is not large or that the present totality of transactions which it can undertake is not large, therefore everything is all right and once something is there it can be expanded. As the only member here who voted against the Bill to establish the Australian Industries Development Corporation, I understand that reasonably well. Sub-clause (5) of clause 13 of the national interest clause states: 
Where an approval is given under sub-section (3), the Corporation is, subject to this Part- 
This is language for the lawyers -  empowered to engage in the transaction in accordance with the approval and, unless the approval-  of the Minister -  is revoked, shall not decline to do so. 
That is a very strong clause. It has great power with respect to national interest. I ask: How is national interest to be defined? It is not sufficient to say that national interest means that something is not of a commercial nature and it is not a transaction that would otherwise occur. Australians have a right to ask: 'What is the national interest?' How is it to be defined? Will all the details of the transactions that could occur in respect of national interest be disclosed? This is a very important point, whether the Corporation is small or whether it is large. The last thing in the world I would do would be to introduce politics into this matter. 
I should like to diverge for a moment to examine a significant address that was made by Solzhenitsyn to the American trade union movement on 30 June this year- the end of our financial year and not theirs. In that address- I am paraphrasing it- he made it clear that one of the great problems in the United States in terms of trade was that an alliance could be found between what he called American capitalists and leaders of Russia which acts to the disadvantage of the United States. He said that had been occurring for a long time. When one recollects what occurred with respect to the American grain deals- grain deals which deprived the American economy and the American people of that commodity and which worsened, as the Minister knows - 
That is right. It worsened the American recession and it heightened inflation. The definition of national interest has to be considered. It cannot be ignored. A whole host of questions need to be asked about the way in which national interest should be defined. It needs to be defined, not simply in terms of not being a matter of commercial significance. I put this proposition to the Minister, acknowledging all the time his great goodwill in these matters and, as I have always said, his basic and essential honesty. After all, in terms of those grain deals, not only were the American economy and the American people disadvantaged, but also they represented an effective subsidy to the Russians of some hundreds of millions of dollars. 
I turn now to introduce the politics of the matter into the debate. This needs to be considered if detente is looked at realistically and is seen not merely as an abolition of conflict but as the ability to persist in conflict by other means. All the theoreticians in centrally planned economies make that statement. I have been to 2 such countries recently and I found that the Russians continue to make those statements. We want to know how the national interest is to be defined in terms of Australia's best interest and Australia's best determination. We want to know what would be the nature of the deals and the economic circumstances of the deals that Australia would pursue and how the national interest itself would be defined. 
In many ways I believe that it is a sad picture. The Minister has proposed 5 amendments. In looking at them quickly- I hope that one will not be committed to this statement later- I do not believe that many of them are wrong. I believe them to be a sincere attempt to meet and do meet a lot of the inadequate clauses in this Bill but they do not meet the circumstances under which the Minister has to function. The circumstances have to be looked at in this light: What has been the Government's attitude towards export industries? What has been the Government's attitude in terms of revaluations, Australia's great export industries, export incentives and assistance- legitimate assistance- to those industries that are in trouble? Professor Gruin, a Government adviser, delivered a superb lecture several months ago to the Queensland Economic Society which I noticed has been published in a journal. He indicated in that lecture that the great problem with Australian industries that are open to overseas competition is not revaluation but the domestic economy. 
I do not know about that. He is a nice gentleman. He is a friend of mine. However, this is a sad picture and it is sad because the Minister's intentions cannot be questioned. Unfortunately, those circumstances must render the propositions of this Bill to be barren so far as the Opposition is concerned and so far as those who are engaged directly in the export trade in particular are concerned. They have to be looked at askance and very suspiciously. 
I shall take only two or three minutes of the Committee's time. I suggest that the amendments proposed by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  on behalf of the Government tend to fix up quite a deal that was wrong with clause 10, and that ought to be appreciated. I know that the amendments proposed omit reference to a particular importer and effectively substitute other words in another concept. I do not believe it is any substitute to say that once a market is established for a particular operator the Corporation is to be prohibited from operating in that market altogether. Some criticisms of this clause are that it comes dangeroulsy close to the situation where those who would object might seek to obtain, to have and to keep monopoly rights into and out of a particular market. I do not believe that would be acceptable to any fair minded person. I ask the Minister a question relating to the word ' knows ' in the first line of clause 10, which states: 
Where the Board knows that a person is carrying on an established and continuing business ... the Corporation shall not arrange - to have activity in that market unless a certain set of conditions is satisfied. My query to the Minister is: What is the test of knowledge? I appreciate that in certain of the taxation laws the Commissioner of Taxation is allowed to undertake certain action if he thinks that a certain set of circumstances operates. But what is the test of knowing? In these circumstances knowledge could be legitimately assumed of a particular set of circumstances. The Board could operate in that market and nobody would have any way of saying: 'There was available to the Board a reasonable knowledge that a set of circumstances existed there'. 
It is a very difficult question and proposition. While I concede immediately that the amendments that the Minister has proposed attempt to go a long way to meeting the objections to this clause, I should be anxious to hear from the Minister what he considers to be the test of knowledge on which the Board's operations or lack of operations could depend. It is quite crucial to this clause. It certainly determines the list of exceptions which allow the Board's operations be conducted, as specified in clause 10. (1) (a) to (d). But it is the test of knowledge and how it is to be determined, what it is and the way it could be subsequently checked by a body competing with the Board's activities that lies at the heart of a lot of this proposed legislation. 
-I refer to one item in the Advance to the Treasurer which requires some elucidation. It is the advance nominated as payments to or for the States and appears on page 35 of the document on the Advance to the Treasurer. It is division 873 and refers to assistance for welfare housing under the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. The Advance to the Treasurer was made very late in the financial year, and that is the reason why this advance of $ 10.4m appears in the Advance to the Treasurer. The events which have transpired consequent upon that advance being made to the States in June last year deserve to be explored. I consider that a very great and significant error has been made in respect of that advance. 
When one looks at that advance and at the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  it is quite clear that the Budget Speech indicated that the advances to the States for welfare housing were to be kept at the same level as they were in the previous year. I refer to page 1 1 of the Treasurer's speech. Bearing in mind both of those facts, the Advance to the Treasurer and the Budget Speech which reflected the advance for welfare housing, an error has been made. The error has been made in relation to the $ 10.4m mentioned in the Advance to the Treasurer. What has happened clearly is that for this year the $ 10.4m has been taken off the advances to the States for welfare housing. Not only has that amount been taken off; in fact the total amount taken off is double that amount, namely, $20.8m. I hope that the Government can give an explanation. It is indeed an error. 
I preface the remarks I will be able to make in the few minutes that I have available by saying that in December last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was campaigning in the Queensland election. He was pretty unsuccessful. In campaigning in that election, he said that the Queensland Government was assured of a blank cheque for welfare housing for all those contracts that it could let. The blank cheque has not been given; in fact, there has been a deduction from the amounts to be given to 3 States which is not explained and which, I believe, is a significant bookkeeping error. The reductions in the advances to Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania have been exactly twice the amount nominated as having been given to those States in the Advance to the Treasurer. I believe that what has happened is this: As the amount was given late in the financial year the Government said that that advance would be taken into account in the subsequent year. So, $ 10.4m was taken off the amount to go to the States in the subsequent year. Then, when an amount was to be given for this financial year, 1975-76, the Government said to the States: 'You have already had that amount; so we will take that oft* again'. So, there is a subtraction of $20. 8m from the amounts available to the States in respect of welfare housing. 
This has happened in respect of Queensland whose amount has been reduced from over $40m to $31m; it has happened in respect of Tasmania which has been deprived of $4m; and it has happened in respect of Western Australia which also has been deprived of $4m. I hope that the Government can give an explanation in regard to the amounts which are due to those 3 
States in terms of the welfare housing commitment of this Government What has happened is that well over 2500 fewer homes will be able to be built as a result of the subtraction of money. I believe that this was never intended. I say to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean)  that I hope the Government looks to see what has happened to the $ 10.4m. I believe that there has been a double subtraction of that amount from the amount due to the States in toto for welfare housing. The present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  certainly had this in mind at a Housing Ministers conference in Queensland in June. At the time he had not been a Minister for long. I intend to read one sentence of what he said. It is a long sentence, but it is pregnant with meaning. He said: 
The funds that will now be available to Queensland and Western Australia are clearly advanced on the basis that they will be considered in the light of next year's commitments in the same way as funds that have been made available to other States will have to be considered next year in the light of what has been achieved and what has been made available in the last year. 
That is a long sentence. It is a rather turgid sentence. Quite clearly it says 2 things: It says that an amount of money had been advanced in that month and that what would happen in respect of one State because of that advance would happen in respect of other States. In this case, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia have not been penalised because of the advances made for their housing commitments last year. The other 3 States in Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania- have been penalised twice over. As the amount that has been subtracted happens to be exactly twice what was promised, I believe that there has been a simple bookkeeping error. It could happen quite easily. In fact, the amounts that have been given to each State conform exactly with that explanation. There is no other explanation for the circumstances. 
The Treasurer in his Budget Speech presumed that the amounts to be advanced this year would be the same as in the previous year. He was under a misapprehension. The Minister for Housing and Construction was under a misapprehension when that promise was made in June. There are so many circumstances that dovetail in respect of this matter. I hope that an explanation can be given of division 873 on page 35 of the document on the Advance to the Treasurer. Money is needed in this area of housing activity. There has been no significant upturn in housing activity which would compensate for what is to be done in the public welfare housing field. Figures released yesterday by the savings banks and the building societies indicate that the money that is being advanced for housing is being used overwhelmingly to buy old homes. It is not being utilised to build and to develop new homes. Only two in every seven homes for which advances are being made by these 2 groups of institutions- the savings banks in toto and the building societies in toto- are in fact new homes. 
The circumstances which require that there be no reduction even of the money amounts for welfare housing, I believe, are rather overwhelming. Even if the money is left at the same amount as in the previous year, there is a reduction in the number of homes. For Queensland there is a reduction of about 30 per cent. For Western Australia there is a reduction of, I believe, 20 per cent. For Tasmania there is a smaller reduction in the actual money amounts available. When that is added to the inflationary situation, the capacity to build homes with that money in the light of what has been accomplished in the last year, to use the Minister's own words, deserves to be acknowledged and account ought to be given to it. 
So I ask the  Deputy  Prime Minister, who is a fair minded man whom I have known for a long time, to look at what has happened. I give him the 3 references: Page 1 1 of the Budget Speech and the Treasurer's Statement; page 35 of the Advance to the Treasurer; and the promises made by the Minister for Housing and Construction at the Housing Ministers meeting in Brisbane in June of this year. The  Deputy  Prime Minister will find, if the bookkeeping is analysed, that an error has been made which can have quite grievous consequences for those people on low incomes who require welfare homes, housing commission homes, and home builders' account advances. Those advances will not be able to be made under the circumstances that apply at the moment I ask the  Deputy  Prime Minister to examine that proposition. 
-Not surprisingly my concern over the next 10 minutes Will be with the state of development of Brisbane Airport. I was delighted once again to hear of the concern- it has been a continuing concern over a long time- of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  Both he and I and the whole State of Queensland are concerned with what has not been done in the Queensland's capital city airport. By way of introduction may I say that this is the only capital city airport in Australia which has been neglected by government over many years. But most tragically it has been neglected by this Government which continually has broken specific promises since the middle of 1972. No doubt the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in concerning himself with this area would like to echo the words of  Sir John  Latham, a former Chief Justice of Australia and a former Leader of the Opposition, who when he was asked about the intrusion of the Commonwealth into matters of transport had this to say over 40 years ago: 
We have no wish to insert our ringers into a machine with so many sharp knives revolving in so many different directions. That is to say, we have no intention of interfering with the transport problem. 
There is not the slightest doubt that, presented with a list of broken promises, substituted promises and forgotten pledges, that ought to be the motto of the present Minister for Transport. Political motivation bears in on us all. All we are trying to do is to see that the promise and the initial action taken by the previous Government at the end of 1971 is carried to fruition and that the promises made in the areas in which both the honourable member for Griffith and myself were interested in 1972 are carried out. They have not been carried out. 
Very shortly and very quickly I want to say this: At this stage the capital city airport of Brisbane should, according to the plan adopted by government in late 1971 and authorised by this Government, should now be having fill on the principal new runways. This fill should be being deposited at the moment. It is not being deposited and there has been a litany- a continuous list- of broken pledges made in 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1975. I make it quite clear to the Government that I Will follow this matter as the hound follows the hare. Ultimately, we will catch up with it. We intend to persist and catch up with it. 
Why is the Brisbane Airport important to Queensland? It is important to that State because it is the State's major capital city airport. Promises made to that State have been broken. The airport also is important for some social reasons. These may not impress supporters of the Government but they do exist. People who live in the vicinity of a capital city airport are troubled by pollution particularly noise pollution. I speak particularly of people who have lived in the region for many years before the airport was established. The airport has intruded upon thenlives; they have not intruded upon the life of the airport. If one is concerned with pollution, particularly noise pollution, and the environment this ought to be a matter of very great concern to them. 
The airport is almost completely neglected in this year's Estimates. The allocation this year in real terms- for instance in terms of money appropriated in 1 97 1 -72- is less than it was in those years. The allocation has not only remained stationary but it has also in fact receded; it has regressed; it has gone backwards. Every regression that takes place is a testament to a broken promise. 
So I put this proposition to the Minister and I hope that he will bear it in mind. I hope that he will pay some attention to the debate that is taking place in this chamber. The airport question has been referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics. There is a suspicion that it has been transferred to the Bureau of Transport Economics not to find out the best way of implementing the promise that has been made but as a way of postponing the project and finding an excuse for not carrying out that promise. I ask the Minister specifically whether the Bureau of Transport Economics in its charter of investigation can say that the promise made need not be carried out. Do the terms of reference allow the Bureau of Transport Economics to say, as  Dr Coombs  said: 'Do not go on with the job ? That is a specific question to the Minister and requires a precise and specific answer. 
I have my suspicions in this matter because once I realised towards the end of last year that we were in another depression state of unemployment and that we were going to have the unemployment relief schemes of the 1930s- that is all they are- regurgitated in a form appropriate to the 1970s, I made propositions to the Minister which would have allowed the Regional Employment Development scheme to be applied to the first steps in the development of the airport. The use of the RED scheme for this purpose was put to the Minister quite precisely with detailed evidence of how the mangrove swamps which had to be eliminated to enable runway 02 to be developed could be eliminated. The Minister's Department has had experience at other airports in this work. It could have done it here without liaison with State authorities. The work could have been done in the Federal jurisdiction without the need to go beyond it. It was a labour intensive project. That proposition was put to the Minister and not acceded to. 
I hope that the Minister, when further development occurs and when unemployment grows as the year progresses, will not put that proposition aside. There are tens of thousands of people unemployed, and more will become unemployed in that area of the State. Will the Minister consider utilising that unemployed work force for the purpose of eliminating the mangrove swamps which is necessary as the first stage of development of runway 02. The unemployed resources can also be utilised to develop the floodway to the north of the airport. These are both labour intensive works and can be done with the skill, experience and knowledge which is presently available within the Department. Unlike other unemployment relief schemes there needs to be no acquiesence by or co-operation or involvement of other areas or authorities of government. I hope that the Minister will be able to answer my question. 
Besides reminding him of the broken promises, I put one further proposition to him. It is simply this: The plan adopted for the airport requires that there be several new runways. Those runways have to be filled. I have written a letter to the Minister indicating that the fill for the new runways is to be obtained in an area of Moreton Bay known as Middle Banks. The fill will be predominantly coarse and medium grade sand. I am pleased, and this is a plaudit I give to him, that the Minister has acknowledged that when the airport proceeds- and we will be after it as a hound the hare- discussions will be held with the other authorities concerned with development of bayside areas in Australia's most northerly capital city to enable more of that sand to be made available for depositing on the bayside areas to improve those areas. Discussions can be held at the appropriate time and I am delighted that the Minister has agreed that at that time- though I do not think he will be in his present position when the time comes- the promise will be adhered to. I direct this matter in some sense more to the honourable member for 
Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  than to the Minister for Transport because the honourable member for Gippsland will be the Minister then. I know that he will not renege on the promise of discussions which the Minister gave on that matter. 
One further point that needs to be made in my last 30 seconds, and it should not be forgotten, is that promises made in the early 1970s have been put aside and neglected. Brisbane has been neglected more than any other part of Australia, and the Labor Government, through a series of deceptive measures, has sought to create the impression that there has been no neglect. Very sadly and unfortunately, there has been neglect and the Minister would have been far wiser if he had kept his lingers out of the revolving blades because they have been cut off and we on this side now want to make sure that they are not allowed to heal without our attention. 
-I address a question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the appointment of the new Australian ambassador to South Vietnam or, in reality, to the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. Has the Government established the credentials of the receiving PRG authorities to act as an independent de facto government of South Vietnam? Will he give details of this? Is the Government aware that Pham Hung, No. 3 or No. 4 in the North Vietnamese Politburo, is acknowledged around the world as the real ruler of South Vietnam? In other words, what action has the Government taken to ensure that it has not sent an ambassador to a non-existent government in the guise of an effective military occupation force? 
-This Bill relates to the redistribution of electorates in Tasmania. I would only plead that I be permitted the same kind of elastic interpretation of the Standing Orders as has applied in the past. If I may in 5 minutes take advantage of that interpretation of the Standing Orders - 
I shall take only 5 minutes of the Committee's time. The principles involved in these amendments and in the relevant clauses of the Bill need to be elucidated. I shall do so in a very short time. One of the best statements that has been made by any Government Minister and certainly the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  when he was Minister for Manufacturing Industry was that Australia should do most what it can do best. It was an absolutely superb statement which had about it all the canons of economic sense, all the prospects of raising standards of living and all those prospects concerning the allocation of resources in Australia which sensible economic management should be able to secure. Unfortunately, this measure flies directly in the face of that canon- of that doctrine- because what this measure is saying is that Australia should do least what it can do best, that Australia should penalise what it can do best or, alternatively, that Australia should do most what it can do worst. That is what is involved in this Bill. 
So it is on a very important principle as to the allocation of resources in an economy that one needs to have doubts about the ultimate wisdom of this measure. I do not intend to look at the economics of it in detail or to see what it really means in terms of revenue to the Government. But in the last 2 minutes of this 5-minute speech I wish to put a proposition. What is involved now is that there should be 3 categories according to which levies are to be put upon coal. There is the category of 85 per cent and over carbon content and below that there are 2 categories of $2 a tonne and one where that levy will not apply if certain conditions are required as to ash content and the swelling content of the mineral. Where once there was one category there are now 3 points of determination. 
I put this prospect to the Minister: What will happen if, as a result of the rise in oil prices, Europe begins to develop a very high rate of demand for steaming coal and what was previously non-profitable becomes a very profitable exercise? Will the Government then make another determination and then another position at which a levy or a duty will be put upon the industry? That will happen. Once we get into this area there will be multiple points at which differences will have to be determined. I believe that that is an absurdity. It is also incorrect to look at the coal industry and to say: 'Some mining operations are very profitable and so we want to look at the profits themselves. As they are so profitable we can ignore the feed back and the ripple effects of that industry upon a whole community.' Let me give the Government the benefit of a study that was made of the coal industry in Queensland in 1973. Much more is affected in terms of living standards than people who live in a number of small towns such as Moranbah, 
Goonyella. Blackwater and Dysart. There are thousands and thousands of people working in the capital city who are dependent upon the ripple effects of that industry. The multiplier effect in terms of population support for those who are engaged in the Bowen Basin open cut mining industry in Queensland in 1972 was 18 to 20. That is an enormous multiplier effect and it is quite apart from contributions to exports or anything of that nature. After all, those contributions to exports indirectly enable tariff shelter to be given to industries in other parts of Australia whilst at the same time trying to increase standards of living. 
It is those transfer effects which come from a very profitable and very efficient export mining industry that have been ignored. They ultimately help tariff and quota protected industries. They also have a far greater effect on living conditions throughout a whole region, a whole State or a capital city than was previously thought to be the case. Let me give a figure which illustrates the point. In 1972 3 Bowen Basin Coal mines which had a work force of significantly below 4000, together had a population support in the whole State at that time of over 60 000 people. That is on a very conservative assumption. It is one of the factors which has released many people in these far flung areas. The same thing applies in Western Australia in respect of iron ore. The effect of the iron ore industry on Perth is far greater than most analysts have determined before. However, that is not to be put aside. 
I make this suggestion with respect to the future and I hope that it will be adopted by the Parliament: The expansion and the further development of the coal mining industry has to be looked at, and I suggest that, if that industry is not to remain static, a tax holiday should be declared upon significant future developments or expansion in that industry to apply until such time as the original investment is written off. By that means all those economic effects to which I have referred will not necessarily be put at nought and will not necessarily be nullified. The tax holiday ought to be policed carefully and precisely. The extraction of the mineral which would apply during those circumstances ought to be looked at far more carefully than, for example, was the case at Kieta in the first year of the Bougainville operations there. In other words, they should not be able to grab the high grade lodes of the mineral which would give them a bigger return during the period of the tax holiday. That is a suggestion for the future and I am grateful to the Committee for having allowed me to express one or two views for 3 minutes longer than I intended. 
Requested amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question which is addressed to the Prime Minister concerns the tradition of Labor governments on Budget leaks. Is the Prime Minister aware that a former Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Dr Dalton,  was required to resign for a much less serious gaffe than that which occurred this year and that was an offhand remark? Does he realise that that action has been defended by every subsequent British Labour Prime Minister? I ask the Prime Minister: As a latter day supporter of the position of the House of Commons in financial matters, will he confer with the present British Prime Minister to see what the Westminster tradition requires and what it dictates in such circumstances? 
-This Bill is one of the least exciting pieces of legislation that comes before the Parliament; nevertheless it is a very important one. The legislation which is before the House now began 5 years ago in June 1970. It began as a result of a deliberate series of actions undertaken by the Commonwealth Government at the Premiers Conference in June 1970, 2 features of which are touched upon in this Bill. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean),  when introducing this Bill, had this to say: 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of capital grants to the States in 1975-76 totalling $430,333,000. This amount represents the grant component of the State governments' Loan Council programs for 1 975-76 and is equal to one-third of the total program- 
The amount of money does not arouse much interest, but the circumstances under which this program was found necessary 5 years ago deserve to be recapitulated even if for only one or two minutes. Owing to the way in which the loan programs are organised between the Commonwealth and the States, and owing to the way in which the capital assistance of the loan programs is organised between the Commonwealth and the States, there have been quite wild and great fluctuations in the debt positions of the Commonwealth and the States from 1927 to the present time. The net result was that the Commonwealth was able to write off its debt and to get into an effective net surplus in the early 1960s while the States were getting into further debt. It was as a result of that position- it would have been interrupted by the war- that in June 1970 2 programs were set in action. One of them, the States grants capital assistance program, is dealt with specifically in this Bill and the other was a program to write off over a period of 5 years $ 1,000m of States' debt, the Commonwealth taking responsibility and liability for that debt. That was the position. 
We also know that during the late 1960s many a State Premier mounted his steed and made a very vigorous political case within his own domain as to the intolerable and insufferable burden of debt which the State was bearing and the impact of the debt upon its finances. During those years it became a reason and an excuse for States not to undertake certain works. It became a standard explanation by a State when it was being attacked by various Oppositions. All States did it, all State Premiers did it and all State Treasurers did it. Of course that was part of the political program. I refer in that context to the speech of the Acting Treasurer, the honourable Frank Crean. He said: 
These grants represent a continuation of arrangements initiated in June 1970 under which the Australian Government provides a proportion of the State governments' Loan Council program in the form of interest-free grants in lieu of what would otherwise be borrowings by the States. Savings to the States in debt charges resulting from these capital grants are substantial. 
As that is now equivalent to well over $400m and represents a third of the total Loan Council borrowing programs, those savings are indeed very substantial. 
That brings me to the first point which I should like to make in relation to this measure. This year it could be calculated that the savings to the States as a result of this measure are equivalent to approximately $80m worth of relief in debt charges. The question that has to be answered- it has never been answered up to the present- is the equity of the distribution of the relief in debt charges among the States. That will have to be dealt with as the amount of relief given under this program increases. Some States have always had proportionately a very large borrowing program from the Loan Council; others have not. The reason for that is simply the history of the matter. They have been tied, to parody another phrase, to the chariot wheels of history in terms of their Loan Council allocation programs. As the amount of relief and of debt assistance increases, so the allocation of the effect of those grants among the States deserves to be taken into account. At the moment that is not taken into account. 
I produce evidence to indicate that the Grants Commission, a most expert body in this area, has rather sidestepped the problem and has relied, in its own words, on principles of broad judgments. The first point I want to make on that matter is simply that the program is welcomed. It was a reflection of what occurred during the 1960s. It gave real relief to the States but the comparative effect as between the States remains uncharted. I turn now to the amount of assistance being given under this program. In the speech of the then Acting Treasurer there is a misnomer and I believe we were misled. The Acting Treasurer, looking at the total Loan Council program which had been increased significantly above the previous year, had this to say: 
The figure of 20 per cent represented the Australian Government's best, albeit very approximate, estimate of possible cost increases in the capital works field in 1975-76. 
In other words, the intention was to maintain the programs at roughly the same 'real ' level as in the previous year. 
That is unexceptional enough. If one looks at the rate of increase of inflation on fixed capital expenditure and public capital expenditure and at the real increases in inflation in the national accounts, one sees that that real rate of inflation over the year to June was of the order of 20 per cent. So what was done in this growing country, a country with increasing demands on public capital works programs which have to be kept up for us even to remain in the same position, was that an amount was made available under this total program only to keep pace with what would be the rate of inflation of public fixed capital expenditure. That means quite simply that there has been a real decrease in the funds available to States under this program. It should not be represented as meaning that the same amount of funds per capita, per person or per unit of work required is available. Less was available, given the increase in Australia during the actual year. 
The program which is before us does not represent a matter of keeping pace; it represents the fact that we have slipped behind. This program, quite legitimately but nonetheless as a fact, is part of the austerity program which the Government is imposing on some sections of the Australian community. It deserves to be recognised as being a fact. The real rate of inflation is all that it keeps pace with, not with the rate of increase of demand given that the demand for works in Australia at the moment is still increasing. 
If there is another criticism that deserves to be directed to this program- it needs to be a fairly muted criticism- it is simply that because of the domestically caused economic mess into which the country has been led the austerity is being put in terms of public fixed capital expenditure which ought not to have been necessary and which ought not to be required. 
My first 2 points I believe are the most significant that need to be looked at in respect of this legislation. I adverted during my earlier remarks to the fact that the relief between the States and the relief among the States needs to be taken into account as the amount of capital assistance increases. I would suggest that this is an area into which the Government must turn its attention because the way in which that relief among the States is presently calculated is quite unsatisfactory. I turn to the Grants Commission report for 1974- the forty-first report- which deals with debt charges between the States. I refer in part to paragraphs 4.172 and 4.173. The first paragraph reads in part: 
In the absence of such overall comparisons of effort in the recovery of debt charges, comparisons might be appropriate in particular fields where relative effort can be assessed. This raises the problem of how to compare the budgetary impact of the treatment of depreciation, replacement and the maintenance of the assets of State business undertakings. The Commission has been trying to find a satisfactory basis for assessing the impact of railway depreciation- 
In the subsequent paragraph the Grants Commission said: 
Where the reduction in loan expenditure is considered to relate to assets for which there would be a partial recovery of debt charges, the exclusion will be on a proportionate basis. 
I believe the last sentence gives the clue to the situation. It reads: 
However, the Commission will use broad judgment in deciding the extent to which the different policies and practices of the States have led to different levels of unrecouped debt charges. 
Repeated in the Grants Commission report of 1975 is an acknowledgement of the same kind of difficulty in terms of the debt charge position as between States. I refer to paragraph 4. 1 68 which deals with a general description of the general approach on debt charges. It states: 
The Australian Treasury, in its submission at the Canberra Hearings in April 1973, stated that it was unable to add to its previous submissions on this matter. The Commission has summarised and discussed these submissions in previous Reports. 
Previously it indicated that it was going to continue to rely on the general judgments which have been made previously. I believe that we are coming to a time when the general judgment which the Commission has indicated, and which has involved a comparison of all the States, needs to be made more specific. It needs to be made more specific because of the amount of assistance which has been given under the program. As I indicated previously, the amount of assistance would be over $430m. With regard to the amount of relief of State debt which is appropriate to that assistance, one could make all kinds of calculations. It certainly would be in the vicinity of $70m, $80m or $90m. The break-up of that assistance among and between the Australian States remains an unchartered sea. I believe it ought to be referred to. There is good evidence for referring to it. It is one of the growing and very important areas of Australian Government finance. I refer to a very excellent and very short paper which was read at a meeting of the Fifth Conference of Economists at the University of Queensland in August this year. It was a very excellent paper by a  Mr McCauley,  an excellent gentleman whom I know. He makes it quite clear in his calculation as to the net debt position of the Commonwealth and the States that the data is quite imprecise and a lot more work needs to be done. I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  who is in the chamber, will take this on board and ask some of those people who gather round him and who are able to advise him to see what further work can be done to make the calculations more precise. The comments of  Mr McCauley  sum up the reasons why this matter is important, even though this is not a particularly interesting or exciting debate. To sum up the usefulness of public debt sector net debt statistics  Mr McCauley  gives 4 reasons. Firstly, they seem indispensable to an adequate understanding of the net outcome of the finances and the functions of the public sector. Secondly, they seem fundamental to an adequate knowledge about Federal-State financial relationships and to any basic or continuing adjustments to arrangements stemming from the 1927 Financial Agreement. Thirdly, they help to elucidate economic management and the implications for fiscal and monetary policies. Fourthly, they serve as a useful indicator of the annual improvement or the worsening in the finances of the various levels of public authorities. The difficulty of the task should not indicate that it deserves to be ignored. 
In relation to that, I should like to make one further comment. There is evidence that while the public debt position of the Commonwealth has improved, and continues to improve, and while the position of the States has improved, the gap between the two over the last couple of years has increased significantly. In 1970 the gap between the two was over $ 1,300m. The gap between the two now is only $ 1 ,800m It is growing; everything is growing. But I wonder whether this gap deserves to grow in the way in which it is. I take solace in looking at the matter of CommonwealthState relations in this way- and bear in mind that they are the kinds of relationships that have bedevilled every government since Federation. Some need to bear more blame than others. Some have been more sympathetic than others. 
I quote the words of Australia 's first Commonwealth Treasurer in his first Budget Speech. He was well aware of the difficulties involved in Commonwealth-State relations. He felt at the time that the States were hanging over him like the sword of Damocles. It is worth recording his statement and his sentiment. He said: 
While we should spend all that is reasonably necessary for the purpose of defending and developing our country, we must see, at all events in the early stages of our career, that there is no extravagance, because the money we spend is money which comes from the States - 
And this should please every States righter:  . . . and if we do anything which may put them into a difficult position they will feel inclined to curse rather than to bless Federation. 
I only wish him well and that he was not living three-quarters of a century later. There is one other point which I would like to bring forward, and I believe it can be brought forward. It is impossible to discuss the net debt position without looking at the total securities on issue and the total problems of the Commonwealth in terms of the difficulty it has financing its own loans. This country is getting into quite a unique position at present and one of which the people of the country deserve to be made aware. I turn to the document  Government Securities on Issue  which comes with the Budget Papers at the presentation of each Budget. This document indicates the Government securities on issue at 30 June of each year. If one looks to this document this year and compares it with similar documents in previous years, one comes to this quite inescapable position: Australia has itself, I believe, into a short term 2 year recycling monetary problem because at present there are more securities redeemable in Australian currency which come to maturity in the next 2 years than ever before in the history of this nation. More than $3 ,000m of securities will come to maturity within less than 20 months of this date. That represents approximately 28 per cent or 29 per cent of all the securities on issue. That situation immediately raises a number of problems. 
The first problem is this: The Commonwealth has got itself into a short term monetary recycling problem. It is trying to finance long term programs, for which the securities are supposed to be the basis, with short term subscriptions. This has never occurred to that extent before. It was never a problem that worried the Scullin Government to the extent to which it now must worry this Government. In the second place, it means that, if the people of this country decided that they wanted to cash their securities, did not wish to convert them, and in fact suddenly wanted to invest them in commendable and worthwhile private enterprise projects, we would be faced with the worst position of all because this action would immediately add more than $3,000m worth of value to the money supply within Australia. 
Without going into all these other terms used-I refer to 'Ml', 'M2' and 'M3', which always seems to me a bit like MI5- whichever one we talk about, this fact means that there is a great risk of a very great increase in the money supply if people decide not to convert their securities. In that sense the loan which is now before the Australian people I believe it may have closed yesterday and the loans which will be before the Australian people within the next number of month represent as big a problem here as did the famous loan which was negotiated during the height of the Depression and which involved the proposition whether repudiation would be a fact of Australian life. So there is a short term monetary recycling problem and the Government has got itself into a situation in which it needs to finance long term projects with short term finance, and that is never a good position for a government to be in. It certainly represents a clear, explicit and a very obvious threat to stability in the increase of money supply. I am not one of those who believe that changes in the money supply determines everything that goes on in the country. There are people who seem to think that the management of the economy can be organised through monetary arrangements rather like putting an automatic carburettor on the Reserve Bank and running away to let the automatic carburettor look after the rate of increase in the money supply. That is far too simple a proposition and rather a meaningless one; nevertheless the size of the problem and the growth of the size of the problem, as indicated by the securities on issue most of which have been issued on behalf of the States, cannot be ignored, I believe, and the Government, I hope, has this in mind. 
So I make 3 propositions which could be looked at and which deserve to be looked at. The first is the nature of the debt assistance programs to the States and the way in which debt has been written off under these programs which come to finality this year. I believe that the Government ought to look at redeveloping a debt assistance program for subsequent years. The second point is that the growth in the difference between the Commonwealth and the State debt is increasing and while the States are not in the position that they were in in the late 1 960s in this respect it will continue to increase. I believe that the Government needs to take into account the differential effects as between States, the relief given to the States through capital grants assistance in terms of debt negotiation through the Loan Council on account of securities issued on behalf of the States. The third point follows upon the nature of the Commonwealth debt at the present time. Some way has to be found to persuade people to invest in long term securities rather than in short term securities; otherwise there is a threat to the money supply. This is running not a milk bar kind of economy, but an ersatz coffee kind of economy; that is, it looks strong, it appears strong but it has a hangover due to come on within 1 8 months to 2 years. 
I put this proposition to the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden):  In order to persuade people to invest in longer term securities the Treasurer might consider the indexing of Commonwealth securities and bonds. That means indexing them beyond a 5year period. The last loan had all its contributions within the short term end. There were none within the long term end. There are examples of areas in which indexing Commonwealth bonds would be successful. Programs are currently being undertaken in the United Kingdom concerning securities which are available to aged people and which are indexed to take account of inflation. That needs to be done in Australia, because if there is one economic problem which is related to this measure and which is probably the most pervasive it is simply that there is insufficient confidence on the part of the people to undertake long term investment. You cannot recycle short term investment without running grave risks and there is a need to undertake long term investment knowing what are our real rates of inflation not the last consumer price index which is not an inflation index and which certainly understates the rate of inflation quite seriously and that type of investment needs to be encouraged and needs to be encouraged quite quickly. 
In terms, of the general sentiments of the legislation, one agrees with them. One applauds the Government for the fact that it has increased the amount of capital assistance available, but above all I just want to make this one final point I do not believe it should misrepresent the position by indication that the amount of assistance in fact keeps pace with the demands for public fixed capital expenditure. It only keeps pace with what are the national accounts, the real rates of inflation. It does nothing more. This legislation is to that extent the victim of the domestic economic crisis which is occurring in Australia, no part of which has effectively been imported. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Jenkins)  adjourned. 
-This is a very sad measure because the Government has decreased in a significant way the amount of funds which it will provide for welfare housing. Forget all the argumentation that has been put forward and the argumentation as to amounts of money. Let it be quite clear: The amount of real assistance to housing and to the area of welfare housing, which is only part of the market, has been decreased by an effective  20  per cent. So what has happened is that after the riot of extravagance for a year or two has come the pinch of want. That pinch has been applied with respect to housing and the places in which Australian families and households live and develop. That proposition and that fact are contrary to the whole Australian tradition. The fact that it has occurred ought to be recorded and recorded rather sadly. Nowhere is it made clearer than in the publication that came out earlier today in relation to building approvals for Australia up to September this year. Even in the field of government housing approvals over the last  2  months, for August and September of this year, have been something like  40  per cent to  50  per cent below what they were for the same  2  months of last year. 
While there may be argumentation by the Government that it has in fact kept up the level of assistance in welfare housing to States, the States obviously do not feel free enough to be able to keep up the level of approvals at which houses will be commenced and at which houses will be completed as in the previous year. The cut that has occurred could not occur only in one State; it has occurred over the lot because the magnitude of the decline is too great. In August and September last year more than  2600  approvals were given for government dwellings. In August and September this year the figure is  1560.  That is a significant decline and it has to be explained. One feels rather sad that the explanation for it lies in some words which the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  uttered. He had not been in his position very long but the words tumbled out. All the State Housing Ministers know that a promise which was made to them has not been kept. I shall read the Minister's words. They are very important. They are convoluted. He was a new Minister. He did not know the consequences of what was being said. I shall read the one long sentence. He said: 
The funds that will now be available to Queensland and Western Australia are clearly advanced on the basis that they will be considered in the light of next year's commitments in the same way as funds that have been made available to the other States will have to be considered next year in the light of what has been achieved and what has been made available in the last year. 
That simply means that a promise made in one year was to be kept in respect of the next year. What has occurred is that the promise has not been kept. It is as simple as that. 
-I am just going on the words which have been uttered. The words came out and they had no meaning. But of course it was quite legitimate that the Minister should use those words because previously during the Queensland State election campaign- the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  campaigned there strongly but he did not do very well- the Prime Minister made some comments and the Minister supported him in his statement 6 months later. The Prime Minister said that his Government would pay for every Housing Commission house for which the Queensland Government could let a contract. That is a proposition made with respect to one State which has had a real and significant cut in its allocation of funds. There were 2 statements, the statement of the Prime Minister when the Minister for Housing and Construction was a backbencher and the statement of the Minister made 6 months later. There is no retreating from the words even though $360m is being made available in money terms for this purpose this year. The rate of inflation with respect to capital dwelling expenditure calculated from the national accounts is of the order of 20 per cent up to June. If one deflates that figure of $360m one will see that what has been given is $290m in 1974-75 dollars, not $364m or anything like it. So there has been a real and a calculated drop in welfare housing. 
The approvals which have been given - 
The Minister wants to interrupt, does he? 
-When I was Minister for Housing the waiting list was small and the whole housing market was infinitely better. We appreciated and knew that one cannot insulate a housing market from the rest of the economy. If one makes an economic mess- a fiscal mess, a monetary mess- housing is such a great sector of the economy that one cannot insulate the totality of it from what is happening elsewhere in the community. We are not going to have - 
-I have not shifted my ground at all. What must be realised is that we cannot have a well housed and a contented people who are significantly unemployed. We cannot have a well housed and a contented people when the value of the take-home pay and of the dollars that go into each household has decreased. The value of take-home pay decreases even under wage indexation. So they all hang together and they go together. 
A very good piece of advice was given in the Priorities Review Staff report on housing. I know that the Minister for Housing and Construction and the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  have criticised the report, as they deserve to in many respects, but there are some very significant and good parts of that report. 
-There are some very good parts of that report. A comment on page 55 is worth bearing in mind. It states in reference to housing: 
Funds are too fluid for there to be any mileage in substantial attempts to insulate housing from the rest of the economy. Such smoothing as is possible can be effected under existing powers via consultation, guidance, lending etc between authorities and financial institutions. 
A sentence on the previous page is full of meaning. Speaking of financial institutions lending for housing it states: 
Stability here would bring a much greater measure of stability to the housing industry. 
It all hangs together. We cannot hope to insulate one part of it from another. If the private sector goes down there is a greater demand in the public sector. If the private sector retreats because of a monetary and financial mess the capacity to take up the slack in the public sector retreats. So it is impossible to insulate one from the other. 
This is the kind of thinking that has bedevilled and led the Government- and regrettably split the Labor Party- to such a continued series of errors in respect of housing. Three or four years ago the Labor Party had scheme after scheme with respect to housing. Let me go through some of them. Twelve months before the 1972 election it had the celebrated scheme for a 2 per cent reduction in interest rates. Money was going to be made available from all kinds of financial institutions at 2 per cent less than the going rate. Of course it had a dreadful set of circumstances then. The long term bond rate was 6% per cent. That scheme failed and it was dropped because it was found that it just would not work. In fact, were it to have been put into operation it would have forced up the cost of money and the cost of interest rates more than otherwise would have been the case. That scheme was dropped. 
There was another scheme whereby money was going to be made available from savings banks, particularly the Commonwealth Savings Bank. A rate of 3% per cent was mentioned. That scheme was dropped because it was a failure. Then the Financial Corporations Bill was passed in this House last year. Part of the propaganda with respect to it said: 'Give us the power over all financial institutions, give us power over banks, give us power over financial corporations, give us power over building societies in the States, give us power over all the non-bank financial institutions and we will bring interest rates down'. That is one of the statements that was made continually. 
-A multitude of your Ministers. They said: 'Give us this power and we will bring the cost of money down. We will make it available for you'. Of course the cost has not come down to a significant extent and it is not going to remain down, because the Government has forgotten that if it interferes in this area something will break out elsewhere. That is essentially the error that has been made by the Government continually in the housing field. It always has a nice scheme but never one that works. The mortgage insurance scheme was one which was promoted by a newspaper proprietor who now does not find very much satisfaction with the Labor Party. It was always a mess because it was unfair to people. The Government, having introduced this as a principal policy in 1972, having repromoted it in 1974, is now leaving the limits at levels that are becoming quite inadequate and meaningless, compared with real wages and the cost of housing. That scheme, put up by a party bent on welfare, was designed to assist those who built the most expensive houses, who saved the least and who negotiated the highest interest rates on money. It failed. 
We see that over the years there has been a basic lack of understanding of what is involved in housing. An unalterable social obligation was taken on when a new era of housing was undertaken in Australia. It was held to be undertaken, quite honestly enough, by a Labor government. It was undertaken in the years towards the end and just after the end of World War II. The unalterable social obligation was that homes for people to own would be available to those who wanted to own them and homes for people to rent would be available to those who wanted to rent them. That obligation undertaken in 1945, like the obligation to secure full employment in Australia also undertaken in 1945, has been put aside. They have both been callously disregarded by the Government. 
The tragedy is that thousands and thousands of Australians are hurt. The tragedy is that thousands of young people recently married or contemplating marriage or hoping to form a family and set up a family are disadvantaged. Unless housing is adequately cared for and there is an understanding of the processes whereby it can be cared for, these people are hurt. If there is any area of social obligation which is as sensitive as any other, I believe it is the field of housing. You have an independently minded people and a people willing to make their own decisions only if they live in a substantially home owning Australian community. The two go together. Like the undertaking concerning full employment, the obligation concerning housing has been swept aside. It has been forgotten. It is nonsense for any government to talk about welfare and say that it is a welfare government when these 2 very basic social obligations have been forgotten. 
I know there are socialists in this world. Some are great reformists; some are complete socialists. One of the less creditable socialists, a theorist, was Proudhon. One can only feel that the Government is a little bit like Proudhon, whose attitude was that socialism means that property is theft. It seems to me that the Government is carrying that dictum into housing and what households should mean and what they are in Australia. 
There has been a continual list of failures. I put one proposition to the Government Parts of the Priorities Review Staff report are excellent. Parts of that report make it quite clear that substantially it is a flow of funds that is important in terms of housing, and one of the most important areas which is responsible for the flow of funds involves the savings banks. The Commonwealth Savings Bank is the most dominant bank in this field. I put something to the Government which I have not been able to understand since July 1973 when a list of severe monetary policy measures was put into operation by the Government. The Commonwealth Savings Bank, compared with other savings banks, has consistently held less of its assets in housing than have either the private savings banks or the State Savings Bank of Victoria. What has happened unfortunately is that the Commonwealth Housing Bank has allowed itself to become an instrument for the maintenance of the monetary policy of the Government. It has been engaged in security buying and selling and has been concerned with the loan market, inscribed stock and so on. 
The Commonwealth Savings Bank ought not to be an arm of the monetary management of this country, as other banks are. It was set up with a different charter and for a different purpose. I shall give 3 sets of figures because they are quite important. At August this year the Commonwealth Savings Bank had 33.4 per cent of its assets in housing. All the other private savings banks had an average of 38.5 per cent of their assets in housing. The State Savings Bank of Victoria had just on 35 per cent of its assets in housing. So continually one feels that the Commonwealth Savings Bank is misconstruing the purposes for which it was instituted and is doing so especially in respect of this field of endeavour. 
I shall make a final point which should influence the Minister. If one looks at the administration of housing policy by States, those States in which the Commonwealth Savings Bank dominates the savings bank field are obviously the most susceptible. The 2 States in which the Commonwealth Savings Bank dominates the savings bank field are New South Wales and Queensland. In each of those States the Commonwealth Savings Bank has either a little under or a little over half of the total market. It can operate as an effective oligopolist. I ask the Minister to investigate the administration of the Commonwealth Savings Bank policy in respect of housing Australia wide and to explain what has happened since July 1973. We should remember that that Bank is vitally concerned with housing and was set up as the people's bank. Those who would normally obtain their housing finance from that Bank ought not to be the victims of its administration of monetary policy. 
There is a warning in the Priorities Review Staff report about this administration of monetary policy. People who desire housing and who want to form homes and families ought not to be made the first and the most lasting victims of monetary policy. I know the Minister will be sympathetic to that matter. I know that the Minister desires to do all he can in this field. We know that he made one or two mistakes in June this year. A promise tumbled out from a new Minister who was entranced with the position that he held. But we forget that. We ask him to look at this field to see what he can do concerning the flow of funds between institutions concerned with housing in Australia and certainly to remember above all that we will not fix up the housing problem totally unless we fix up a distressed, alien and very severely disadvantaged economy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. It concerns the application to hold the Commonwealth Games in Brisbane in 1982. To assist that application and the travel obligations that would be part of a successful application, will the Minister undertake to have the new runway at Brisbane airport operational by the time of the Games? To put the question in another way, when economic conditions return to equilibrium and government expenditure patterns become more normal, will the Minister undertake to have the development at that airport, which has been promised for so many years, and the upgrading of the runway given absolutely the highest priority so far as he, the Government and his Department are concerned? 
I want to say only one or two words on this motion. I support the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  very firmly in respect of the proposition he moved. However, I suggest that there are one or two tasks that the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Trust might consider during its deliberations over the next 3 years or over the years while this Parliament is sitting. There is a simple fact of life concerning the trust and the position of members of Parliament and it is that those who are out of sight are often out of mind. The people to whom the activities of the trust apply are no longer in this place. They have retired voluntarily or have been defeated. I hope that the trust will consider their position and compare it with that of former members of other parliaments in Australia. There is one inescapable fact that simple observation brings to light on looking at the members of this Parliament over a number of years and that is that there is a greater turnover of members of Parliament in this House than occurs in any other house of Parliament in Australia, certainly any other lower house of Parliament in Australia. I hope therefore that the trust considers some of the problems of rehabilitation that members of Parliament must undergo after retirement or defeat for reelection to this place. 

 -Mr Speaker, if I may be quite plain, forthright and direct I should like to congratulate you on your appointment to the office which you have now attained. We hope that you will fulfil the functions of that office as efficiently as you have done since the day that you were appointed. We are certain that you will and we are also quite certain that you will retain your position in that office for as long as you may desire. Of course that in no way foreshadows your own future, wherever it may happen to lead you. 
I am delighted to be able to speak on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. But before I say the few words which need to be said, as an honourable member who has been here for a number of years I must say that one cannot help but be impressed and rather daunted and overcome with the quality of the speeches and the contributions that have been made by the new members of this House. I do not think that I have ever heard contributions made by new members in this place of as high a quality as we have heard and witnessed over recent days. They must give great cause for satisfaction to the Government and they must also give great cause for concern and despair to what has quite clearly become a shattered Opposition- a remnant of itself. 
As I look around and see honourable members on the Government side representing electorates that have never been represented by us since 
Federation or since the electorates were formed, I can only reflect on the causes of the shattering events of 13 December. In fact on that day the Opposition was defeated for a number of reasons upon which I will not pass judgment. I shall merely quote from what one of the former Government's friends had to say about it. The friends of the previous Government, the leadership of the Australian Metalworkers Union, contributed this gem towards the end of January this year on the Government that was. Perhaps it explains why the divisions this afternoon in this House had more than 80 honourable members on one side of the chamber and about 34 or 35 honourable members voting for the Opposition. The Amalgamated Metalworkers Union leadership stated: 
When the Governor-General sacked the Prime Minister and the Government on November 1 1 , the public saw this as a relief of their fears and confirmation that the Government was something from grossly inefficient to crook. 
That is a simple Australian term and it is obvious that for deep philosophical and for social reasons as well as for profoundly felt economic reasons the electorate felt that there was no distinction to be made between being grossly inefficient and crook. So the electorate made its decision and it returned people to this side of the chamber. Why did it occur in another sense? I merely want to concentrate on some of the economic reasons, the ones that have been felt by the community. To be truthful, the previous Government was caught, at the time of an election, in an economic trough. Whether the previous Government was going down further into the trough or whether it was coming out of it, it was caught in the trough. It was defeated at that election because the principal weapon which governments have in this country was lost- the power of timing. It was the power of timing which saved Liberal-Country Party governments over the previous 23 years when they were in power. The Labor Government lost that weapon. That, above all, is the reason for the electorate making the judgment that it made. 
What are some of the more personal reasons? I do not intend to pursue a discussion on the Constitution or a discussion as to the rights of governments or lower houses under the Constitution; I intend to deal with what I believe is the one overriding, pervasive requirement imposed on governments in this place. That requirement is the obligation- I believe the electorate and the Australian people in general feel this way also -on governments, when elected, to maintain full employment. That above all, is the reason for the people making their decision at the last election. 
They may have had a variety of other reasons, but that poisoned the well. As to why they felt so deeply as to the loss of the obligation to have full employment, I shall read 2 sentences from the obligation which governments undertook over 30 years ago in this place- to maintain conditions whereby the Australian people could have work and could have jobs if they decided to want work and decided to want a job. 
I refer, as I have done previously, to the White Paper on full employment. It sets out the economic and, above all, the social obligation which governments have undertaken freely in Australia since 30 May 1945. This document sets forth boldly and unequivocally the Government's intention to secure full employment for the people of Australia. It outlines the method by which the Government proposes to achieve this aim. There is no allowance for excuse, there is no allowance for the proposition that unemployment will be brought in by Arabs or Iraqis or anyone from overseas. The obligation is taken domestically within Australia by those who have charge of economic affairs in Australia, to maintain full employment. Full employment had not been maintained. The words which were enunciated on those occasions by a Labor Government were said very confidently and they were true. In introducing this paper, the Minister said: 
I believe that this White Paper constitutes a charter for a new social order . . . The world is well on the way to the acceptance of this profound truth, that the welfare of all the people in all lands depends primarily on full employment. 
That charter for a new social order represented a contract. That contract had been broken and it was in the light of the breaking of that contract that the people made the decision they did. Stripped of all the constitutional requirements, stripped of all the clever terminology that lawyers produce- I say that as I look at the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)-  that is the way that millions of Australians understood the situation. It is with a degree of sadness that one has to reflect upon that fact. 
I produce just one figure to illustrate the circumstances in which the election was held. I refer to the obligation of full employment during the term of the previous Government and in the month immediately after the election. I return to what happened in January when we still lived in the shadow of what occurred under nearly 3 years of the previous Government. In January 284 000 people were out of work. That is just a figure I know, but it is more important for another reason. Of those people out of work in January, over 80 per cent- eight out of ten- were in a state of such prolonged unemployment that they had to receive the dole. That is the highest proportion ever measured of people who have been out of work or who have had to receive the dole. It is the highest proportion since this kind of information came to hand. So the people of Australia made their judgment. They made it because they felt the Government was crook. But above all they made the judgment because they felt that there was that obligation to provide jobs for Australians who wanted to work, who were willing to work, who were not psychologically unprepared to work and who wanted to have the independence of people able to support themselves. So on this occasion- it may be rare- I happen to agree with the leadership of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. 
But there is another way in which this matter should be considered and it touches the very basis of society itself. Why should one concentrate on this matter of full employment? Does it really matter much? Perhaps it is not sufficiently appreciated that the great work on full employment in our kind of society was written during World War II. The honourable member who will follow me in this debate will know this so very well. Lord Beveridge's work on full employment was entitled  Full Employment in a Free Society.  What comes out over and over again in that proposition as it was to be applied to the United Kingdom and as it has been subsequently applied to Australia, is that it is impossible to have full employment with freedom in a society unless there is a confidently expanding private enterprise sector. Those two propositions come face to face- the requirement of full employment and the requirement of private enterprise to enable freedom to be exercised in the attainment of full employment. 
I divert for one moment to explain that proposition. There are countries which have full employment. There are countries behind the Iron Curtain which boast proudly that they do not have unemployment like Western societies. They boast that they have full employment for their people. There is a degree of conscription of labour. This happens in all such nations and because of their nature they attain that position. But the characteristic which we have for Australia, and which was the background of the 1945 promise, was that full employment could exist only in a confidently expanding private enterprise economy. It was because those conditions did not exist that there was a greater imposition of government upon the community, and the basic social conditions for the upholding of the basic social contract which Australians know and which they want to attain were not being attained. Let me take this issue a little further. It is all right to talk about these matters theoretically and it may impress some people to talk about them theoretically - 
-Of course the honourable member for Melbourne would not be impressed. Since he has been associated with the Victorian Labor Party it has been responsible not only for causing trouble in his own organisation, but also for returning a consistent minority of his own people to this Parliament. 
-I will give you some policy. 
-If the honourable member remains in Opposition over the years he will be able to enjoy what we will be doing. It is full employment in a free society that is appropriate. It is full employment in a free society that ought to be attained. But there cannot be a free society unless, in the words of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  'households are able basically to make their own decisions'. It is the power of the purse as well as the economic power which can prevent Australian households making those decisions. If we look at households and the way by which governments have impressed in a quite remarkable way their own impression upon the activity of households, we see that the power of the purse has been used to deprive those basic units of our society of their own freedom. Let me propose one or two more figures because they are important. Let us go back to the days of Chifley. Of every $ 1 that was earned and went into an Australian household in the days after World War II- they were difficult days- there was surrendered by way of payments to public authorities in one form or another, such as taxation, both direct and indirect; fees; fines and so on, between 26c and 28c. That position persisted over the years until the advent of the previous Labor Government. This is why people felt that they wanted tax indexation. 
-In the last days of the previous Government, not 26c or 28c was being surrendered from each household dollar but just on 35c was being surrendered to the Government. So the weight of the public purse, the weight of the finance that had to be surrendered from each earned dollar to government in one form or another caused the Australian people to say: 'No, we are not going to persist in this kind of situation'. The other side of that equation is significant. It was said that those cents were taken out of the dollar and money was given back to the people in the form of pensions, payments, repatriation, family allowances and so on so that they could spend it. Nothing of the kind. Over 25 years ago between 6c and 6 1/2c were given back to people to spend as they desired. In the last days of the previous Government only 7!c were given back. Here we have a double shuffle. An extra 9c were taken out of each earned household dollar- the 9c were not taken out only by the previous Government, by the way- and only l!c were given back. Without making those kinds of calculations and that precise kind of determination people felt that that was no good, that that was inefficient, that that was crook, and feeling those things they said: 'No'. 
We say that the principal requirements of this Government that has just been elected are twofold. The first requirement is to return to the basic promise made over 30 years ago, and to remember that in keeping that promise it is not just full employment that is required; it is full employment in a society which is able to determine its own affairs, and full employment for housholds which are able, to the maximum extent possible, to determine their own affairs. That is what we are talking about and that is why during the last election we came, in a social sense, to a turning point in Australian life. Two different philosophies were interposed, juxtaposed, and the Australian electorate was asked to examine both of them. 
It is obvious that the Labor Government was following the philosophy of its Prime Minister so it took those resources and returned such a small proportion of what it took from each person. That is why propositions such as tax indexation are so important, and that is why I regard propositions such as wage indexation as so important, but that view may not be held so universally. I read just one sentence from a speech by the former Prime Minister to exemplify the kind of society represented by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  for so long as he can speak for it. He had this to say in the Chifley Memorial Lecture: 
The quality of life depends less on the things which individuals obtain for themselves and can purchase for themselves from their personal incomes and depends more on the things which the community provides for all its members from the combined resources of the community. 
There you have a recipe for the substitution of community control for personal control and it is put into a clear philosophical context. In case one thought that was not the real purport of what the former Prime Minister had to say, he also said this: 
In the Australian context, this means that the community, through the national government, must finance them or they will not be financed at all. 
It comes down to a different view of the nature of man in our society, and of the nature of the household in our society. This Government therefore has one overall and abiding task: It is to remember those promises of 30 years ago; it is to recollect that those promises can be sustained only in the kind of society foreshadowed in the White Paper; it is to remember that people want to have, to the maximum extent possible, control of those affairs and that above all, the benefits of a society which has obtained some degree of economic equilibrium, ought to be distributed as far as possible, as widely as possible and with the maximum amount of equity. They are the two different social philosophies involved in Australian life today and they are the principles upon which this Government will stand during the years that it will be here and, I presume,  Mr Speaker,  if I may return to the point at which I began, during the years that you will grace your office. 
-I shall not speak to this measure at great length either. I know that the House will be delighted indeed to learn that. Nevertheless there are one or two points that need to be made, points which became obvious in almost the first words which were enunciated by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who is the shadow Treasurer. During the last election campaign the Labor Government got itself into a bind in being severely anti-State, in having starved the States of funds and so on. Yet the honourable member was able to assert, quite correctly, that this Bill is pre-eminently a product of the previous Government which was in office until 1 3 December. This Bill is not ungenerous to the States, but the Labor Party got itself into such an ideological bind that it was fairly generous in terms of this measure if the States felt that they were aggrieved. That is merely an indication of a very poor sense of policy in getting its story over to the people of Australia. It is a confession of regrettable failure on the part of politicians. They do not understand the business. 
-Oh no, they are always happy with us because they always understand the position. If honourable members look at the back benchers in this place they will see the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife)  and they will know that when he was a State Minister he was always magnificently most generous in praise of all the assistance that the Commonwealth gave his State. There would not be an honourable member here from New South Wales who would not confess to that fact immediately. If I may go into the history of this matter a little bit, it runs from 1927-28 to the end of the 1 960s. It was quite simple. Almost during the totality of that time the debt which accrued to the States and which the States had to meet increased many times while the Commonwealth by various means was able to rid itself of its own debt. So by the end of the 1960s the States got themselves into a quite intolerable situation and the Commonwealth worked free of net debt. I leave out of that the very great difficulties of calculating net debt. So in 1970 under a previous Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference in the middle of the year 2 measures were undertaken. One measure was to make available to the States a certain amount of funds in lieu of loan funds so that the States could undertake public works programs which were not revenue producing programs and another undertaking was given to wipe off, I think, $ 1 ,000m of State debt. 
The proposal in this legislation is part of the first section of the package and involves something like $430m which is being given to the States in this package. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is quite correct and the honourable member for Adelaide is also quite correct in saying that this is generous and in fact will be worth much more in the course of the whole year than it was presumed to be worth at the beginning of the 1975-76 financial year. Nevertheless, it ought to be remembered in accounting for the rates of inflation on public works which this measure has to do that the rates of inflation on public works are always higher than the rates of inflation felt generally in the community. That occurs for a variety of reasons. I can see that you,  Mr Speaker,  are vitally interested in this matter. 
This is the first package involving those 2 proposals which have now existed for 5 years. The second one to meet the net debt of the States will, I understand, be discontinued this year. This package will continue in subsequent years. There is one other matter which I would like to bring up in relation to it. I refer to proposals of equity which occur between the various States and the Commonwealth. I request the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to consider this matter so that he might answer the proposition when he winds up this debate. The funds which are divided between the States under this Bill and in accordance with the terms of the Schedule at the back of the Bill are divided, as I see it, according to the loan programs of the States for which the Commonwealth assumes responsibility. That means of course that that assistance- that bonus which is given to the States as grants and because of the difference in the interest rate on the debt and the rate of inflation in the community will result in a differential rate of assistance as between the various States. I think that becomes obvious immediately. But it also means that it has great significance for any policy of federalism which is designed to secure equity and fairness -as between the different States of the Commonwealth. 
I think that we have a problem here because loan programs and the debt charges on loan programs are matters which have largely been ignored in relations with the States. Because those loan programs of the States are determined very much on an historical basis there is a very great disparity in the loan programs allowed for the States. They are not concerned with financial assistance grants. They are not determined on the basis of the equalisation formula. They are determined very much on the basis of what has happened in the past. Therefore it means that the assistance given to States by way of grants and the assistance given by way of the differential interest rates on them compared with interest rates in the community apply very differently between the States of Australia. As this amount of $430m will increase in the future I want to know- I request the Minister to consider this matter very carefully and give a response- how this is to be determined in looking at horizontal equity between the States of Australia. I think I make the point quite clear. It is quite different from a loan program. It is effectively a grant program. 
To indicate that the matter is not very easy of solution, I turn to the considerations of these matters which have been undertaken by the Grants Commission over the years. This is one of the most expert bodies on domestic economic conditions in Australia. It is unique in its effectiveness to the Australian Federation. Let me refer to the 1974 Grants Commission Report on Special Assistance for States. In its consideration of debt charges the Commission had this to say at page 87: 
This raises the problem of how to compare the budgetary impact of the treatment of depreciation, replacement and maintenance of the assets of State business undertakings. The Commission has been trying to find a satisfactory basis for assessing the impact of railway depreciation on the various State budgets but has not extended its inquiries to other undertakings. 
At the end of that section the Commission said: 
Where the reduction in loan expenditure is considered to relate to assets for which there would be a partial recovery of debt charges, the exclusion will be on a proportionate basis. 
I think that this is the crucial sentence: 
However, the Commission, will use broad judgment in deciding the extent to which the different policies and practices of the States have led to different levels of unrecouped debt charges. 
It is quite clear from the considerations of the Commission in 1974 and from a further consideration of the Commission in 1975 that this problem has not been solved. Due to the magnitude of the funds involved- I presume that it will be approaching $500m this year- there ought to be a quick solution to the problem because these advantages bear very differentially as between the different States and different parts of Australia. I do not want to be parochial but I would mention that Queensland has always done very badly under the loan program. I say that by way of interpolation. In its 1975 report the Commission said: 
The Australian Treasury, in its submission at the Canberra hearings in April 197S, stated that it was unable to add to its previous submissions on this matter. The Commission has summarised and discussed these submissions in previous reports. 
So the problem has not been solved, but the problem is a growing one and I believe it is one that cannot be ignored. It concerns what is concerning many people in many parts of Australia. There has been a magnificent tradition in this country, which will be maintained and which we all hope will be improved, of equity between the people in the various parts of Australia. To ignore this assistance in Loan programs is to ignore something that is growing in quantity and in proportionate significance. It has a very great deal to do with equity between public capital work undertakings in various parts of the Commonwealth. 
I have been asked not to speak for too long, but I want to make one other point which I think has to be made. It is simply this: In respect of the debt charges which will he upon the Commonwealth and for which the Commonwealth ultimately takes responsibility there is one matter that deserves attention again. I have mentioned it previously. Australia's debt problems have increased. The loans which are raised and which help in the matter of meeting the loan programs, the conversions and the maturing of those loans will be a matter of great comment and a matter of great concern to this nation. At the end of last year- it has continued into 1976- the amount of loans maturing in Australia on a short term basis was both absolutely and proportionately the highest in the nation's history. It is a reflection of expectations concerning the rates of inflation over recent years. Australian savings bonds have not altered that situation. Some may say that it has just been a victim of the circumstances of the time and of the negotiation for short term debt as well. 
I hope that when the Commonwealth considers the totality of its debt program and the responsibilities it has for meeting that debt program and a conversion of that debt it will consider what effect the coming to maturity of short term debt can have on the money supply in Australia. The debt which is coming to maturity, and which will come to maturity at favourable interest rates over the next 20 months, is the greatest in the history of the country. It represents a greater problem in terms of the maturing debt than it did for the poor, benighted Scullin Government of the early 1930s. Therefore I hope that the Minister Assisting the Treasurer will bring that matter to the attention of the Treasurer- I know that the Treasurer will take very great notice of what he says- and to the economic committee of Cabinet. 
I return to where I began. The effects of this matter are very great in relation to fairness between the different States of Australia. Those effects will grow. The way in which they will fit into matters of horizontal equity between the various States of Australia cannot be ignored. I hope that, in all fairness, assurances will be given as quickly as possible- perhaps during the debate on this Bill. 
-The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has forgotten one thing. It is quite all right to talk about the minutiae of Government expenditure policies or to talk about precise details as to rates of growth or rates of the contraction in the money supply, but what is sometimes forgotten is that Government spending policies, the rates of the increase in money supply and, insofar as they can be calculated, the rates of change of the velocity of money supply are all designed to serve one purpose and that is to balance an economy so that the benefits of the economy can be distributed as widely as possible. They are all designed to do one other thing also and that is in the process of achieving a position of economic equilibrium- for getting that economic equilibrium- to distribute the burdens as widely as possible. I would regard that as a decent principle of fairness in respect of economic management. 
So in respect of these matters I am not going to argue about a projected rate of increase in money supply but merely say that the Government has said that it hopes that M3- I am always fascinated with these terms, Ml, M2, M3 and the rest- on an annualised basis by the end of June would have had an annual increase over the previous year of something like 1 5 per cent or 1 6 per cent. I hope that that increase can be fitted into the other obligations of the Government because when these Loan Bills are looked at, and when the method of financing the deficit is looked at, it can sometimes be forgotten that the deficit in itself is not of its nature an evil so far as economic effects are concerned. I hope that that view is not taken away from this chamber. It is not an economic evil in itself. A deficit can be a saviour of the economy, but the tragedy that has occurred and the tragedy that is with us is simply that a deficit of something like $4,500m was found to be necessary. In the one sentence it is said that that under-employment and that under-utilisation of economy have been such as to warrant a deficit of that nature. So immediately that is said one is face to face with the problems of financing the deficit, the problems associated with these Loan Bills-Loan Bill 1976 and Loan Bill (No. 2) 1976- and the problems associated with 2 other Bills which could well have been debated together with these Bills. 
The question is: How is the deficit to be financed with a mimimum of dislocation and a minimum of hurt to Australians who have to live under the economic relationships that we help to determine? How is the burden to be distributed as widely as possible? I would hope that these questions were very high in the Government's consideration of the deficit. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting the point had been made, which is the central point of all these Bills, that the Budget deficit or the total deficit is not an evil thing. The point was simply made that it can be very beneficial insofar as it helps economic activity to occur which otherwise would not have occurred. There would not be a person in this House who would disagree with that proposition. To regard the Budget deficit as an evil thing,  ipso facto,  would be to forget everything that has occurred in this chamber since the introduction of the famous Bill by Treasurer Theodore on 17 March 1931. We have moved away from those days. The Government's attitude, as I understand it, is that it is a very great tragedy that a Budget deficit of this size, over $4,000m, has been necessary. That is the tragedy, and that is the tragedy upon which the Australian people made a judgment on 13 December. 
Let me divert for one moment, realising that I have  5Vi  minutes left, and comment upon the remarks of the former Treasurer, the honorable member for Oxley. Everybody in this House would acknowledge his ability and his devotion to the work of the Treasury when he was Treasurer. I was intrigued by his comments upon a recent bulletin- a Press release, I understandput out by the Reserve Bank of Australia which indicated that M3 was increasing at an annual rate of 9 per cent or 10 per cent. That is a very low rate. I have not seen that bulletin. It was as at the end of January, I understand. My comment would be that M3 is not all that meaningful because, unless one adds other very liquid sources of funds to M3, one does not get a real idea of the volume of money. Using M4- it is like running a series of Mercedes cars- and adding into those funds readily available sources such as those which are available in building societiesdeposits of building societies and shares in building societies- from publicly released figures it can be demonstrated that by December M4 was increasing far more rapidly than was the more narrowly significant M3 which does not take into account that other very liquid source of funds. Insofar as the Government is having what is called a mopping-up operation of surplus funds which are available in the community, I presume that it had its eyes more on M4 than on M3. 
Let me return to the Bill. The deficit must be financed. The deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund must be financed. The amount of the deficit projected in the Consolidated Revenue Fund has increased greatly. If one looks at last year's Budget Paper No. 4,  Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure,  and looks at the table of the estimated transactions into and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, one finds that there was to be an amount chargeable to the Loan Fund- in fact a deficit- of $1,1 52m. From the 
Treasurer's statement, unless other action had been taken that would have increased to about $3,000m. I do not say that that is evil either. This Bill has 3 accounting measures which are directed towards looking at that deficit. The first is to make certain funds for defence purposes chargeable not from the Fund but from outside the Fund. That is basically it. The amount which can be charged for defence purposes will not be able to satisfy the legal requirements of the Consolidated Revenue Fund- as has been the case in the past-for the simple reason that these days not enough money is spent or is projected to be spent on defence. We have the paradoxical situation that if we had a far greater projected defence effort these other measures may not be necessary to the extent to which they are. That is not a criticism. 
The second measure is one which I mention in passing and for which no legislation is required. It is the transfer of funds from the National Welfare Fund to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. I have looked back on the debates of over 20 years ago. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  had something to say in those debates, for which I commend him from the perspective of history. I hope that in transferring funds from the National Welfare Fund to the Consolidated Revenue Fund no opportunity is taken to give a false idea of what the deficit would actually be. I am sure that that would not be the case. Transfers between funds do not make up the deficit. The deficit would consist of Consolidated Revenue Fund deficits and Loan deficits as well as other deficits. I hope that that opportunity would not be taken. While looking at that in an accounting manner, one should not forget that it has an economic significance. Insofar as the funds which go into the National Welfare Fund were originally revenue, they have been invested in treasury bills at some modicum of interest- one per cent or so. Insofar as those funds have been transferred by redemption from treasury bills into the Consolidated Revenue Fund, there is an effective subsidy on those funds, to the extent to which there is a differential between treasury bill rate returns and what otherwise would have to be paid by the Government on funds which it would obtain from the community. So there is an effective subsidy on those funds, although it is rather small. Nevertheless, that is not the matter of monetary or economic significance so far as this Bill is concerned. 
The matter of significance is simply this question: How is the deficit to be financed, in terms of loan activities of one kind or another? It can be done in a number of ways. They have different and differing monetary and economic effects. While the deficit may be very significant and very important, it should not be allowed to mesmerise our views of current economic events. 
-Everybody in this House would have that view. Certainly the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is at the table, would have that point of view. He would look at these matters always in terms of economic facts. Full employment in a free society without inflation is what it is all about ultimately. I am reminded of the story which was current during the depression years and which is an adaptation of one related by a very great economist who has been mentioned often in this chamber. During the years of recession and depression people were worried. Now in these years of slumpflation and negflation to use our words, they are worried about the deficit. That economist said: 'You do not want to worry about the deficit. You could get Bank of England notes, put them down an old mine shaft, get all the rubbish from the local village, put it on top of the banknotes, and then pay the unemployed to dig out the notes'. That would have been good economics, but it might have upset some people who at that time had different views about deficits. 
So I come to the last point, which is this: What are the sources of funds which are to be utilised to fund the deficit? Some questions can be asked, and some questions would be required to be asked of the Government. To fund the deficit some burdens will be created. The difficulty is to fund the deficit. Some money will need to be contracted from the system. The difficulty is that there will be a hike in some credit rates or interest rates which are paid for money. All of us would like to know the sources of those funds. So I leave these thoughts with the House. There are various ways in which the deficit can be funded. After all, we are talking about $ 1,800m or so which would be required. We have $3, 000m on the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch);  we have $470m-odd from the National Welfare Fund; and $700m will be available under the defence loan procedures. 
So we are talking about $ 1,800m, which is a very great deal of money. From what sources are those funds to be obtained? As far as I can see, that quite clearly is the ultimate question to be answered. Are they to be obtained from the Reserve Bank? If they are to be obtained from the Reserve Bank, in what form are they to be obtained from that source? Are they to be obtained in the form of treasury bills or by transferring marketable securities to the Reserve Bank in one way or another. Both of those solutions could ultimately cause very different attitudes to the rate of increase of the money supply. I diverge to say this : Money supply, after all, is not the whole determinant of economic activity. There are some people who think that money supply is like an automatic carburettor: If you wind it down everything comes down nicely; if you wind it up, everything goes up nicely. It is like the person who thought that he could put on condition and put on weight merely by loosening one or two notches in his belt. It does" not work that way. Nevertheless, what would be the attitude in respect of the Reserve Bank as a source? 
I ask this other question: What would be the attitude in respect of the trading banks? Are they to be utilised as a source of funds? If they are utilised as a source of funds, what overall restrictive requirements would be put on the trading banks in respect of funds which they supplied in that manner? The third way in which the money could be obtained would be from the non-bank public- apparently those people who contributed to the very recently floated savings bonds. I now ask these questions: What are the household savings which are to be tapped for purposes of contribution to the bonds? What were the household savings which were tapped for contribution to the bonds previously? They are all important questions. They are not the most important questions, but they are all important questions if one observes the principle, which this Government observes, that when a burden is to be put upon people- either a fiscal or a monetary burden- to bring economic disequilibrium under control, that burden ought to be distributed and shared as widely as possible and advantages ought not to be given to those who would obtain, shall we say, flybynight benefits from what is proposed. 
I put those questions in passing to the Minister Assisting the Treasurer. I know that he will devote his mind very actively to them in his reply to the comments which have been made on these Bills, especially after the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  speaks. I disagree with the shadow Treasurer when he tries to say that these are just accounting measures and they have got little economic significance. They do have very great monetary significance. 
-I hope I misunderstood the shadow Treasurer, but I still think he used the words to which I have referred. I indicate once again what my concern is in distributing the burden. I have referred to the utilisation of building society funds, in addition to others, in order to indicate what is happening to the money supply and which money supply is being contracted. When the last series of savings bonds were floated there was some evidence, I believe, of a greater contraction of building society funds- I just use this as one source- from some States where building societies constituted a very large proportion of economic activity than there was from other States. In New South Wales there has been a turnaround of well over $ 100m. I understand that in Queensland there has been a turnaround of $35m to $40m. In other States lesser amounts were involved. All I am saying is that insofar as the interest rate structure of funds which are available to the public differs from one part of Australia to another and from one collection of financial institutions in one part of Australia to another, I hope that the Government monitors the changes and the contributions that come to the loans which will have to be obtained from one part of Australia as compared with another. This is intimately bound up with the first proposition which we stated, that is, in order to bring inflation and to bring negflation and to bring inflation with unemployment under control, the burdens need to be distributed. Burdens there are. 
I conclude on the point on which I began: This Bill is about the deficit and the way in which the deficit which exists in the Consolidated Revenue Fund is to be financed. If it is to be financed, that has to be achieved by a number of measures. I am quite sure that those measures would be monitored very closely both as to the availability of funds to people from different parts -of Australia and the height of the interest rates in those funds in one part of the country as compared with another. I believe that that is only fair, and that is the kind of situation in which the people will co-operate in a battle against inflation. The Government's measures are quite correct. I put aside whatever comments have been made with respect to similar measures last year. I have not dwelt on those at great length. I remind the House of an old saying to the effect that the horse that really pulls the dray is ill-treated, and if the dray is to be pulled to a position of fairness and economic equilibrium we want the burden to be known, and we want it to be distributed as widely as possible, not only among what are euphemistically called households but also among financial institutions in different parts of the Commonwealth. 
I shall take as few minutes as did the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I welcome the statement that has been made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on behalf of the Government. I am sure that it was made with a very sensitive sense of justice that the Government has concerning these matters. Whether or not it will be with the fulsome sense of bounty is to be seen. But there are just one or two points that should be made. I take up the last one that was referred to very quickly, in passing, by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, and that is the position of retired members. They ought not to be excluded from making representation, and as I indicated here in the House a fortnight ago, we hope that just because retired members are out of sight they are not out of mind so far as the deliberations of the Tribunal are concerned. 
-I hope that that is a word of support; I could not catch it. But nevertheless, looking at the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  I can see that he immediately nods assurance to that proposition. I make one other proposition to him, and that concerns the nature of the Tribunal's deliberations. I presume that the Tribunal will be seen, as both Acts indicate, to be completely independent in its methods of assessments, and as to the kind of calculations it is able to make. It is not bound by what happens in respect of other tribunals. I ask the Minister whether that is correct. I presume that that would be the case. 
The Tribunal is independent as to its methods of assessment and as to the investigations it should make. That is something that should be able to give assurance to quite a number of members in this place. 
I mention one thing finally, because the minutes are ticking on, and that is that the setting up of this Tribunal does not act as a criticism of what was done by the previous Government, but merely acts as a referral of what was done by the previous Government in terms of executive action. That distinction ought to be known too, except in one or two instances. I request also that when the Tribunal meets it does consider, quite overwhelmingly, the position of private members of Parliament and that the Tribunal being completely independent, as the Minister has assured me it will be, will not be precluded from doing, for example, a work value study of the position of private members here both present and past, compared with the position of present and past members of like institutions in Australia, that is, the State Parliaments. 
The last sentence of the Minister's statementand I will end on this- indicates that submission may be made to the Tribunal through the Minister, that is, the Minister for Administrative Services. I presume that that submission does not have to be made to the Minister for Administrative Services. In other words, there is an option to approach the Tribunal directly oneself and not necessarily through the Minister for Administrative Services. The last sentence would indicate that it could be by either method. I welcome the Tribunal. Honourable members can look to it with some sense of hope and some sense of justice. I hope that within a short period it is able to consider quite a number of the matters to which I have referred. 
My question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is supplementary to the question asked of him several weeks ago by the Leader of the Opposition, rather predictably on the seventh anniversary of the Moore v. Doyle decision. Is the Minister aware that following amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act last year people have been enrolled in a number of federal unions for whom those unions can obtain no award or determination or make no representation to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. As the Minister, I am sure, would agree with me that this is quite an absurd and unjust situation I put - 
It was at the Launceston Conference in 1971 that the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  first blossomed as an expert in housing. I must say that since those heady days he has learned very little. Certainly he demonstrated again this afternoon that not much by way of real knowledge of a situation has come his way. Looking at the honourable member on the other side of the chamber, I can only think of the advice that was given to Moses as he climbed to the top of Pisgah. The Lord showed him the land beyond and said: 'I bid you to see with your own eyes but you shall not go over there.' So the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will remain where he is. But he was correct in one thing that he said. A very serious situation is occurring today in respect of Australian housing, and I want to devote what few minutes are available to me to that subject. 
Before I do so, let me say that this Bill is generous in that money is made available at 5 per cent to people who obtain homes from housing commissions and at 4 1/2 per cent to those institutions and societies which obtain money through the home builders account. To that extent it is a valuable welfare measure and one that ought to be supported. Nevertheless, from that situation the commentaries err, and they make a very great error. They err in this respect: The Deputy Leader of the Opposition had some idea that housing in Australia was not too good and his first instinct was to say: 'What you should do is make more money available for this kind of housing.' He fails to understand that welfare housing cannot be used and ought not to be used as the principal compensating agent for a downturn in the level of housing activity in Australia. It is an addition. It ought not to be used as a principal compensating factor but compensating factors there ought to be and serious compensating factors ought to be brought into operation in 2 States of Australia. I refer to New South Wales and Queensland. 
For my first piece of evidence I refer to a very valuable report of the National Indicative Planning Council on the Housing Industry which has been given little publicity. It was released early this year; not long ago. The report deals with the time before the introduction of the present monetary policy of the Government and before the run on building societies last week in one State. It deals with the likely level of activity in housing in Australia. I refer to page 10 of that report because it is from this situation that housing activity has deteriorated. In looking at what is a feasible level of housing activity by the June quarter of this year compared with the actual level of housing activity for the same period in terms of commencements in housing one sees that New South Wales was then presumed- and this is an overstatement of the position- to be operating at 1 8.7 per cent below feasible, workable, possible, probable capacity. Queensland was 13.9 per cent below feasible, probable capacity. Today one can only say that in the next quarter of this year New South Wales will be operating at well over 20 per cent below what is a reasonable and feasible level of activity and Queensland will be operating at well over 25 per cent below capacity -a situation which has been exacerbated by what happened to the building societies last week. 
It is with those factors that I want to deal this afternoon and I can deal with them this afternoon because in his speech the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  made it quite clear that he had a view of the level of the activity in the private housing sector on which the proposals were projected. 
I quote from his speech: 
Meanwhile, signs of recovery in the private sector emerged around the middle of 1975 and a continued high level of activity in most States can be expected. 
That is just no longer the case. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition nods his head. He would be the most dangerous man in Australia to let loose on the housing industry. He could not even pick up how serious the situation is and he is supposed to be the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I want to look at the reasons why we are in this desperate situation and ways in which compensating measures ought to be applied. I do not believe they can be ignored. The background reason is the level of the economy and the economic activity that was heritaged- to coin a word- to this Government when it came to power on 13 December. One could only say that after the riot of extravagance comes the pinch of want. The pinch of want is being felt in terms which are not necessarily bad but one has to get the economy into a stage of equilibrium. The pinch of want is being distributed unfairly over the breadth of Australia and over the breadth of Australian States. It has always been my view that when an economy was to be brought into line and sacrifices were to be made those sacrifices ought to be distributed as widely as possible and as equitably as possible. In other words, that is a sense of the fairness of the distribution of burdens with which I think most Australians would agree. But unfortunately monetary policy has fallen particularly heavily upon New South Wales and Queensland and has fallen particularly heavily upon those States for a number of reasons. 
At the end of 1975 New South Wales was climbing very delicately out of the trough of housing activity in which it had been plunged for nearly the previous 2 years. Queensland was coming out of it rather better than New South Wales. Current monetary policy has plunged both those States into a trough and that plain fact has to be acknowledged. After all, even at the last quarter of last year- the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  is attempting to interject; he does not even understand this- in the construction of flats New South Wales was still 60-odd per cent below its peak of activity. That peak of activity 18 months earlier was too high but 60 per cent below is far too great a decline to be contemplated. Queensland was well over 50 per cent below its peak activity. 
What I am saying is this: Due to monetary policies involving bonds which had been floated a greater volume of money has been soaked out of those 2 States than out of the other States of the Commonwealth. It has been soaked out of those 2 States first of all because of the structure of the financial corporations in New South Wales and Queensland. There are two common factors concerning those corporations. In the housing field the Commonwealth Savings Bank dominates savings bank activities in New South Wales and in Queensland. It has more than twice the amount of deposits and activities of savings banks in each of those 2 States. One is a legacy of history. The other is by deliberate choice of government. The second point is that building societies in New South Wales and in Queensland bulk more largely than those in all of the other States of the Commonwealth except one in terms of the proportion of housing activity for which they are responsible. The difference is simply that both of those States had attempted to keep the rates of interest which were payable to building society depositors and therefore to borrowers, below those which were operable in the rest of Australia, and they have now paid the price because they attempted to keep costs low by keeping interest rates low. It is a convoluted piece of reasoning to put into operation a national monetary policy which will penalise those States and those areas which have attempted to keep their interest rates lower than in the rest of the Commonwealth. I believe that is a very unfair and a very unjust proposition. If people could be persuaded to invest in those States at lower rates than those applicable in other States why should they be penalised? Why should those people suffer more in those States? 
Before the run on building societies last week, the amount of funds that could be lent during the January to June period this year in New South Wales was already revised downwards by $120m and in Queensland was already revised down by between $40m and $50m from that source of funds alone. I hope that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs who is sitting at the table and who I presume is listening to this, and listening intensely, will be able to respond to these propositions when he replies at the end of this debate because housing is a very personal matter. It is a matter that concerns a basicenvironment for young people growing up and a basic environment for young people when they are married and when they are engaged in early family formation. First of all, building societies in those 2 States, because of their size and because of their interest rates, suffered more than building societies in the other States and because of their size the housing industry is suffering more in those 2 States than in the other States. 
I turn to the other factor which is an interesting one. I refer to the Commonwealth Savings Bank. Savings bank money is often the best source of funds which can be obtained in housing. Some banks impose too many conditions, but it is money available on very reasonable terms. 
The most reasonable term I would like is .0 per cent. The money is available certainly at quite reasonable terms. The Commonwealth Savings Bank throughout Australia have over quite a long period of time maintained a smaller proportion of its assets in housing than have the other savings banks. I have charted the position over many years. I do not understand it. Why a bank which has connections with the national government should have less of its funds devoted to housing than the other saving banks have is beyond my comprehension, especially when one remembers the charter under which it was set up. 
In December last, according to the latest details from the banking gazette- I use this information merely to illustrate the point I am making- the Commonwealth Savings Bank had 341/4 per cent of its depositors' balances in housing loans. The State Savings Bank of Victoria had 38'/2 per cent. It has been consistently higher. The private savings banks had more than 39 per cent. That position has persisted for a long time. The Commonwealth Savings Bank has a dominant position in the 2 States in which the building societies and their depositors have felt the cold winds of monetary policy more than have those in the rest of Australia. There has therefore been a clear conflux or concatenation of events which are disadvantaging people in those States. I accept the proposition that when the previous Government went out of office there had to be restraints. I accept the proposition that there had to be common sense. I also accept the proposition, on a basic principle of federalism, that those burdens ought to be distributed and ought to be seen to be distributed. If they are not distributed, compensating propositions should be put forward. 
There is another part of this proposition which deserves a little elaboration. It applies to my home State of Queensland, whose structure is so similar to that of New South Wales in this respect. With the run on the funds in the building societies in the last week, people will suffer, in addition to what occurred previously, in 2 ways: Funds will be transferred to other financial institutions such as trading banks, savings banks and so on. If those funds are lent from those institutions there will be a leakage of funds which will not be available for housing, and a smaller proportion of funds will be available for housing than if those funds had remained in the building societies. In addition, there is the simple psychological fact that coming so soon after a run, financial institutions which are the alternative receptors of those funds will be rather cagey about lending. Of course, there was the run on the societies itself. So I make those points. I hope they are appreciated. There are 4 financial arguments which apply. Two of them apply to New South Wales. The four apply to my home State. They are: The position of the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the position of building -societies; and, in my home State, the run on building societies and the leakage to the alternative areas to which the funds which have been taken out of those societies have gone. 
I do not believe that a national government, with the financial powers it has, can remain watching to see that things continue as they are and hoping that nothing further will happen. Therefore, I believe that the Government should look at three or four proposals. It should have some very hard words with those who are running the Commonwealth Savings Bank to see whether it can uplift its performances to those of the other savings banks. So far its performance has not been as good. The Bank ought to uplift its performances in the 2 States that are hardest hit. For example, if it were to uplift its performance in New South Wales to the average of the savings banks, more than $80m extra would be made available immediately for housing purposes there. If it were to maintain the same proportions in housing activity as the private savings banks in Queensland more than $30m extra would be made available immediately. This flexibility which is available to the Commonwealth Savings Bank ought to be grasped now. This is the kind of occasion on which it could step in and make compensating activity. Secondly, it ought to look at the possibility of transferring funds and credit balances from some State offices to those areas where there will be the greatest demand. The area of greatest demand, on the advice of the National Indicative Planning Council, is the 2 northern States of Australia. 
The third point- I hope it is looked at- is that the Government should look again at instituting the kind of activity which was instituted at the end of 1974 when $150m was to be made available through savings banks for housing purposes in Australia. It does not necessarily have to go through savings banks, but that kind of proposal could be put forward. That kind of proposal ought to be examined seriously, to bring some short term equilibrium to an industry which is declining most seriously in those 2 parts of the Commonwealth. Justice requires that if there is to be a contraction of money supply and of the volume of money that contraction be spread, both in terms of the interest rate charges people pay and the volume of money available to people who would negotiate housing loans in the various States. Action can be taken with respect to that. I do not believe that the size of the Budget deficit ought necessarily to be a completely impenetrable barrier to those kinds of considerations. The housing situation is a little different from that which the Minister indicated when he made his speech. He was not able to foresee all the events that have occurred and all the events that are presently in train. Even if he could not foresee them, which is a reasonable proposition, I do not believe those events can be ignored. 
In the June quarter of this year it is quite possible that in New South Wales some tens of millions of dollars less will be available for housing than would reasonably have been expected 2 months ago. In Queensland during the June quarter of this year activity will be at least 25 per cent below what is possible with the resources that would be available in a position of economic equilibrium. Those downturns, which are quite severe, should be examined. I suggest to the Government that it look at those 3 ways of correcting a short term but serious downturn in the position. Once the housing industry declines, there is a loss of resources to that industry which it takes a long time to attract back again. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. He will be aware that on the last occasion but one when a vigorous monetary policy was pursued throughout Australia- I refer to the early 1960s- the effects of that policy fell rather unevenly on certain sectors of industry and on certain States of the Commonwealth. I ask the Prime Minister: What precautions or practices does he have in mind during the present vigorous pursuit of monetary policy to ensure that the effects of that policy do not fall unevenly on certain sectors of Australian industry and on certain States of the Commonwealth, especially New South Wales and Queensland? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to newspaper reports that the Commonwealth proposes negotiations to alter the border between Australia and Papua New Guinea. In the negotiations will the Prime Minister guarantee to do all in his power to ensure that Australian and Queensland State sovereignty are retained over the Torres Strait Islands, their people and the seas from which they draw their total livelihood? Secondly, does the Prime Minister see that section 123 of the Constitution governing alterations to State boundaries will in any way apply to the Commonwealth's position in these negotiations? 
-My statement on the paper presented by the Minister will be very short. I seek to make only 2 points. This is a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics in relation to the Brisbane airport. It ought to be appreciated that the economic hurdles and the economic considerations which have been developed in relation to the proposed construction of that airport have not been developed in relation to any other country or capital city airport in Australia. Such an investigation was not made in relation to Tullamarine nor was it made in relation to Sydney airport or other airports. I hope therefore that when this report is examined it will be realised that the analysis is completely unique. I hope that the anlyasis will not be used as a reason for not proceeding with the promises that were made in 1 97 1 -72. 
The second point I make is that over the years the Commonwealth Government, in respect of its public works, has from time to time made an economic evaluation of other public works. I can think of 2 irrigation and dam projects which were the subject of economic investigation in the 1960s- the Ord River Dam and the Nogoa Dam. In spite of the fact that economic considerations of both those propositions and others indicated work ought not to proceed, the work ultimately did proceed for a whole host of other reasons. Therefore this report ought to be considered against the background of what has been the practice in this country with respect to airports and other public works. If an economic consideration, on whatever basis, is found to be such that the promises made in 1971-72 are not proceeded with, it ought to be realised by the people of Queensland that a barrier is being erected in respect of the proposed airport which has not been erected in terms of any other public work undertaken by the Commonwealth. 
-The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has acquired a reputation in this chamber and throughout the country for his sense of justice. I do not want to comment at great length about that, but I do want to make 2 points. When he left the New South Wales Police Force and came into this chamber it was said that the New South Wales Police Force never would be quite the same again. I understand that it also has been said by some wit that when he left the New South Wales Police Force and entered the Parliamentary Labor Party the average standard in both places rose. We saw some examples of that tonight. I do not want to develop that theme further except to say that no doubt in due time the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  will make his own ready and sensitive response to what has been said. 
The honourable member for Hunter also has an incredibly sensitive and fine sense of history. When political parties come into government in this place they are expected to keep their promises. When the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is now leaving this chamber, spoke this afternoon I was surprised beyond belief that he had the wit or the gall to accuse the present Government of breaking the major promises on which it was elected to office. The Marquess of Rockingham was the first Prime Minister of the United Kingdom to undertake in government the promises he had made when in Opposition. It was George the Third who said of him, being surprised at this proposition: 'You must remember that when an Opposition gets into government it makes a few gestures to old principles but from then on the farce is at an end. It has to get on with government'. 
Promises made ought to be promises kept. I want to go over one or 2 promises that were deliberately and tragically broken by the present Opposition when it was in government. I refer firstly to the most important promise. The promise on which any government has to be sustained in this place and the promise that has existed since the last year of World War II is the promise of full employment. We are in a position today where there is significant unemployment, the causes of which were inherited from the Labor 
Government and which have come about since the Labor Government came into power. The Labor Government was in power for 3 years. In that time it showed more than any other government in Australia's history that it was willing to put people out of work, that it was willing to import into Australia the situation of people knocking on back doors with the catch-cry: 'Lady, have you got a job?' That is the philosophy that the Labor Government imported into Australia and that is the philosophy, that is the practice, of which we have to rid this country. That promise has been made. We intend to keep the promise in respect of having a stable economy in this country. 
Let us consider some other propositions. The Labor Government forgot one overriding, important ingredient; that is, that one cannot in fact provide people with the wherewithal that they desire in terms of living standards, stable prices and jobs unless there is economic growth in Australia. Unless there is development, unless there is growth, none of those things can be provided. That basic and most tragic ingredient in fact sifted itself through the 3 years Labor was in office and the electorate and the Australian people ought never to be allowed to forget that fact and that experience. 
We know that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  is vying with some other members of his own Party to get into a position of leadership. I would say that on this afternoon's performance there are a number of New South Wales members who would leave him for dead. They would finish the race before he got into the straight because this afternoon's performance was an incredible tragedy. Let me remind him of some of the propositions he has made. He said this Government is not going on with some of the park schemes; it is not going on with some of the local improvement schemes that his Party, when in office, had in mind; it is not doing a whole wealth of other activities that his Party had undertaken. He has forgotten that a cake can have in it very satisfactory ingredients such as sultanas and other fruit but when there is an ounce of strychnine in it, it is useless. Such was the position with the Labor Party and those propositions he put came to nought. What he would have would be an excellent park scheme and an excellent area improvement scheme in which the hundreds of thousands of unemployed Australians could rest. That is the Labor Party's sense. That is the sense of economy which Labor had and which it imported into this country. That is one belief of which this country has to be rid. He made a number of other propositions which I find intriguing but which time would prevent me dwelling on, but the overall philosophy of them deserve to be rejected. 
There is one other point of the experience of the Labor Government which is now possible to be calculated. Not only was it in a couple of years able to generate high unemployment, not only was it in a couple of years able to generate a very great and an increasing rate of inflation- and by the way, it is a rate which is decreasing very rapidly at the present time- but at the same time it was also able to rob Australians and Australian households of the dollars which were earned and which were going into those households. The national account figures for December last year which are now available indicate the kind of experience we had at the end of the term of the previous Labor Government. An important question for anybody to ask is: How much of every dollar that is being earned and that is going into an Australian household is being surrendered to government and to public authorities? It is now quite clear that as at December last year when the Labor Government was rejected of every earned dollar that was going into an Australian household under a socialist government- and it gave the lead to the other governments in Australia and to the other public authoritiesover 40c was surrendered to a public authority. So at the same time the Labor Government was able to reintroduce the word 'dole', was able to reintroduce the word 'hyper-inflation' and was able to show how governments could rip it off. That is the kind of situation which this Government has to remedy. It is the kind of situation this Government has to alter and today it is in the process of altering it. I hope that that will be appreciated by the Opposition. 
The Labor Party's performance in office needs to be borne in mind. AH of that of course only has meaning and the process can be given meaning only if we come back to the proposition made by Chifley and by Dedman when they made their solemn promises on full employment in 1945 and if we can have economic growth developing in Australia. The national account figures illustrate one further point which indicates the dying performance of the previous Labor Government. It is simply this: In terms of the national product of Australia, over the last quarter of 1 975- that is the December quarter- the Labor Government's performance was not only worse than for the December quarter of the year earlier, but it was worse than the performance of 2 years earlier and one has to go to some years previously with a smaller Australia with a smaller work force in order to see just how bad the performance of the previous Labor Government was. So we were in a continuous period of decline, of declining living standards and those other facets of those declining living standards to which I have given quick passing reference this evening. But the philosophy of that also deserves to be borne in mind. There are people who think that they can be engaged in personal campaigns of vilification to vindicate their position. In politics they adopt the court room position all the time but unless people are able to live decently all of those protestations of court room rights which are so actively pursued by the Sydney silk that leads the Labor Party come to nothing. 
Yes, sort of Sydney silk. I would like to quote from a very excellent book by Wilfred Beckerman, an economist appointed by the British Labor Government to many comittees during the years it was in power. They are powerful words because they in fact indicate the abysm into which this Labor Party has plunged the Australian people. As he pointed out: 
A mistake in a criminal trial might mean imprisonment for one innocent man. A failure to maintain economic growth means continued poverty, deprivation, disease, squalor, degradation and slavery to soul-destroying toil for countless millions of the world 's population. 
-You not only wear loud shirts, you portray the essential narrowness and the bigotry of your own Victorian Labor Party. The Victorian Labor Party has been a millstone around the neck of the Australian Labor Party for 25 years and it is personified in the honourable member for Melbourne. One has only to listen to him: Bark and the old mongoose looks backwards. One can see a departure from that sense and from that philosophy by the alternative government in Australia and it was for those reasons above all other reasons that alternative government was rejected. 
If I may I will look at things in another sense and look at the propositions that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made last night because he made a number of propositions which are very important to be borne in mind. We know that we are unable to get to a state of economic equilibrium in Australia unless cost pressures are significantly reduced. Those cost pressures have to be reduced with an abiding sense of social justice and an abiding sense of the desire to distribute the burden in Australia. There are 3 propositions that the Prime Minister made last night which in fact have a very great and very overwhelming industrial significance. 
One proposition was the one on which the Government supports wage indexation, and that is plateau indexation. In other words, what the Government is saying in that proposition is simply this: We would desire to bring cost pressures down in Australia while guaranteeing for Australian workers below the average wage a living standard able to keep pace with inflation. At the same time the Prime Minister also proposed tax indexation which means that living standards in terms of household dollarsdisposable dollars- will be able to be retained by those citizens earning above the average wage. The third proposition the Prime Minister madeand it is the first time it has been put together in this way in the history of this nation- is simply that the Government will attempt to maintain living standards for those on low incomes and those on high incomes with dependants. So there is a proposition which is designed to retain the levels of disposable income and disposable dollars during the period when cost pressures have to be reduced for Australians on low incomes, Australians on high incomes and Australians on those incomes with dependants. That is a very important social package and it must have meaning in this country. 
Never been tried before, as the honourable member has emphasised. The British Labour Government, for example, which is in a similar bind but rather worse, in trying to reduce cost pressures in that nation is not going to the same length to provide social justice by guaranteeing disposable incomes to its own citizens with varying numbers of dependants and at various levels of income. I believe therefore that that proposition, that that deal, that that offer- because it is an offer- ought to be heeded by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Above all, the Arbitration Commission must be concerned with the take-home pay in people's pay packets or the income available to households. Those 3 propositions have a great deal to do with what is available to people and to households. 
I hope that in that sense the Government becomes very active in seeking to sell what it has proposed and what it put forward last night. It is quite clear that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions will not seek to sell it. He has a political career in mind. He intends to challenge the honourable member for Port Adelaide; we know that. He is not concerned with economic equilibrium. He is not concerned with protecting the rights of those people whose rights have to be protected during times such as these. We know the Government not only has to sell this from Parliament but also has to sell it on shop floors, in offices and on the wharves throughout Australia, because there are other union leaders in the nation whose job it is to wreck and muck up the economy. We remember only last year the case of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and Carmichael and Halfpenny who, because the workers of this country supported wage indexation and because they agreed with the proposition of tax indexation, could get nothing but a day-long strike. It was in that sense that we saw that workers in Australia had the sense to know that the alternatives to what we were proposing- the Labor Party was proposing some of the same measures- should not be abandoned for the sake of union leaders whose desire was to cause social wreckage and economic disaffection. 
I hope that the 3 strands of the Prime Minister's offer last night are heeded by those who ought to heed them. I hope they are heeded by those who have to sell them. It is quite clear that the path of recent years deserves to be reversed. There is room within which it can be reversed. It is clear that the announced Budget deficit in terms of Reserve Bank borrowings is not quite as large as the published figures indicate. The published figures indicate it is of the order of $4,800m. Honourable members will notice that I still use the English numbers. In terms of effective Reserve Bank new finance it is a little over $3,000m. That difference gives the Government more room to manouvre in respect of the current economic position in Australia than is generally realised. 
When one appreciates that in those circumstances there is also great evidence that the rate of market-caused inflation is decreasing very rapidly- for example, the last consumer price index in all items excepting food showed the greatest drop over a quarter for very many years- I believe we are at a significant turning point. I believe that significant turning point can only be gained and can only be secured if 4 areas of the population with responsibility realise the social justice and the sense of fairness of what is being done. Three of those sections are simply the Arbitration Commission, employers, and business, which still retains a great obligation to expand employment opportunities as quickly as it possibly can. After all, business must realise that if it does not expand employment opportunities to provide jobs the voter will opt for another kind of system which will not be so good for business. All the Government can do is provide the ingredients with which those with goodwill are able to generate something that is worth while for Australia. The fourth group amongst whom there should be an appreciation of what is being offered are the workers. I believe that they will and that they will show great sense about what the Prime Minister offered last night, j lust as they showed significant sense during the last months of the Labor Government. They know when something that is being offered is fair. They know when a government is trying to protect their rights as well as to uplift the totality of the Australian community and the Australian economy. The sense of justice that underlay last night's proposition ought to be appreciated. 
I want to mention one matter for a few minutes only and that should make the Government Whip very happy. It is often said that members of Parliament speak mostly about things about which they know the least. I cannot pretend to have a precise knowledge of the Audit Act but there are one or two points in it which worry me and about which I am requesting an answer from the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I direct the Minister's attention to clauses 3 1 and 33 in this Bill, particularly clause 31.1 know that if the Minister cannot give me an answer between now and 6 p.m., he will give me an answer, perhaps in the House, on another occasion. I am puzzled. Section 49 of the present Act requires a statement from the Treasurer monthly in relation to transactions of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the expenditure' of the Loan Fund. Essential features of that section are being taken out of the Act as a result of the passage of this Bill. I shall read section 49 ( 1 ) of the Act in order to explain. It states: 
The Treasurer shall, as soon as conveniently may be after the expiration of each month of each financial year, publish a statement of the receipts and the expenditure of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and of the expenditure of the Loan Fund for that month and during that year up to the end of that month. 
That section is to be significantly altered. The relevant clause in this Bill proposes to delete the words 'of the receipts and the expenditure of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and of the expenditure of the Loan Fund' and to substitute the words 'in such form as he thinks fit, of the receipt and expenditure of public moneys'. That is a much more elastic obligation that a Treasurer can observe under the new proposal compared with what he has to observe under the Act as it now stands. 
I know that the monthly statement of the Treasurer is very valuable. It has a long history. Its form has been changed once or twice over recent years to a more functional one which makes it rather more difficult for one to look at the receipts and the expenditure of money. Nevertheless I ask the Minister. In what form is it proposed that the Treasurer shall make his statements in substitution for the present requirement in the relevant section of the Act? I suggest that to say that it is to be done in such form as the Treasurer sees fit is not quite a sufficient guarantee that the Parliament will have readily available to it, and spontaneously available, the accounts of the Commonwealth which it would desire to have. The present administration of this section of the Act is of very great economic significance. It has very great financial significance. A former Treasurer will immediately acknowledge what I am saying. This requirement may have been a burden on the Treasury and it may have been a burden on the former Treasurer but nevertheless this was a very valuable statement which made the Treasurer answer for various aspects of Commonwealth economic and financial policy. The elastic obligation to be substituted by means of the relevant clause of the Bill is not sufficiently precise for my purpose. These days, when we have to consider the nature of Budgets and Budget deficits and the way they are financed, the economic and financial effects of the financing of Budget deficits, that statement ties in with the significance of the monthly doings of the Commonwealth that cannot be put aside very easily. 
I ask the Minister: In what form is it intended that the Treasurer make his statement subsequent to the passage of this Bill? We need to have some guarantees. I believe they are needed for the correct management of the Commonwealth. Section 49 (2) is to be omitted. Basically it relates to a half-yearly statement. Why is that to be omitted? Why should it be omitted and what is to be substituted in its place? I have gone over my time. The Government Whip has indicated that my time has finished. I put those 2 questions to the Minister in relation to clause 3 1 of the Bill and I would appreciate an answer from him. It is important for a whole host of reasons which I do not believe have been dealt with. 
My question which is directed to the Prime Minister refers to the principles of tax indexation recommended by the Mathews Committee report, which the Government has said it desires to implement. I indicate that I have always understood that those principles applied not only to the tax brackets but also to the deductions as they apply to the taxation system itself. As it would appear from reports that the Government intends transferring the tax rebates for children to an effective form of child endowment, will the Prime Minister do what he can to see that the advantages of tax indexation will apply to those transferred forms of child endowment? 
-The greatest force for an egalitarian influence in a nation and the force which gives the people of a nation the opportunity to uplift themselves is not so much the distribution of power but the availability of information. What I have to say this morning will be on that theme. It will not be a popular proposition, but it will be short. It concerns the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the availability of information from that Bureau. This should be in no way understood to be a criticism of that body. The Opposition member at the table at the moment, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was formerly a Minister in charge of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
My remarks concern the equal availability of information from the Bureau in different parts of Australia at the same time. If there is one source in this country which has more information about our nation, our people, our national resources and our economic welfare at any moment of time that source is the Bureau of Statistics. One has to look only at the information and statistics which are released by the Bureau on any one day to see the amount of work which is done by that organisation. For example, on 5 May- and I have picked this date at randomthe Bureau released information on wage rate indexes, Australian exports, income distribution, labour mobility and so on. These are all matters which are extremely important, which are capable of interpretation and which ought to be interpreted not only in Canberra but also in the various other parts of Australia. 
The position at the moment is that in general the information from the Bureau becomes available in Canberra and in the Canberra Press Gallery sometimes days, but generally something like a day, before it becomes available to people who have an equal interest in the various great capital cities of Australia. So very often the first interpretation of information from the Bureaufor example about the progress of the Australian economy- is the interpretation which is most widely held. I would request that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  who cannot be here this morning, take what action he can to break the logjam concerning the availability of that information at equal times. For example, at present the State governments situated in the great capital cities very often have the duty to interpret information quickly and to take action and inform their people as to the interpretation of that information. Under the present arrangements they cannot do this. The information becomes available, for example, to a Canberra throwaway newspaper before it becomes available to a State government sitting in one of the great capitals of Australia. 
I take this matter a little further. The information becomes available to such an organisation before it becomes available to a Federal member of Parliament who happens to be situated in Adelaide or even in Sydney. I know that in specific cases, such as in the case of the consumer price index which is probably the most widely viewed and apprehended piece of information issued by the Bureau, the Statistician has to make special efforts to see that information becomes available in the capital cities at a similar time to which it is available here. But that is in special cases. One would not like to generalise- in fact one cannot generalise- in this respect. Therefore I ask that the Government has discussions with the Commonwealth Statistician to see whether new procedures can be instituted so that this information will be available in places such as Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane at a similar time to when it becomes available here. 
One of the arguments that may be put forward against such a proposal is that the Bureau of Statistics has a special relationship to the Commonwealth Government and consequently it is appropriate that the services of the Bureau be available to, say, Federal Ministers or the Federal Government in advance of those who are situated in the States. I do not accept that proposition because the very development of the Bureau in Canberra derived from the prior development of the State  deputy  statisticians. Up until recently one State maintained a significant independence in this area, and I do not know whether Victoria still has its own State statist. Nevertheless the present Bureau has derived from the State statistics organisations and information ought to be available to all parts of Australia at similar times. I request, therefore, that the Government take this matter up with the Commonwealth Statistician and rearrange the times of distribution of the multitude of information available from the Bureau. Attempts should be made to see that that information is released in the great capital cities of Australia at a similar time to which it becomes available in Canberra. It is appropriate if a spirit of federalism is to obtain that that manifest pre-eminently in terms of information. I believe that is far more important than even propositions concerning the distribution of power and money. We are talking about information which enables people to be able to equally chart their lives. Those people situated in Canberra ought not to have the advantage in respect of the timing of the release of information which they presently have. . 
I hope that what I have to say is not in any way taken to be a criticism of the present Commonwealth Statistician with whom I have had correspondence on this matter. But there is a logjam to be broken and I believe that it can be broken only through the convening of a formal conference attended by the Commonwealth Government at which new formal procedures can be worked out. For these procedures to be acceptable the Commonwealth Government would need to indicate that it is quite willing and able to facilitate the transmission of information at similar times in each part of Australia. 
-There are one or two parts of clause 1 1 that deserve comment. This clause is not the first clause on which I would have desired to speak, but of course there is a necessary contraction of the time available to members. Nevertheless, that is part of the organisation of the House. Of necessity the difficulties with clause 1 1 are similar to the difficulties which apply to clause 10. Those difficulties are common in this respect: An attempt is being made to create a market under which a certain scheme will operate. It is not that the Government is going out and working on the market that exists; it is making its own market. Of necessity, in respect of clause 10 we have seen some of the problems that exist. A government can only do what is possible in determining the adequacy and the justice of that market. In clause 10 it took about 18 pages to do so. In this clause it takes about one page to determine the new market on which the tax deductibility scheme will operate. There are 2 principles of the operation of clause 1 1 which are outlined in the 
Minister's second reading speech. I believe that those principles are denied and seriously modified by the precise application of clause 1 1. The relevant sentences of the second reading speech are these: 
The realities are that it is the move into the first purchased home that is the key step, and that the relative burden of servicing a loan is normally heaviest during the first years of the loan. 
So it is the first home which is the key step. The second principle expressed in the speech is: 
That is why. under the amendments proposed, interest deductions will be allowable after 30 June 1976 only in respect of first homes and during the first 5 years of the loan to acquire that home. 
So it is the first home and 5 years after 30 June 1976 which are the determining- it is a word I hate to use- parameters of the Government's mind. 
In clause 1 1 there are what I consider to be the development of serious injustices. I refer firstly to clause 11(1) (b), lines 15 to 17. That sub-clause means a serious injustice. It provides one of the qualifying principles to be utilised in respect of gaining the mortgage deductible interest. It simply means that if a taxpayer, or the spouse of a taxpayer, had had an interest in a previous home the taxpayer is debarred from receiving the benefit of the interest deductibility. I give an example of what is meant by that: A woman may be married and her husband may die. She becomes a widow. She may have an interest in the previous home which is an extremely modest interest. It may be an interest only in the land or it may be an interest in a home that is in fact a shack. Nevertheless for the purposes of her husband and herself, it is a first home. She becomes a widow and marries again, and because of that first interest, in respect of the second home the taxpayer is debarred from receiving the benefit of the interest deductibility. It is a situation which I desire to take care of by moving an amendment to leave out words in clause 11 (l)(b). That clause states that the deduction is not allowable if:  at the time mentioned in paragraph (a) the taxpayer, or a person who was the spouse of the taxpayer at that time, held a relevant interest in the other dwelling. 
My proposal is to leave out the words 'or a person who was the spouse of the taxpayer at that time'. That would fix that situation. But immediately, other positions arise, because if one spouse dies there could be a remarriage. There could be separations and so on. If one were to amend that clause, and if loopholes were not to be created, there would have to be an amendment to clause 1 1 (2) (ii), lines 27 to 35. Frankly I have not been able to devise an appropriate amendment to that clause. But it is something that the Government ought to look at because if that were taken out, at first blush the thought should be that the second proposition- lines 25 to 34- ought also to be taken out. They provide that a deduction is not allowable in respect of an amount by way of interest paid by a taxpayer on or after 1 July 1976 in respect of a loan connected with a dwelling:  if another person who is or has been the spouse of the taxpayer holds or has held a relevant interest in the dwelling and that other person- 
acquired such interest at a time when that other person was the spouse of the taxpayer or 
became the spouse of the taxpayer at a time when that other person held such an interest . . . 
If lines 25 to 34 were taken out the property could be handed on from one spouse to another over successive 5-year periods for the purpose of the loan. It would also be necessary to take out sub-section (3) of the proposed new section 83KBA which reads: 
A deduction is not allowable under this Subdivision in respect of an amount by way of interest paid by a taxpayer on or after 1 July 1 976 in respect of a loan connected with a dwelling where, if the amount had been paid by the spouse of the taxpayer, a deduction would not, by reason of subsection (1) or (2), have been allowable under this Subdivision in respect of the payment. 
That sub-section would create loopholes that are unsatisfactory. So I say to the Government that I hope it bears in mind the inadequacies that develop in respect of the qualifying circumstances for tax deductibility. The 2 principles that should be borne in mind in giving this tax deductibility are simply that the Government should say that a new home means a new household and define for its own purposes what a household is. It ought to redefine sub-section (4) of proposed new section 82KBA and redefine the relevant interest in the previous home which debars the subsequent spouse from receiving the benefit of the tax deductibility scheme. At present it is defined very widely. I believe that with the wit that is available to clever lawyers and the Treasury it can be redefined and that the Government should look at this matter between now and the time when the Bill passes to the Senate or subsequent to its passage in the Senate. 
I return once again to the nature of the scheme with which this clause deals. It should not be considered for one moment that I ever thought that this tax deductibility scheme was a good scheme. I always thought that it was a poor scheme, a very regressive scheme for a whole host of reasons. Both the Government and the Opposition know my views in respect of that matter. But the scheme is with us. I suspect that very senior people in the Opposition who brought this scheme in as a last minute election promise in 1972 also realised the inadequacy of the scheme. I have reason to believe that they intended to see the scheme phased out by letting the $14,000 limit remain and pass into insignificance as inflation went on its way. 
I return again to the proposition that I am making. The Government will have to look at redefining the market which will be appropriate for giving this tax deductibility. It ought to try to redefine that in terms of households. It ought to try to redefine in another way the relevant interest which causes a spouse of a previous marriage to debar a taxpayer in a subsequent marriage from receiving the benefit of the tax deductions. If that is done, and if it is costed, I believe that it would provide a semblance of justice in respect of the scheme. It would also cause the second reading speech of the Minister to be expanded to define the circumstances of this new market. As with the investment allowance, the difficulty here is defining the market- what are to be the exclusions, what are to be the inclusions and what are to be the limits with respect to both. In all cases in which a government is defining a situation of this kind it will find difficulties at the margin. The difficulties at the margin here, which differ in a different way from the difficulty in respect of the investment allowances, are ones that concern people very personally. They concern people with respect to their homes and their households. I believe that the Government would get credit if it gave an indication- I say this to the Minister who is having a discussion at the table - 
-But he will take notice, I am sure. I believe that the Government would get credit if the Minister would only indicate that this whole matter will be looked at again, with the idea of providing some semblance of social justice that ought to apply in respect of this section of the community. 
I have been fascinated by the speech of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  He has made 4 propositions, each of which needs to be explained. 
He rambled on very quickly. He was very nervous. In the first place nobody on the Government side says and no sensible person says that a deficit is of its nature a bad thing. Nobody with any sense says that. What has been said and what I have said over and over again is simply this: It is an absolute tragedy that Australia's economy was so underutilised that the Government, which is now the Opposition, had to plunge this country into a deficit of over $4,000m. The size of that deficit is a reflection of the size of the failure of the previous Government to have the economy operating at full employment level. That is a fair definition of what a deficit is about. 
The second point the honourable member makes is that he is not worried about the size of the government sector. He was overconcerned I was fascinated with this overconcern to say all the time that the tax indexation proposition, so strongly supported by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and myself in the Liberal Party, is not really a reduction in tax rates. A Bill before Parliament is designed to bring in tax indexation. It involves a reduction in effective tax rates by 1 3 per cent. It does that by changing the tax brackets. If one lives in a continuum in terms of economic experience it means that the proposed rates of tax to be paid after 1 July of this year will be 1 3 per cent below the proposed rates of tax to be paid during June of this year. That is an effective reduction on any simple common sense analysis of the proposition. 
Let us look at the other side of the argument. A few months ago the Opposition, when in government, was arguing that it could not introduce tax indexation. Members of the Labor Party said they could only go a certain way towards introducing it. They said that they might look at it. Their proposition would have amounted to $395m. They said they could not introduce tax indexation because it would reduce revenue too much. They were saying that they could not give tax cuts of that size. That was the argument a few months ago in 1975. The fourth point made by the honourable member is another fascinating one. He was saying that the transferring of some tax rebates and other funds to family allowances means that money is more likely to be saved than to be spent. Anybody knows, and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said it over and over again over the years, that the respending coefficient of cash transfers is much higher than the respending coefficient of wages, and the tax rebates represented disposable income in the form of wages. Therefore the honourable member for Gellibrand in 15 minutes made only 4 errors, but each was very significant. 
There are those who look at history as they look at a scroll. They see history over a long period and draw a line and try to compartmentalise one period from another. They look at 1919 and say that what happened then had nothing to do with 1918 and before; that what happened in 1933 had nothing to do with 1932 and before. They say that they will draw a line across 1945 and say that 1946 was a completely new ball game. The Opposition, with this distorted view of history, is trying to draw a line across that scroll as at the end of 1975 and say: 'Let us forget all that happened in 1975 and before'. I promise the Opposition that it will not be allowed to forget that. It is not only silly politics but also it is a very distorted picture of any reasonable view of history. The Opposition has to live and it must live overall with the economic history which it created. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, before the suspension of the sitting for dinner we had an interesting excursion into history. We made it quite clear that we on the Government side would not allow a line to be drawn across the scroll of history concerning the economic performance of the Opposition when it was the Federal Labor Government. We intend to remind the Opposition and remind it again of that performance not only because it is sensible politics but also because our comments are a truthful recitation of what occurred during the 3 years from 1972 to 1975. There is one measure according to which the judgment of a government's performance has to be made. It is a measure I ave repeated over and over again in this place. It is the measure of the success of a government in achieving full employment for its people. That is the measure which is understood by households. It is the measure which in fact reflects the economic nature of the society in which we live. 
All the time that the Opposition was in Government I felt it was committed to full employment, but it was not committed to the other side of the bargain. To use Beveridge's famous words which revolutionised the Western world, one can attain full employment only in a free society, in a society which is predominantly a private enterprise society, which is predominantly a free enterprise society. It cannot be attained otherwise. So the headlong run into the replacement of private with public expenditure by the Opposition when it was in government represented an ideological commitment. 1 make the point because it is important. To illustrate this crucial and central point, I quote from a journal called the  New China News  which is put out by Peking China. The issue of 1 9 May states: 
No Unemployment in New China 
Peking- There is no unemployment in New China. Among the 800 million population even the blind and deaf mutes take pan in work that is within their power under the care of the Party and the State. 
Those last live or six words are important because they contradict what should be the aim of any government here, whether it is a government from the Labor Party or the Liberal and National Country Parties. One can obtain free choice and full employment only in a society in which private enterprise is expanding as rapidly as possible. That brings me back to the other point. The central feature of our society - 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  might laugh. He produced explanations for the 3 years of Labor Government which resulted only in misery being caused. I was fascinated when he spoke here this afternoon. He said that he regretted what is being done with growth centres, parks and expenditure on all kinds of institutions. He hardly said one word to express regret at what he as a senior Minister had helped to cause in terms of full employment. It is no good having growth centres, parks and free institutions if they run only on the same track as in a country where hundreds of thousands of people are on the dole. That represents the philosophically different position between the Opposition and the Government. 
Concerning the package itself, the honourable member for Gellibrand, who is a clever person, attempted to analyse the fiscal aspect. I have great respect for him as a clever person. But he made 4 errors and the nature of those 4 errors were pointed out before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. In total the fiscal package might be mildly deflationary. The positive sides of it in fiscal terms are the change to child endowment, tax indexation- which is one of the most important changes ever introduced in Australia- and, of course, a transfer from the rebate system to a cash transfer system. The negative elements are the fact that government expenditure is not presumed to rise in real terms over the next year and of course some health payments will have to be made. But underlying all of this has to be the proposition that private enterprise needs to expand in these circumstances. 
This brings me once again to looking at the position of the Budget deficit. We say that the national deficit, as defined by this Budget, exists in order to cause economic activity to occur. That is a flexible definition. If it can be so organised or financed as to cause more economic activity to occur than would otherwise be the case one changes the nature of the Budget deficit to do so. The Opposition used the Budget deficit in order to make what was predominantly a private enterprise economy into one which became a minority private enterprise economy. There is an economic and an ideological difference between the Opposition and the Government in respect of that matter. The package that the Government has offered is a unique package which has been offered in a country which is trying to bring cost pressures under control. Whenever there was significant inflation in Australia before, or whenever mini budgets were brought in before- in 1 953, 1 956 and in 1 974-the basis of the package was never designed to guarantee disposable dollars to people in order to encourage them to cooperate in the matter of bringing cost inflation under control. They missed. For example, in 1974 when the Opposition was in government it introduced a reduction in tax rates which was significantly less than the reduction which is being made now. So the key of the Government's program is to try to guarantee disposable dollars in the pockets of those who need the dollars in order to co-operate in the battle against unduly rising cost pressures. In a sentence, that is the way in which we hope that the package will be understood. 
The British Prime Minister at present, Sonny Jim, who is a respectable person with a respectable history as a member of Parliament and in terms of his values, has problems with cost pressures but he is not seeking to make an offer which guarantees disposable dollars in the way in which this offer is designed to guarantee them. One cannot dispute the Government's intentions and motives in that respect. The key of any government's attitude has to be its attitude towards deficits. In no circumstances can a deficit be allowed to become an absolutely rigid proposition. If it were to become a rigid proposition there are many different ways by which deficits can be financed. By fastening one's mind on the figures one forgets that a deficit is there for the purpose of generating economic activity. The Opposition used a deficit as an ideological commitment to change the balance and the nature of the Australian  economy.  It was one which could not deliver Beveridge s proposition of full employment in a free society. The Opposition wanted to socialise the community and to bureaucratise it. That immediately removes half of the sentence which mentions full employment but one also has to consider the nature of society. 
Over the previous 3 years the previous Government made all kinds of explanations as to the position it was in. It almost added an explanation daily. But it should be remembered that the Opposition cannibalised the Australian economy over those 3 years. It destroyed its innards and its soul and it did it by its control of public expenditure. Above all, it forgot the balance that needs to be induced in the Australian community in order to get progress. By the introduction of this package the Government is attempting to restore that balance. I believe that it can be put back again. But, above all, those people who have a vested interest in the economy not developing, or who have a vested interest in destroying confidence, are the ones who will do the greatest harm to Australia and to the Australians who are most vulnerable. It is the most vulnerable Australians that the Government has attempted to deal with and to help in terms of the disposable dollar package that I believe it has marketed especially for the benefit of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nicholls)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the final report of the Commission of Inquiry into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions. As there is at the very least a very strong presumption on the evidence that extortion, blackmail and intimidation occurred which were not pursuant to an industrial purpose, what action does the Commonwealth propose to take? Is the Commonwealth necessarily wedded to  Mr Justice  Sweeney's proposal to validate or forget the past and merely alter the auditing obligation of bodies registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? 

 -Mr Chairman - 

 - Mr Chairman, we are very satisfied with the way in which you are upholding the dignity of this chamber. We are always delighted to know that its dignity is upheld in relation to the Executive. I refer to why clause 6 has been included in this Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill. I will quote from the words of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  because they explain the intention of what is proposed. The Minister said that the Government's amendment proposes to make the nexus between inflation and employment a principal point of consideration in the matters on which the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will adjudicate in so far as they affect the economy. I suggest that the amendment proposed by the Government does make for considerable problems. At page 4 of his second reading speech the Minister said: 
It does, however, recognise- as recent experience has highlighted-the nature of the nexus between the rate of increase in labour costs, especially wages, unemployment and inflation. I do not need to stress the importance of this in the overall interests of the Australian community. 
On that basis these words are added to the section which was added to the Act in 1972: . . . any awards . . . might be made with special reference to likely effects on the level of employment and on inflation. 
That is the sense of what the Minister was saying. In other words, he was saying simply that in these days of inflation it has now become a truism that one man's wages is another man's job. Therefore, the Government is attempting to import these 2 principles into the determinations of the Commission in respect of monetary matters. I believe that these principles are insufficient for a number of reasons. Immediately one decides that a determination or an award is to be altered because of the effect it might have on unemployment and the effect of that unemployment on the economy, one forgets that there is a 2-way stream of events. There is the effect of an award on the economy but there is also the effect of an economy on inflation itself. There can be occasions- in fact there are many occasionswhen, in a severely deflationary situation, or in a situation of a significant credit squeeze, the major effect on employment is a general economic one and not the giving or the determination of an award. There is a 2-way effect. As the clause stands now, all those matters are considered insofar as they affect the economy but the economy also affects them. I think that section 39 is fairly inadequate and that clause 6 is inadequate as it stands at present, and it is for that reason that I suggest to the Minister that the word 'inflation' be omitted and the following words substituted in its place: 'prices having regard to the state of the national economy at that time'. That proposition is designed to take account of the aggregate effect of the economy on employment so that it is separated from any determination of an award which itself can affect employment. I can think of many situations since 1945 in which the principal effect on employment and unemployment in the economy has been severely deflationary. The honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  who is nodding his head would immediately recognise this. As the clause stands at the moment, those aggregate economic effects would be ignored in any determination. 
I am also sensitive about this for another reason. This clause brings in a sense of history. It is very much like the old iron law of wages, the old wage fund idea that there was so much money in an economy to pay for wages and, of course, the lower the wages were, the higher the employment would be; the higher the wages were, the higher the unemployment would be. This clause gets very close to that situation. I believe that when the Minister looks at this clause he should pay particular deference to what I am saying. I can think of another situation in which the major effect on employment would not be the determination of an award but would, in fact, be the reallocation of resources in an economy. There are industries, as there have been in the past, which because of competition and other factors are declining in their capacity to offer employment or the conditions for employment. It would be wrong under those circumstances to suspend a determination of an award for the reason that it might cause unemployment when the unemployment was being caused by a totality of other effects which concern the economy as a whole. For those reasons the clause as it stands now is, I believe, very close to the old 19th century wage fund idea which did not even allow - 
The tragedy is that these matters have to be considered because of the dreadful mess your Party made of the economy. Normally honourable members opposite forget that wage indexation is a short term measure brought about by the economic mess for which the honourable member for Port Adelaide and his colleagues were responsible. They forget that they provided the context and the sub-strata for this kind of consideration. We are trying to alter, with justice, the situation they developed and imposed upon the people. They forget these things all the time. The same applies to the Budget deficit. We can talk about it as much as we like, but the tragedy is that such a large deficit was necessary under the government supported by honourable members opposite. It was a direct reflection of their inadequacy to bring about their ideals in government. 
Let me summarise my suggestion to the Minister. I hope that he will agree that it be considered, and considered carefully. In 1972, when the present section 39 was added to the Act, I was rather nervous about imposing the obligation it stated. I felt that, stated in general terms, it could be taken into account. My concern relates to the addition of the precise words such as those in the last part of the clause. It states that in the settlement of disputes the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission shall consider- these are the precise words- 'the likely effects on that economy of any award that might be made in the proceedings or to which the proceedings relate, with special reference to likely effect on the level of employment and on inflation'. My proposal is to take out the word 'inflation' because it is a general term, not a fundamental word, and substitute the words 'prices having regard to the state of the national cconomy at that time'. I believe the reasoning is clear. I believe that what I suggest is also correct total economics and it takes account of the fact that in the determination of any award there is a local effect in relation to the dispute itself, but there is also an aggregate effect related to the economic growth of the community, related to deflationary effects that may occur in the economy and related to a possible credit squeeze in the economy. In looking at the determination of an award and its effect on inflation, those other matters ought to be considered also. Neither the Act as it is, nor clause 6, take account of those factors. I would hope that the Minister, in considering a review of section 39 of the Act, takes into account what I have said. I believe it makes sense. I also believe that the words of the Act and the words proposed to be now inserted get too close to the old 19th century iron law of wages- the old wage fund idea which went out of any serious consideration once governments undertook the obligation for maintaining economic stability and full employment. I move: 
Omit 'inflation', substitute 'prices having regard to the state of the national economy at that time'. 
I will take only a few moments of the Committee's time at this stage of the evening to respond to the very severe and unjust misrepresentation of my amendment by the honourable member for Port 
Adelaide  (Mr Young).  Quite obviously he did not understand the amendment. I move to respond to him because he suggested that our proposition was that greater employment could be secured if wages were reduced. In his own words, he thought that we said that by this amendment a reduction in wages would enable employment to be increased. It was precisely against that proposition that the amendment was moved. Unfortunately the honourable member for Port Adelaide has not been able to get his mind out of 19th century experience. Obviously he does not understand the amendment, he does not understand the import of the clause and he does not understand the circumstances against which the amendment is directed. 
I am delighted that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is willing to consider the substance of the amendment and to consider the nature of this clause and the argument proposed in support of my amendment when an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is to be introduced into this chamber later this year. I want to deal for a few moments with what the honourable member for Port Adelaide said. We have never claimed that the way to increase employment is to reduce wages. 
-Of course not. He tried to transfer the argument to one concerning indexation and said that the Government was against wage indexation. I remind him that wage indexation, to which the Opposition is so firmly committed and which I have supported, is a short term measure but an inadequate long term wages policy. Over the 23 years that the Liberal and Country Parties were in government prior to December 1972 wages increased by more than the consumer price index. Wages increased to reflect productivity and increases in the export price index as well as the consumer price index. It ought to be realised that the new wages policy to which the honourable member for Port Adelaide, misunderstanding what was proposed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  is committed is one which at the most would only seek to maintain living standards. That is the highest aim towards which his policy is directed. We regard indexation as a short term wages measure which, when the economy gets into a position of some equilibrium we will abandon in favour of a scheme which increases real household income and increases the value of real wages. Really long term policies on indexation do not come to that position. Honourable members opposite ought to realise that, and Australia ought to be grateful that over the 23 years the Liberal and Country Parties were in government previously increases in wages and household income were greater than would have been obtained by a policy of wage indexation. The honourable member for Port Adelaide tried to shove some of his own superstitions on us. He ought to discard his superstitions into a dustbin of his own hopes. The honourable member for Port Adelaide aspires to the leadership of his own Party, but he does not have the mental capacity or the perspicacity to fill that position. He is a long way from it. 
I thank the Minister for his consideration of my amendment. I believe it will be considered later this year when he introduces amendments to the Act. The sense and spirit of the amendment will be considered very sincerely. Of course I will be here to watch it. I say in response to the honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  that we only hope that what they see as their essential long term wages policies are not put into effect in Australia. We will see that wages are increased beyond what their policies will bring. If the economy has a decent rate of economic growth and a decent rate of growth in real output per person, rising standards of living will be maintained. The proposition of honourable members opposite does not even allow that to occur. 
I shall keep the Committee for only 2 or 3 minutes, but they will be minutes spent discussing clause 13. Clause 13 proposes 2 things: It indicates that the election shall be by secret postal ballot and that where certain other conditions are specified, exceptions will apply in respect of those ballots. That is what we are talking about. I should have thought that the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was one that at least deserved serious consideration, even though the Government does not accept it in these circumstances. 
-I see the point made by the honourable member for Bendigo but without referring to the amendment I suggest that its substance would have application in respect of clause 13 had it been accepted. I hope that the spirit of that amendment will be looked at. There is one other point that I suggest the Minister examine during the course of the operation of this legislation. It is something I have mentioned to him before and I will repeat it quickly. There will be cases in which some confusion can arise in the minds of voters in union elections in those States where there are significant arbitration and industrial jurisdictions. There will be a duplicity of votes and of voting procedures that could give rise to some doubt and confusion in the minds of voters. I am referring particularly to where there are significant State jurisdictions, such as in Queensland, Western Australia and New South Wales. 
The classic  Moore  v  Doyle  case shows that voters registered in a State union can be presented with a dual set of ballot papers developed under two quite differing sets of circumstances. I hope that the Minister will look carefully at the confusion that may arise in those cases. Confusion will also arise where unions registered under State jurisidictions cover generally the same occupations as do Federal unions which have a much wider franchise than the voting procedures of the State union. There may be what were previously the same officials working out of the same office, one dealing with State awards and having a similarity to the State branch of a Federal union covering generally the same area. 
Difficulties may be found where officials were filling 2 positions in the past, elected to both positions at the same time, because of the very different and wider franchise under this Bill than is provided in the State jurisdiction. I am referring to cases where members go to a meeting and elect State officials. There may be confusion in the minds of the voters as to the officials elected by the 2 procedures, and that confusion will grow because of the difference in voting procedures. 
I merely say to the Minister that I hope he will carefully consider suggesting some complementary legislation covering the area between that covered by this legislation and the State jurisdictions where there are significant State arbitration or industrial commissions. The case is worth looking at, and I hope that the confusion does not become wider. I know that the Minister will keep the matter in mind and will treat it very diplomatically, but I suggest that it is a situation which should not be ignored. 
I shall take very few moments. What I have to say can be said at this stage rather than at the Committee stage for the reason that I do not desire to delay the passage of this Bill at that stage. The first point is one which has concerned the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  and the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  might consider it. In terms of the present scheme, that is the present reduced scheme that is operating now, will the Minister consider very sincerely and very earnestly the practical fact that the limit on the value of a home for which the grant is available ought to be raised? It is becoming a nonsense, particularly in New South Wales. New 
South Wales deserves some special help in respect of housing. That State has been hit very severely, in terms of the monetary policy, over the last number of months and Queensland has been hit to a significantly less extent. Some attempt ought be made to try to alleviate the problems in New South Wales and, on a much wider aspect, to raising the value of the home to make the grant meaningful. An amount of $22,500 - 
An amount of $22,500 for a house and land is just not an appropriate amount even under the reduced scheme. The other point I want to make relates to clause 6 of the Bill which concerns credit unions. As I understand it clause 6 removes the restrictions which were previously applied in respect of savings in credit unions for the purpose of housing. I am referring to the restrictions in terms of the amount of activity of the credit unions, the interest rate at which they made their loans available and so on. Does clause 6 mean that the loans which are available from credit unions and which they consummate themselves without other embargoes or conditions will apply for the purpose of the home savings grant? I ask this because it is an important question. One of the most quickly growing sectors of the Australian finance industry has been credit unions. I say that having regard to New South Wales. Assistance will be required in New South Wales, and to a lesser extent Queensland, for some time ahead. I notice that a new publication brought out by the Commonwealth Statistician last month dealing with credit unions' assets, liabilities, income and expenditure, reference number 5.59, states that during 1974-75 an amount of $537m was involved in loans from credit unions. The loans from credit unions in New South Wales to members represented well over 50 per cent of the Australian total. Therefore, if the restrictions on savings from credit unions are to be removed completely, that would act as a disproportionate stimulus to New South Wales, which is a large credit union State. 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation a question: Do all those loans from credit unions mentioned in the statistical bulletin to which I have referred, without other restriction as to interests rates and to the proportion of activity of credit union loans for housing etc., qualify, or could they all qualify, were they applied by a member of a credit union for housing purposes or were the savings on which the loans were made applied to housing purposes? I think it is an important question. This approach could be an important way in which the disproportionate squeeze effects on some States of Australia could be significantly alleviated. I end by saying that I am delighted to see that credit unions are to be included in the scheme. I am delighted to see that their activity in this area will enable more savings to be accumulated for housing purposes. I request the Minister to answer the question I posed. 
-The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1976 would usually be regarded as a fairly innocuous Bill but it is quite clear that the spokesman on Treasury matters for the Opposition, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  has taken the opportunity in this debate to give us another run over his conception of economic management of Australia or another little look in at the way in which he would fabricate a budget. For a few moments I shall resist the temptation to join him completely on these issues except to say this: It is incredible the extent to which the Opposition is wedded to the simple proposition that if public expenditure rises as quickly as possible that is good; if public expenditure does not rise as quickly as the honourable member would like to make it, that is necessarily bad. 
The whole philosophy and tenor of the honourable member's speech was based on the simple proposition that this Bill is unsatisfactorythe Opposition dares not vote against it, of course- because it does not propose to increase public expenditure quickly enough. I am fascinated not only at some of the honourable member's mathematics but also at his sense of history forgotten. When one looks, for example, at what was allocated to the States under this sort of legislation in previous years it is quite clear that what is given to States has to be considered in a two or three-year period. One does not always draw the line at a budgetary time, or as at 13 December, and hope that the whole of the past before that date would be forgotten. If ever there was an experiment that public expenditure itself was the way to reap economy harmony in Australia that experiment was indulged in for 3 years and that experiment was rejected because in fact it failed. 
The honourable member for Adelaide and his colleagues were responsible for introducing a new word into the Australian language. It is not the word 'stagflation', which has been used quite often- perhaps  ad nauseam.  It is not the word 'slumpflation', which also has been used. The new word which they introduced and whose effects we all felt is 'negflation' They were able for the first time in Australia, by means of public expenditure which is what this Bill is about, to secure a negative rate of growth, negative productivity, rising unemployment, rising prices and rising inflation, all at the same time. It is from that stance that the Opposition has said that this Bill is unsatisfactory and has moved a quite unctuous and meaningless amendment. I do not want to be unkind to the honourable member for Adelaide; I will resist the temptation not to deal further with his statement later. 
The substance of this Bill is very important because it deals with the preservation of the States. It is quite obvious that the Australian Labor Party, which does not want the States to exist as viable, powerful and respected entities, wishes to see this Bill rejected. It certainly finds much fault with the Bill. This Bill puts into operation 2 promises made by the Gorton Government in 1970 in respect of State debt and loans negotiated on behalf of the States. The first promise was that within a 5-year period $ 1,000m of State debt would be wiped out. The carrying out of that promise was completed last year. An amount of $ 1,000m of State debt has been wiped out. The Bill also puts into operation the second promise made in 1970, which was that those capital works requiring expenditure in respect of which the States can recoup no revenue should not be part of a Loan Council program requiring repayment with interest by the States. This Bill deals with that second proposition. About $450m of the total loan program is to be made available to the States under this proposition, which is designed to preserve and retain the States as visible, viable and respected entities in Australian life. 
I will recount history again for one moment. Between 1945 and 1970 there developed a problem which was exacerbated year by year, whereby the debt of the States rose and the debt of the Commonwealth declined. This problem reached a peak in 1970. The debt of the States rose for a number of reasons. They included the dearer money that had to be negotiated on behalf of the States, the fact that Commonwealth works were funded out of revenue while State works were not so funded, and the advantage of internal treasury bills. This meant that over that period of time the Commonwealth reduced its net debt by more than $3,000m and the States increased their debt by more than $8,000m. It was that trend which legislation similar to this Bill in 1970 was designed to reverse. That process is still being implemented. This Bill, in fact, is reversing that trend. 
While this legislation is an essential part of federalism, I ask the House to look at federalism in 2 ways- in a vertical sense and in a horizontal sense. Both of these senses are appropriate and both deserve to be considered. A vertical responsibility exists between the Commonwealth and the States in terms of federalism because, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said over and over again, the States will be required to be honest and to be responsible for raising the funds which they desire to spend. I know of State Ministers who will say that they want any amount of money to do something, but they do not want to have any responsibility for raising the money. Of course, they also have a very fixed view as to the nature of a Budget deficit that ought to be negotiated by the Commonwealth while giving the States that money. 
They are in all States and if they arrange their electorates cleverly they do very well. This measure deals partly with the vertical responsibilities of federalism. I still have some doubts about the precise way in which some of the horizontal responsibilities of federalism deserve to be negotiated. There should be an equal effect on States as a result of the operation of legislation determined in this place. There is always room for argument in this area, and I hope that some propositions with regard to this matter will be put in this House. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  who does not respect the very nature of the States, would not be interested in the proposition that there should be an equal deal for all States of the Commonwealth. It would be foreign to his thinking because, as he would admit, he is completely a centralist. This proposition is outside the parameters of his thinking in this area; it is in another paddock. 
I will put this proposition in racing parlance. In the sense of vertical responsibilities the Commonwealth can be regarded as the chief steward on the race track and when the 6 States go around the track the Commonwealth wants to make sure that they weigh in at the right weight and not four or five kilograms short. In the horizontal sense the Commonwealth can be regarded as the chief starter and when it starts the race the gates open equally for every State. This measure attempts to deal with that second proposition. It also hopes to deal, together with other measures, with that second proposition. So in the time ahead the second aspect of federalism will have to be negotiated, looked at carefully, and re-negotiated. 
I was fascinated with the cry of pauperism that came from the Opposition. This cry of pauperism, especially in regard to South Australia, is rather odd, because it is so far from the truth. South Australia has done very well in terms of receiving funds from the Commonwealth over recent years. A lot of money raised in other parts of Australia has been and is being paid to South Australia to enable that State to withdraw from the Grants Commission. It is on that basis that South Australia has been able to bring down a Budget which has been a product of the very preferential treatment given to that State by the Commonwealth in recent years. I refer to a speech made in the Legislative Council of South Australia by the  Hon.  D. H. C. Banfield, a member of the Labor Government, on 10 June this year. No doubt he is a friend and colleague of honourable members opposite. This statement comes from a member of a government in a State which says it is short of money. In a speech on Appropriation Bill No. 2, speaking on behalf of the Government  Mr Banfield  said: 
Now, in early June, it is clear that the estimate of surplus made in February was a significant understatement and that on recent trends we may expect a surplus as high as $50m. 
That amount was not all raised in South Australia. Further in his speech,  Mr Banfield  had this to say: 
At the moment, perhaps I could sum up by saying that it seems that all of the favourable influences to which I referred in February are turning out to be even more favourable than was forecast then, and that many State revenues have been very buoyant despite a general slackness in the economy. 
Those State revenues are supplied predominantly and overwhelmingly by the Commonwealth. If a State cries pauperism in this respect 6 weeks after a Minister in its own Upper House confesses to a surplus of more than $S0m, it should have another look at its arithmetic. This is a very complex matter, and it certainly has not been understood by the Government in that State. When one looks at the position in the other States one sees quite clearly that the States have not been denied funds and have done relatively well. My own State of Queensland had a surplus. New South Wales did not have to draw on its loan funds in order to support its revenue deficit to the extent that it thought it would be required to do. Neither have a number of other States, including Tasmania, had to draw on their loan funds for this purpose. So the Commonwealth supplies the funds. The States have not been doing too badly at all. I would have hoped that the honourable member for Adelaide at least would have acknowledged that fact. I regret that he has not seen fit to do so. 
I return to the other point which I was making earlier. I have made this point before and I think it needs to be made again. The funds in this Bill are part of the normal loan program. They will not be available as loans to the States but effectively as grants to the States. The division of those funds between the States follows the division of funds between the States that traditionally has been made by the Loan Council. The division of funds that traditionally has been made by the Loan Council has not been based particularly on equity; it has been based very much on historical grounds. 
Loan fund allocations are somewhat difficult to alter without the consent of all the States. When a third of those funds- over $400m- is to be made available in terms of grants, without the obligation of repayment, it is of very great benefit indeed. But when those funds then are made available as between the States according to the proportions determined by the Loan Council, almost historically, there is no attempt whatsoever to determine that the principles of horizontal equity are followed in the determination and distribution of those funds. 
I congratulate 2 States for having done very well in this Bill. Western Australia has done very well, according to the schedule to the Bill. 
-South Australia also has done very well. Historically that is the way in which it works. That was a very foolish statement by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. If anything indicates that he does not understand what this is about, that statement reflects it. It has nothing to do with an election. I said that the distribution between the States had almost its own historical lore. I would only ask that when the distribution between the States is being considered in terms of the new federalism policy so that the burdens and the benefits are distributed equally, the new arrangement concerning the Council of Inter-governmental Relations will result in the careful consideration of the distribution of these grants, which are increasing in size and which are increasing in proportion. As far as I know they are not considered precisely by any other authority- certainly not in terms of the Loan Council. 
There is one other point that needs to be made. As this legislation exists under the umbrella of federalism, I hope that consideration also will be given to an appropriate distribution of the effects of the monetary policy so that when there is either an expansion or a contraction, or there is any severe alteration in the amount of money or the volume of money available in Australia, that expansion or contraction will operate as between the States so that there is neither a greater credit squeeze in one State of Australia than another nor a greater expansion of the volume of money available in one State than there is in another. That requires, above all, the following of one simple principle. If taxation powers and taxation obligations are to be given to the States, there has to be an appropriate determination of monetary policy to follow the administration of those taxation powers and those taxation obligations. 
During the period in which the present Opposition was in power we saw that the fiscal policy was raining on a different track all the time from the monetary policy. That was the cause of some of the very great errors that were made, and they were defended by the now shadow Treasurer when honourable members opposite were in government. Fiscal policy and monetary policy were running in completely contrary directions. The then Government was spending like mad while it was squeezing money like mad. All I am saying is that if federalism is to work adequatelyit can be made to work adequately- there has to be by the Government and the Treasury and by the Reserve Bank, which would take their advice, an awareness of the effect of monetary policy in each part of the Commonwealth. 
I turn finally to the absurd amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. The amendment concerns itself with several things. It alleges that this Bill reduces in real terms the funds available to the States. It does not It helps to increase the total funds available to the States by over 15 per cent. There is not going to be that rate of inflation this year. It is not going to cause the denudement of any essential services by the States. The State of South Australia has already indicated that that will not be the case. I come to the final insult. The amendment says that the Bill will result in an increase in a number of people out of work. This is part of an allegation that has been made by supporters of a government that was able over a period of 1 8 months to secure the greatest continued drop in the Australian labour force that had been able to be secured at any time since the Depression. Over a period of 18 months, during which the available work force was to increase by over 250 000- nearly 300 000- honourable members opposite were able to reduce the number of those actually in work by nearly 100 000. Yet here they have produced a totally meaningless amendment which they hope will absolve them from everything that occurred prior to 13 December. 
This Bill deserves to be supported. It is part of an obligation that was first undertaken in 1970. The distribution of some of the funds as between the States in this Bill is not a major matter of concern. I hope that it will become a matter of concern when the federalism principles are finally worked out. But, above all, while the Opposition has moved an amendment to this Bill, it would never dare, even with the greatest sarcasm possible, to vote against the Bill and follow what would be the significant meaning of its amendment. 
-I do not intend to join the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in a discussion about education, but merely would like to make the necessary equation between what he has been speaking about and the Budget. I think the necessary equation lies in the work of Kuznets in the 1950s in which he stated the simple proposition that education means economic growth and that if more is spent on education- this has been fastened on by so many university and other authorities over the years-  ipso facto  there will be a better economic performance only on account of this fact. As the honourable member for Fremantle has pointed out quite clearly it is often the nature of the expenditure on education that needs to be examined if it is to have an effect on the broad economic parameters of any nation. That would be a matter for a discussion at a subsequent time. 
I want to discuss the Budget from a viewpoint of history- fairly recent history and history a little further distant. In looking at the recent background of the Budget, perhaps in a political sense I resist the temptation to quote again the words that were spoken by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  at Blacktown in 1972. 1 will not go to that situation but I will go to the amendment which was moved and voted on in 1971 by the Leader of the Opposition in his penultimate Budget debate as an Opposition Leader before he became Prime Minister. He had some fascinating words in that proposed amendment. He moved that the Budget be rejected, for 5 reasons, among them: because it produces no programs for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security. 
He foreshadowed his own broad attitude to economic management as determined by a Budget. We all know now that within almost 12 months of moving that amendment in order to reject the Budget of 1971 he was responsible for introducing the new experience into the Australian economic scene, the experience of negflation, one which we had never had before and one which this country had never suffered before. I define negflation in few words as a unique situation where one is able to have at the one moment a quadrumvirate of negative growth, negative productivity, rising unemployment and inflation. We had the four of them together. In his own way the Leader of the Opposition was responsible at least for improving our knowledge of the English language. 
Let us look at the situation from a little further distance in history because I think this will illustrate that almost since the days of Federation the Opposition has failed to comprehend how to examine a Budget statement. I am attracted to the words of the first Treasurer of the Commonwealth who, in introducing the first Budget into the Commonwealth in 1901 had this to say in, I suggest, a spirit of enlivened goodwill.  Sir George  Turner said: 
I do not myself claim to be an accountant - 
That was the acme of all the professions at that time- and I want to see the accounts of the Treasury kept in such a simple manner that any honourable member requiring information may always be able to get it without difficulty. 
That was a piece of advice given 75 years ago. I suggest that the simplicity of the present Budget Statement has not only been not understood but it has not even been begun to be comprehended. I have always thought that the Opposition when in government and considering a Budget displayed a chocolate-wheel mentality or regarded the Budget as a kind of chocolatewheel. The chocolate-wheel is used more in New South Wales where people gamble more avidly than in other States. You get a wheel, you throw at it every misconception, every ideological prejudice, every piece of misunderstood statistical data, and you take out what you want, make it into a budget, dress it up with some scientific form and say: 'That is our Budget'. That went on for 3 years. 
-Yes, you give it a whirl, too. That process has ended and I hope it has ended for all time. The Opposition has misunderstood 2 key features of the Budget on which I should like to join issue with Opposition members fervently and powerfully in this debate. With respect to employment, they have misunderstood and misconstrued the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in Budget Statement No. 2, the one that has been quoted over and over again, in respect of employment. Let us look at this in a simple, positive manner. The Treasurer stated: 
Employment growth then appears to be likely to be of the order of 1 to 2 per cent for the year as a whole, although a faster rate of growth- more than 2 per cent over the year- is implied. 
One might say: 'That is not enough '. I should like it to be more and there would not be anybody in this chamber who would not want it to be more. But of course things cannot be reversed overnight. Let me go back a little in history to see what the performance was in terms of employment growth over the period before the present Government came to power- not unemployment, the growth in the labour force. Bearing in mind that the labour force in Australia is reputed to grow by 1 50 000-odd per year, over the period of 18 months from June 1974 to December 1975 the work force actually in employment- forget unemployment figures- declined by nearly -100 000. This Budget is talking about a growth. The achievement before this Government came to office was a negative growth rate. We went down hill. But the ingredients of that declinethis is a central and human part of any economic management- deserve to be examined. Nearly 70 000 of the actual decline in the work force in employment consisted of males, the majority of whom were breadwinners. That fact adds a particular degree of distress to the situation. So for the Opposition to move motions in this House which talk about unemployment and how unemployment will not be reduced sufficiently quickly, bearing in mind that it as a government was able to achieve a real negative growth- a decline- in the work force, is a piece of contradictory nonsense. 
I know that Opposition members opposite and Government supporters will be happy to know that the decline in the growth of the work force seems to have plateaued and bottomed out and that there is a ray of sunshine. The latest data available on employed wage and salary earners in Australia- the figures for June of this yearwere not below but were the same as the figures for January of this year and December of last year. The decline has been halted. All honourable members know that a situation cannot be improved until a plateau has been reached. That is the position. There will be a real rate of growth in the work force. We would like it to occur quicker. But the real rate of growth in the work force is an actual and real reversal of the situation that applied until the Government came to office. 
The other fact which the Opposition seems to have forgotten is a simple one. It is nonsense to talk about economic welfare unless one remembers what is the real escalator of economic welfare. The Budget foreshadows and is based on the assumption of a 4 per cent increase in the gross domestic product over the year in real terms. When there is a total growth situation in the economy it is possible to begin to do something in respect of economic welfare or social welfare. Unless that growth occurs it is impossible to do anything real in terms of social welfare because one is merely substituting one form of expenditure for another. In other words, one form of deprivation is being substituted for another. I hope that the Opposition is aware of those matters. 
I come to the other difficulty which I believe the Opposition faces. It is the difficulty of knowing what its policy actually is. I have noted that not one word has been spoken throughout the Budget debate by honourable members opposite about taxation and nothing has been said by them about the way in which revenue would be raised and, in fact, was raised by the Labor Government. I am disturbed to note that the Leader of the Opposition seems to be adopting a policy of not finding out what is going on behind him. He has a  Deputy-  a very talented man; the representative of a Sydney seat- whose policies are running contrary to his own. 
I am reminded of the story so beautifully told by George Orwell during World War II when he was broadcasting on the British Broadcasting Commission of his own experience as a child. He said that he had a wasp that he would feed strawberry jam on a plate. As a child he got a razor blade and cut off the nether end of the wasp. But the wasp just kept on eating the strawberry jam. Of course, a thin, faint trickle of red jam came out of the nether end of the wasp. This insect did not quite realise what had befallen it until it tried to wing up and fly away. 
I suggest that that is precisely what is happening behind the Leader of the Opposition today. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  is proposing some policies and doubting a number of other policies which the Leader of the Opposition would never dare to do. I refer to a speech concerning tax indexation that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made to a New South Wales body called the New South Wales Living Standards Conference on Saturday, 28 August. Apparently he is a friend of members of that organisation. The Government's policy on tax indexation was adopted by it after some disagreement. I am delighted to know that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Went worth)  and I can claim some little success for the adoption of this policy against considerable, but always friendly opposition. At the conference on 28 August the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said: 
The Budget gives nothing to the besieged wage and salary earner. Rather it takes from them. Tax indexation was not devised to assist the worker; it was devised to assist the employers by reducing the workers ' claims on the employers for the maintenance of real wages. 
I emphasise that he claimed that tax indexation was not devised to assist the worker. I hope that those words are remembered and I hope that the significance of those words are meditated upon long and constantly by the Opposition.  Mr Jolly  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions was a member of the body that made some of the recommendations. The policy was adopted by the ACTU. At the end of 1975 the Labor Party released subterranean reports from taxation officers which tried to kill tax indexation. Tax indexation was designed to increase the disposable dollars in the pockets of Australian wage and salary earners. It was also devised in an inflationary situation to act as a guarantee that when restraint was required in terms of wages those least able to defend their position would not be thrown to the wolves. That is a mixture of the economic and the social ingredients of tax indexation. However, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has another proposition, namely, that it was not designed to assist the worker. 
Keeping in mind the wasp and being aware of the policies being enunciated behind the Leader of the Opposition, I refer again to the speech made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Of course, he does not Like the mining industry but some of his quaint economic fulminations come out in this speech. At page 8 of it he said: 
The growth of the mining industry, and exports of minerals will also mean the erosion of Australia's manufacturing industry. This happens because when export earnings are high the major overseas buyers exert pressure on Australia to raise its imports, in the name of trade balance. 
None of the major buyers of minerals from Australia are going to tolerate unfavourable trade balances for too long. Imports will have to rise in line with exports and these imports will be imports of foreign manufactured goods. 
What is the sense of that statement? The sense of it is that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition quite obviously does not like Australia to have a positive and growing trade balance because a positive and growing trade balance that is pursued perhaps in terms of the mining industry and perhaps in terms of the Utah Mining Co. represents a threat to Australia's manufacturing industries. What an incredible piece of economic rubbish and nonsense. Does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition not realise that a growing trade balance and a vital, viable, significant export industry enable standards to be retained in manufacturing industries which are subject to tariff or quota protection? Does he not realise that that is a necessary transfer that does and should occur in the Australian economy? No. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would rather return to the difficult days of the 1940s, the 1950s and the early 1960s when Australia was always on a knife's edge and a razor's edge in terms of export income. To him export income and a positive trade balance mean doom and despair for Australia's manufacturing industry. Yet he comes from one of the great manufacturing cities and centres of Australia. Without going back to read George Orwell's broadcasts of World War II, I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that he should have a look at and perhaps synchronise some of his own statements with those that are being made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
One last thing I want to mention concerns the chocolate wheel again. A consistent argument has been put on the monetary theory that if the increase in the volume of money is to be only 10 to 12 per cent as presumed on page 25 of Budget Statement No. 2, if we are going to have an average rate of inflation of that order over the year, and if there is to be a gross domestic product rate of growth of 4 per cent over the year, there is not going to be sufficient money around to see that economic production will occur, to see that the economy can go on. Does he realise that he has become more a Friedmanite than anybody else? What he has forgotten- it is only a small thing -is that it is Friedman who said that the velocity of money does not change; but it has been the experience of Australia over the years that the velocity of money can change more than is necessary to make up the difference. In fact, on some calculations I have made in respect of recent years, the velocity of money has increased in a number of years by more than 4 per cent, which would more than make up the difference that is implied in terms of the monetary strategy of the 
Budget. It increased by more than 4 per cent between 1967-68 and 1968-69, between 1969-70 and 1970-71 and, lo and behold, while Labor was in government between 1973-74 and 1 974-75. So a number of serious misconceptions have occurred. I would suggest that the advice given, given very honestly and very fairly, 76 years ago ought to be taken. 
The Budget is a simple document. One only has to read it to see what the words mean. I suggest that is the first task the Opposition should undertake. We know that in the months ahead there will be an agonising waiting time between an increase in production in Australia and an increase in demand for all those things we want to see occur. I would hope that, as with any government, flexibility will be pursued to see whether that waiting time can be shortened without disadvantage and without impairing any overall budget or economic strategy. After all, flexibility was pursued during the early 1950s, in 1961-62, in 1965-66 and even in 1974 with advantage. But the overall proposition remains the same. I would only suggest to the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  the Opposition front bench spokesman- I think he is for the moment- who is going to follow me, that he bear in mind  Sir George  Orwell's words at the beginning of this century and look at the Budget as a simple document. 
-Has the Minister for Defence seen reports that claim that the expenditure pattern of this Government on defence is the same as or similar in economic terms to that which was set by the previous Labor Government? Could the Minister, in a few words, indicate whether that is correct? 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, refers to the latest information concerning instalment credit for retail sales in Australia. Is the Minister aware that although there was little increase in the total credit available for retail sales in July the increase in the credit available for household and personal and whitegoods sales for the month of July was of the order of 8 per cent and for the year overall was of the order of 19.9 per cent? What significance does the Minister see in these details as they are related to total retail sales throughout the Commonwealth? 
-There is nothing more craven or cowardly than for a member of the Opposition who finds that things are not going satisfactorily to stand in this House and blame the Treasury, especially when the Party of which that honourable member is a member accepted the advice of the Treasury when that Party was in power and had the authority to govern. It is the members of this chamber who ultimately take responsibility for policy decisions and not the Public Service. I very sincerely draw a distinction between the attitude of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the attitude of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  The honourable member for Mackellar has stated his position openly and publicly and has not sought to find fault for its own sake. He has put forward propositions. There is a distinction between the craven and cowardly propositions that have come from the Opposition this afternoon and the propositions that have come from the Government. 
It was said by a former Chancellor of the Exchequer that that portfolio can be one of two things: It can be either dull or dangerous. During the years in which honourable members opposite were in government they certainly indicated that it was not dull. They struck fear into the heart and they stuck a skewer into the body of every Australian as far as the economic welfare of this nation is concerned. We are still recovering from those darts and from the maladministration that occurred during that period of time. I will take one or two moments to rid ourselves of one of the propositions put forward by the Opposition. It has been fondly asserted over and over again that the Government says that inflation is the cause of everything that is occurring, that inflation is the only cause. The Government has never said that. That would be a stupid and silly statement to make. It is like the story about why the cat killed the canary. The cat killed the canary for a whole host of reasons. The cat got into the room with the canary. The cat was hungry. The canary could not hop around quickly enough. The cat was given its first pail of milk to invite it into its home. So the canary was killed for a whole host of reasons which came together and resulted in its demise. There was a concatenation of events. 
So it is with the economy. There has been a whole concatenation of events and those events are events which occurred during the past 3 years. What the Government says- it is a piece of sound, commonsense thinking- is that inflation has been the principal cause but not the only cause. It accompanies a number of other causes. I want to spend one or two minutes this afternoonthat is basically all one has in which to speak in these debates- on having a look at what is called structural employment and structural unemployment. It is quite clear that the nature of the Australian work force altered in a crisis way during the past 3 years. In crises the nature of the work force always changes. It changed more during the last 3 years than at any time in Australia 's history, even including in many ways the Depression and even including the period from 1944-1946- the period at the end of the last war and the beginning of the reign of peace. The crises, the structural imbalances, the distortions that occurred in the Australian work forceunemployment is a function of that- are greater than those that occurred in the transition from war to peace at the end of World War II. I am not going to take the opportunity to scarify the Commonwealth Statistician. I intend simply to refer to some of the data which the Statistician publishes. That data makes it quite clear that the seeds of those difficulties with respect to unemployment today were sown between 1972 and 1975. The question to be asked by a country that is concerned with unemployment is an important one. It is: To what extent is that unemployment due to structural faults or, in the more precise language of these days, to what extent is an increase in demand for labour in Australia sticky with respect to demand or to what extent will an increase in demand continue to reflect itself in increased productivity instead of an increase in demand for labour? They are the questions that have to be answered. The germ of the answers to those questions can be found in the crisis that developed in the Australian work force during the past 3 years. 
So I ask this question, which I believe to be an important question to ask: What is structural unemployment? That is what we are dealing with. It is simply unemployment which occurs when the work force experiences an inability to respond to an increase in the gross domestic product or to an increase in total production within the Australian community. There is another kind of structural unemployment which occurs when labour cannot be satisfied because of its unavailability. That is the structural unemployment that occurred in Europe after World War II. Because Germany and other countries in Europe were able to overcome this second type of difficulty quite early they were able to get their economic development under way quite quickly. It is obvious on the most rudimentary analysis that there are severe structural problems in 
Australia which have developed during the last 3 years. Nobody with any common sense looking at an historic development or a trend development can draw a line across the page and say: 'There is 13 December 1975. Everything that occurred before then we will forget. It is in the 
East. It has had no effect on the events which ave occurred subsequent to 13 December'. That would be a stupid proposition; yet that is the unstated assumption of what the Opposition has been saying over and over again this afternoon. 
Let me look at what that crisis situation is that developed in the nature of the Australian work force. It is the allocation of workers in the work force that determines its capacity to generate full employment. I refer to a very excellent work by  Dr Keating  based upon public data published by the much maligned Australian Statistician. From inormation on the work force between 1910 and 1961 and further data on the period after 1961 the position is quite obvious. In the period of the great depression from 1929 to 1931 the decline in the total manufacturing work force was 90 000. In the transition period subsequent to World War II, from 1944 to 1946, the decline in the manufacturing work force- it is a very important part of the total work force- was only 35 000. During the last 18 months, a period during which the Australian Labor Party was in power, the decline in the manufacturing work force was nearly 3 times that which occurred during the transition at the end of World War II. It was an absolute decline of 100,000. So a very severe structural imbalance developed in the work force which the country is still trying to get out of. I demonstrate it in one other way. 
They went on the dole. The Labor Government was the one that put them on the dole. Let me illustrate what I am saying. A misallocation of resources is reflected ultimately in unemployment. During the 18 months before the present Government came to power, of all the sections of private enterprise only one expanded its capacity to create employment. I refer to the Statistician's bulletin No. 6.12. The only private enterprise sector that expanded during the last 18 months or so of the Labor Government was that sector engaged in hotels, amusements, personal services and so on. Every other production sector of the community declined. That is an illustration of the structural difficulties with which the Labor Government left the present Government. It would be foolish in the extreme to fail to acknowldge that position. There are signs that those misallocations which are reflected in the work force have been altered. The distorted growth, for example, in terms of hotels and amusements has altered. The decline in the work force has stopped. It has plateaued. and I hope that we move quickly to a very quick rise. At least the work force has ceased decreasing. 
So during the period ahead one would like there to be a quicker demand for labour than is being demonstrated now, but I hope it is remembered that because of tariff distortions and inflation distortions there has been a basic misallocation of resources which has made it difficult to generate full employment again. Let it be quite clear that unless the production and service sectors of the work force came into balance it would be impossible to gain full employment again. The Labor Government left us with the position in which it was quite clear from both the nature of the work force and the nature of the economy which that work force reflected that full employment just could not have been a possibility under Labor's own administration. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Speaker, I give  notice that the next sitting I shall move: 
That acknowledging the vital humanitarian and strategic obligations of Australian foreign policy, this House affirms the need to maintain and to promote friendly and harmonious relations with Indonesia and asserts that only in the very gravest circumstances should it allow insurgencies in former European territories to become a weapon to promote ill will between Indonesia and Australia. 
Want of Confidence in the Government 
My question which is directed to the Prime Minister concerns the nature of Australia's relations with China. Is the Prime Minister aware that when the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea visited China recently he was welcomed with various greetings which referred to his country as now being released from colonial aggression? Most specifically, in the editorial columns of the Peking  People's Daily,  as reported by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, verified by it and uncontested at this stage, there was this gem: 
The century of untold sufferings from colonial aggression, oppression and plunder ended in the proclamation of independence last September. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Will he consider making an appropriate response to what I consider a gratuitous insult to Australia and to tens of thousands of Australian citizens who have lived and worked for many years in Papua New Guinea? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister or to the Acting Minister for National Resources. Can the Government ensure that in any decisions it makes in relation to Fraser Island it will use principles which have universal application to all developments, that it will consider carefully the effects on all other mining and development if those decisions are applied equally throughout Australia, that it will remember that the ultimate environment in Australia are the households which, for a proper and happy functioning, require people to be employed and to be certain of their future and finally that it will look with the greatest scepticism at the vague and imprecise propositions in the Fraser Island report concerning compensation and the serious understatement of the economic and social consequences if mining were to be stopped forthwith? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I have 10 minutes in which to make my contribution. I am always delighted to be able to speak on a Bill to approve the allocation of funds as determined by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I have been especially delighted to be able to do so over the last 5 or 6 years. It was a long battle to get Queensland to become a claimant State and to go to the Grants Commission, as it did, from 1 965 to 1 97 1 . It is rather a paradoxical fact of life that the last State to become a claimant State before the Grants Commission is the only one remaining as a claimant State before the Commission now. I would not suggest that that position will remain for too long on the Australian economic scene. I suggest that, before many years have elapsed, Tasmania, South Australia and, in certain circumstances, Western Australia will look once again at the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I believe that they ought to look at it rather more quickly than they might be inclined to indicate at the moment. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission has existed for more than 40 years. It is an economic body which always deserves a quite special tribute because there is no other institution or economic mechanism like it in any other federation in the world and there is no other economic mechanism anywhere in the world which has been so successful, by its efforts, by its advice and by its investigations, in developing horizontal equality among the various parts of a nation. By that I simply mean that the characteristics of Australia in this respect may be described in this way: There is less difference, in terms of living conditions and standards, expectations of standards and the services to which people have a right as citizens of a State, between people living in different parts of Australia than exists between people in any other country. I believe that this is a very great tribute to bodies such as the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
The Government obviously has felt that the Commission is important, as the Grants Commission represents the fall-back position for the new federalism on which the Federal Government depends. We all know that in any new arrangement a great deal of political footwork is required. A great deal of political footwork is operating at present under the new federalism and under the proposed new federalism. So it will always be. But the neutral corner to which the States will be able to go and where they will be able to make their appeals is occupied by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I hope that this body continues and that it continues in its present form. 
For various Australian States, the Commonwealth Grants Commission has been a boon over many years. It was a boon for Tasmania in the 1930s. It was a boon for South Australia in the 1930s, the 1940s and most of the 1950s. It was a boon for Western Australia for many years. Some States have come into the Grants Commission; other States have withdrawn from it. But it has always been acceptable. I believe that it is a tribute to this House and to the Parliament that no grant recommended by the Grants Commission has ever been questioned and that legislation seeking to enact such a grant has always been passed without any attempt at amendment. In its way, that fact is a tribute to the nature of federalism in Australia as well as a tribute to this House. 
I believe that a quick passing comment has to be made upon the new technique for determining the grants which is involved in the report with which this legislation is concerned and the previous report. The new technique for determining the assistance which the Commission has divined, if I may put it that way, has been to examine in each category of revenue that is available to a State- such as betting taxes, land taxes and payroll tax- the revenue effort of the claimant State compared with that of the standard States. In addition to that, the new method involves determining the expenditure required in a claimant State for it to have standards of schools, hospitals, or whatever, similar to those in the standard States. So the expenditure effort is determined. Those efforts are averaged in order to determine the grant that is to be given to the State. That is a different technique from and is rather better than the one that was utilised for many years, in which the Budgets of the standard States were compared with those of the claimant States. Budgets were adjusted appropriately. Budget expenditures of claimant States that were hidden or that were loaded were taken out of or added to those Budgets so as to make them comparable with those of the standard States. So, a deficit per person in a claimant State was adjusted to be similar to a deficit per person in a standard State. 
It is worthwhile dwelling on those 2 methods for one or two moments, for the simple reason that as long as the Budget method was utilised States could always say that a determination of the Grants Commission resulted in it imposing its own conditions on a claimant State. As I recall, for many years Treasurers of Western Australia were most adept at saying: 'We do not want to raise this tax, but the Grants Commission has told us to raise it. It examined our Budget. We are a claimant State before the Grants Commission. We are raising the tax not because we want to do it but because the Federal Treasurer in Canberra is causing this to happen through the people whom he has appointed to the Grants Commission are who are saying that we should raise this tax'. That was always a nonsense argument. The new method of calculation introduced by the Grants Commission at least strips the availability of a propaganda exercise of that type from any State Treasurer. I believe that that is very good. 
I point out, as a piece of history, that there was a famous Treasurer in Tasmania, Dwyer-Gray, who held that office for many years. He built his whole political ethos and campaign on being able to belt the Federal Government as Treasurer of a claimant State. Any pressure that was on him to raise State taxes was always blamed on the Grants Commission and the Federal Government. It so happened that very many years ago hearings of the Grants Commission concerned with Tasmania were held in capital cities other than Hobart because the Grants Commission was too frightened to go to Tasmania and retreated from holding hearings there. At least those days have passed, and the excuse and the mechanisms which were available to a State Treasurer to pursue such a propaganda campaign have passed from the scene also. 
In the short time that is available to me, I wish to make several points and one or two suggestions. It may be thought that the Grants Commission, being concerned with developing equality among the States, does all the investigations that are necessary. It does not. It deals only with fiscal equalisation- an equalisation in terms of public services available from public moneys. I suggest that one reason which has given rise to that misunderstanding is that people think that the Grants Commission deals with total equalisation among the States. That is not so. It cannot deal with total equalisation among the States insofar as it does not deal with tariffs and those distributions of resources in Australia that derive from the external affairs power. In the early 1930s, the Grants Commission wanted to look at tariffs. There was insufficient evidence for it to do so. I suggest that, with the help of the Industries Assistance Commission, it ought to look at the redistribution effects which come from tariffs and quotas in Australia and it ought to see what exporting parts of Australia are enabling high standards of living to be attained, pursued and retained in those parts of Australia where most of the work force is protected by tariffs and quotas. This is a valuable mechanism, and the Grants Commission ought to be invited to look at that aspect. I hope that some of the States which give evidence to the Grants Commission will require it to look at that. 
The second point I want to make- in 30 seconds- is that the Grants Commission does not look at the equalisation of monetary conditions among the States. I request the Reserve Bank to consider looking at the equalisation of monetary conditions and volume of money among the States so that when there is a great change in the volume of money in Australia some States are not squeezed much more than others and some States are not allowed to enjoy a much more lax position than others. That would be a matter for the Reserve Bank, but it falls with the purview and the kind of consideration which is available to the Grants Commission. I intended to talk about other aspects,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I dare not do so, because a little later I would like to say something about Fraser Island. I hope that the Grants Commission continues. It should continue. It is a quite unique institution which exists only in the Australian federal scene. Insofar as it is able to widen its purview and consider equalisation not only in terms of fiscal matters but also in terms of those transfers of resources that go with the possession of the trade power and in terms of the transfer of monetary responsibilities so as to equalise those between one part of Australia and another it could have a welcome widening of its own present activities, which are extremely valuable to Australia and of which I would suggest in the immediate years to come more States than one will be very anxious and very ready to take advantage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-There was one quaint assumption underlying the speech made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  He seemed to think that unless the mining was stopped completely Fraser Island would be blown away or would no longer exist. He is completely unaware that, due to the natural forces which occur from time to time, cyclones and wind blows hit the island. As much devastation is caused by the winds which habitually hit parts of the island as would be caused by the mining, which was going to cover 0.9 per cent of the area of the island. I believe that that ought to be understood; it seems to have been forgotten. I do not accept for one moment that the alternatives were either taking this action or the island being washed away. The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  will acknowledge that in certain circumstances parts of the island may be split off. The honourable member knows that that is quite likely to occur. In those circumstances, this report would no longer be able to refer to this being the largest sand island in the world, and therefore an island that is completely unique and about which something should be done. Why not change that a little and say that some other island is the smallest sand island in the world and we ought to do as much to save it as to save the largest sand island in the world? The logic of that position rather escapes me. 
However, I do understand and appreciate the excruciatingly difficult decision that the Government has had to make. Decisions have been required by those who are interested in living standards obtained through mining. A decision has been put upon the Government by the nature of this report, which has recommended that the mining be stopped forthwith. I am concerned about the consequences of the recommendations in the report and the investigations referred to in it. We have been asked to look very closely at the recommendations. The environmental inquiry should be concerned with the total environment. I want to consider whether it is concerned with the total environment. The total environment consists not only of people being able to walk around sand dunes with trees on them but also of people having decent living standards within their own households. On that basis, the report completely ignored any valid investigation. Let me read, first of all, the definition of 'environment' which activated the minds of the commissioners. On the first page of the report it is stated that the environment- .... includes all aspects of the surroundings of man, whether affecting him as an individual or in his social groupings, and 'environmental' has a corresponding meaning. 
That is pretty vague, but it would seem to cover almost everything that can exist- the whole surroundings of man. Having said that in its definition of 'environment', the report has completely ignored anything to do with the household environment of the people concerned directly and indirectly in the area. In order to see the vagueness of the propositions in the report, let us consider the recommendations. I will deal with the second recommendation, to which the honourable member for Maribyrnong referred. How do honourable members like this for a precise injunction in relation to action by a Government? The second recommendation states: 
Appropriate economic and other assistance be given to the extent that adverse regional economic effects follow the implementation of Recommendation 1. 
That is the end of the commissioners' concern. It goes no further, and that is the nature of the report. It is a totally inadequate report because it has denned 'environment' in a certain way. Sometimes we forget that in this world the environment exists for man and man does not exist to serve the environment. Yet the nature of this report seems to accept the second proposition and not the first. 
I have been a little concerned about the report. I acknowledge the difficulties of the Government, but I say quite clearly and quite categorically that the report has seriously and gravely underestimated the effects on the precise surroundings and living conditions of many hundreds of people, not only in Maryborough and 
Wide Bay but also extending far beyond Wide Bay. I am concerned also about the effect of the report and its recommendations on mining in Australia. One has to acknowledge the simple fact that the most productive, the most efficient and the greatest wealth-producing industry in Australia is mining. Without the mining industry being able to expand and develop its export income, the people working in factories- for example, the motor car factories in the electorate of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)-  would not be able to receive the wages and the effective subsidy equivalent of those wages which they presently receive. The honourable member smiles. He has an enigmatic smile such as one would see on the face of those without responsibility. Those people could not have received the standard of living to which they are at present accustomed were it not for the export income increasingly being earned from mining activities in Australia. So I am concerned, and any Australian has to be concerned, about the difficulty that this decision will produce for a very great industry and for people who would benefit from the industry. 
In the minutes available to me I want to look at one or two matters in the report that deserve closer analysis. I turn to that part of the report that deals with the direct and indirect effects of mining. An undertaking is given that once a decision is made appropriate compensating economic measures will be taken. They are going to be difficult, they are going to have to be long term, they are going to have to be persistent, and they are going to have to be unique. I turn to one part of the report that deals with these measures, because it deals with the living conditions of people. I refer to page 170 of the report which contains a summary of the estimated effects of this mining on regional income. 
The report deals with the direct effects and indirect effects and quotes an article by McColl and Throsby which appeared in the  Economic Record  of June-September 1972. In that article they say that the induced effects are only 20 per cent above what the direct effects are. That is a piece of nonsense. If the article had been examined closely they would have seen at page 1, speaking in terms of the regional effects, this passage: 
Important components of these impacts are the multiplier effects on output, incomes and employment in the region which are not usually counted as benefits at the national level. 
The whole tenor of the earlier speech by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was to quote the economic effect of this mining as its contribution to national income at the national level. The regional effects, the Statewide effects, have been imprecisely and very inadequately dealt with. I suggest that comes through increasingly in the report. 
The report deals with the regional economic effects, which are concerned with the most intimate environment of all, on pages 1 73 to 1 75. In other words the report discusses in one and three-quarter pages the regional economic effects without mentioning one figure, one dollar sign or one estimate whatever. Yet a few pages earlier the report states that the induced effects, on an inadequate analysis- it admits itself to be an inadequate analysis- amount to only 20 per cent in addition to direct effects. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay, who has practical experience in this area, has pointed out that at least 300 people are directly affected and 700 people are indirectly affected. We know that there are 2 States of Australia whose citizens have depended for many years for their living conditions on the ripple and feed-back effects of mining. This has been the case in Western Australia, which has had and is having a great period of prosperity. The prosperity in Western Australia is due not to the feed-back effects of rural industry- I realise I might offend rural people when I say that- but to the feed-back effects of mining. The multiplier effects of mining are now very great in the community in which mining operates. In Queensland, which was a long backwater of Australia but which came to the forefront and did very well from the late 1960s and 1970 onwards, the domestic economic effects in terms of job opportunities resulting in full employment were experienced when the rest of Australia did not experience such opportunities. Household incomes rose more quickly there than they did in the rest of Australia. Those effects derived completely from the ripple of mining operations within that State. 
I look in that context and from that experience to the position of mining on Fraser Island. The ripple effects of that mining are great and I hope they will not be under-estimated. That very fact indicates the difficulty that the Government is facing. The Government is facing a very great difficulty in that it has to decide what to do in order to compensate for what has happened there. Of course, that is going to involve money. There has always been the cynics who have said: 'Of course, money can buy anything'. There are those people who have said: 'No fortress is impregnable up to the gates of which an ass can be led laden with gold'. That is the position which the Government faces at the moment. 
I repeat that the difficulty that the Government faces is simply this: It has to decide what kind of compensating action to undertake. I would suggest that reafforestation cannot substitute for what is being done by the mining industry itself. I have accounts here from the mining companies of their expenditures, not in terms of wages but in terms of current expenditures. They are not capital expenditures. One company was involved in an expenditure of over $7m last year, and another company was involved in an expenditure of several million dollars less. That is not something to be put aside lightly or easily. 
The other difficulty that the Government faces is this: This was not a mining venture on which short term expectations were built. Rather long term expectations were built. The honourable member for Wide Bay has illustrated very well that people bought houses or built houses. They set themselves up in certain living conditions because of the long term expectations. One of the companies expected to be mining for more than another 20 years. Another one expected to be there for a few years from now. But 20 years plus is a long period of time. This illustrates the exquisite difficulty facing the Government. 
What I am concerned about every time I look through this report is that it has ignored those difficulties completely; it has not dealt with them. I am concerned that the report has not sought to deal with the difficulties. All the report says in relation to these things is that no doubt some appropriate economic measures can be taken. What a general qualitative proposition that is; it would be inadequate in any report. A great head of steam has been built up in relation to it. A great deal of propaganda was conducted in relation to it. Some unkind soul- it was Kingsley Martin- has said that you cannot sell propaganda unless you have the proper geese. I would suggest that sometimes on environmental issues that might be an appropriate motto to be adopted by some people. 
I appreciate the difficulty that the honourable member for Wide Bay faces. He faces an 80 per cent to 90 per cent downturn in activity. He is concerned with the most intimate environment of all. The effects will go much beyond the electorate of Wide Bay; they will go throughout the length and breadth of Queensland. I would say that if the Government is going to look at measures, it should not take the advice of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who talked about substituting structural assistance schemes and so on. These schemes are not appropriate here. They are schemes appropriate for a government floundering around trying to find something to substitute for the products of its own mismanagement. That is not appropriate to this measure. So what is needed are compensating economic measures. They will have to be long term and will have to apply in terms of the region itself. But whatever compensating measures are taken which will affect people, there will be a net detrimental effect on the national income. Much of this will apply in terms of export income forgone and those transfer effects that help to support large parts of Australia which of their nature are unable to compete with the rest of the world. 
-The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill may have aroused widespread debate and interest amongst the Australian community in the past 5 months but it certainly did not arouse a very widespread sense of understanding or interest amongst members of the Opposition. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  seemed to be the only one interested in what was being said. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  might have imagined it was an immigration debate for all the interest he was taking. But there was one aspect of the propositions put by the Opposition in the debate which characterises most of their contributions in this House. Members of the Opposition always have to organise their propositions in a litany of hate. If one followed what they said, it was this: They dislike the provisions in this Bill, but in terms of disliking those provisions they made it quite clear that they dislike pre-eminently the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, they dislike the miners and they dislike the Government. They had a special sense of vitriol for members of the Country Party, whom I presume can take care of that little proposition by themselves. Opposition members always imagine that reciting a litany of hate is a substitution for a rational discussion of what should be a very important and rational Bill. 
This is one of those Bills which are only understood when seen in terms of their details. The details of the Bill will in fact verify its validity. An attempt to understand the details of the Bill will verify the sincerity of those who take it in their turn to criticise it. It was quite clear that the details of the Bill were neither understood nor comprehended by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  and I will deal with that in the course of my remarks. Might I spend a moment making a short defence of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  although I am sure he will make a defence for himself. He is used to doing that. On 1 1 November the Minister made a very comprehensive Press statement in which he made clear the 4 areas in which he claimed he was going to introduce significant amendments to this legislation. Those amendments have been moved. We shall wait until debate of this legislation at the Committee stage to see to what extent those amendments have been understood. 
I am delighted for a number of reasons to be associated with this measure. Land legislation has always been of pre-eminent and very great significance in Australia. In fact, in the 19th century the principal debates in the parliamentary assemblies of Australia were always over land legislation. Such legislation made and broke governments. It put oppositions in and governments out. Land characterised 2 things- the distribution of wealth in the community and also the nature of the culture of the community. The history of Australia in the 19th century in terms of the States is characterised by the history of those parliamentary assemblies in terms of land legislation. I hope that the significance of this legislation, which is going to apply very sensitively and appropriately to the Northern Territory, can be seen in that light 
Land has introduced words into the language. This land Bill will introduce new words into the Australian language. I believe that it will also introduce a new sense of culture, of wealth and of responsibility among many people who are going to have to deal with this legislation. We ask only one thing, that is, that in order to make this legislation work the whole matter be approached in a spirit of commonsense and of balance. Unless it is approached in that way it will not work. There has to be a sense of goodwill and of sincerity about this legislation. Five principles to apply in respect of Aboriginal land legislation have been made quite clear in the Woodward report. I believe that those principles underline the spirit of this legislation. 
A spirit of simple justice animates the Government's purpose in introducing this legislation. The Government has introduced this legislation knowing that there has to be social harmony, and that is enshrined in this land legislation. The Government knows that the holding of land is crucially important to those who are economically and socially depressed. From the other side of the world words such as 'proletariat' and lumpenproletariat' have derived primarily from those who lived in cities and in large areas of population but who did not have land. As those words have entered our vocabulary, so we hope this legislation will introduce a new vocabulary in terms of experience in the Northern Territory. This legislation was introduced because people needed to be provided with a sense of identity and, not least of aU, in order to make Australia's position in the world better understood. It is quite clear that in the 1950s and 1960s and in the early 1970s attitudes in Australia towards land and towards Aboriginal rights for land had a way of being quickly ventilated in the United Nations. So Australia 's position in the world will be judged also by the nature of this legislation and the spirit of goodwill with which it is approached. 
I can only compare the introduction of this legislation with one other experience in Australian life. I believe that it represents the introduction of a new sense of law and order- a new province of law- in the same way that industrial legislation that was introduced in Australia in the late 19th century and early 20th century represented a new province of law and order. There are many parallels between that industrial legislation and the legislation that has been introduced here. One only has to go through the procedures, and the une and writ of authority that are enshrined in this legislation to see that socially it is as significant as was the new province of law and order in which Australia was a leader in the world. I believe that the significance of this legislation ought to be understood, having aU those things in mind. 
The Government does not flee from the proposition that this legislation contains an exquisite difficulty. Of course there is an exquisite difficulty and that difficulty is in representing 2 cultures and in synchronising the rights of those 2 cultures. I believe clause 70 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill seeks to do that. It does not seek to submerge one culture in what would be understood to be our culture. So it ought to be understood in regard to any difficulties which are claimed to exist with this legislaion that the legislation seeks to synchronise the 2 cultures. A recognition of legitimate rights to land, not by European tradition but by Aboriginal tradition, are enshrined in this legislation. Many experts around Australia have indicated the processes whereby that right to land should be exercised. These processes are different from those which we have understood to apply. This legislation has gone out of its way to recognise those new principles, and unless they are recognised in fact and understood in fact the legislation will fail. So there needs to be understanding, a sense of sincerity and a sense of very great sensitivity in relation to this legislation. 
It is in that sense that I refer- I believe rather sadly- to a copy of a press release which was put on my desk just a little before I came into the chamber. It was released by a gentleman called Eames from the Central Land Council in Alice Springs. It refers to a member of this House and a senator in the other place who are very highly respected by supporters of the Government. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is very highly respected, as is  Senator Kilgariff.  I do not believe that it makes for a sense of sensitivity or understanding when words such as those contained in the Press statement are issued by the solicitor for the Central Land Council, remembering that the land councils are the centres of authority and power in this legislation. I shall deal with that dynamic in a moment. The final paragraph of this Press statement states: -If Calder and Kilgariff have any courage then their campaign on behalf of rnining and pastoral interests will cause them to vote against the land rights bill. 
He may be disappointed. The Press statement continues: 
They will be the only people who will do so and Aborigines in the Northern Territory will quickly judge the motive behind their gutter campaigns. 
In the introduction of legislaton which requires sympathy and understanding for the Australian people I do not believe that those are the kinds of words and sentiments that ought to be used against members of Parliament from the precise Territory in which the legislation is going to find effect. If ill-will develops on account of statements such as this the ill-will will lie with people such as Eames who have issued those statements. 
In the 10 minutes that are available to me I shall consider the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. In every Bill there is a dynamic and in every piece of legislation there is a part of that legislation which enshrines the allocation of power and authority. It is quite clear that this Bill depends upon trusts. It depends upon councils. I want to refer to the future requirements of the legislation, in fact, those which ultimately will judge the success of what is being done today. The councils are the essential dynamic of this legislation. They are a new concept. They are also a source of enormous power. So one has to be careful to ensure that that power is carefully, fruitfully and correctly exercised. I refer to clauses 24 and 26 of the Bill in order to make clear what that power happens to be. Clause 24 sub-clause (2) makes it clear that the Aboriginal councils will hold very great power in respect of conciliation procedures. Clause 24 sub-clause (3) makes it clear that ultimate authority will rest with the councils in the implementation of this legislation. I refer in particular to clause 26(1), which states: 
Subject to this Act, a Land Council may do all things necessary or convenient to be done for or in connexion with the performance of its functions and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, may - 
I believe this is a very great power- 
give lawful directions to Land Trusts holding land in its area concerning the performance of their functions; 
That is the key point in terms of the authority contained in this Bill. Therefore, the functions of the councils are going to be the crucial element. 
I was pleased to note that one of the amendments which the Minister has moved and to which the Opposition has taken exception requires the land councils not only to ascertain and to express the opinion of Aborigines but also to obtain knowledge of the wishes of the Aborigines whom they represent. An added and very important requirement is to be placed upon the land councils so that they do not become overwhelming and overweening bureaucratic organisations. We know that the land councils must be sufficiently large to have the expertise to represent the people whom they represent and to order the events within their communities. We also know that they should be sufficiently close to the traditional holders who will be determined not to be separate and distinct from them. That flexibility, in terms of the working out of those 2 principles, will ultimately measure, I believe, the success of this legislation and the ability of the land councils to do what they say they can do. 
Therefore, I suggest that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in accordance with clause 20 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, should divide the Northern Territory into at least 2 areas and establish Aboriginal land councils for each area. It may be that in the long run the Minister will have to exercise flexibility in the operation of clause 20 ( 1 ) of the legislation which refers to the numbers of land councils which are appropriate. The size, the number and the ability to function of the land councils are the heart and soul of this legislation. They will determine the writ of authority and respect which will go with the implementation of this legislation. 
I turn to clause 19 (2) (b) which deals with the purposes for which the land will be used. It is quite clear that the land can be used on the authority of the land councils through the Trust for a variety of commercial purposes. I hope that in the long run the use to which the traditional land will be put will testify to the success of the legislation. Clause 19 (2) (b) states that the land could be: for use in the conduct of a business by the Aboriginal, the Council, or Association, not being a business in which a person who is not an Aboriginal has an interest that entitles him to share in, or to a payment that varies in accordance with, the profits of the business. 
This clause enshrines the future interests of the traditional Aboriginal land. It will have force only in accordance with the self-motivation of those who represent the recipients of this land. The development of co-operative enterprises will measure the extent to which this clause has force. In any sense whatsoever it is the key to this legislation. It is the dynamic of this legislation. 
I wish to refer quickly to 2 other matters in the 5 minutes that are left to me. The speech of the honourable member for Hughes makes clear that the Opposition cannot get away from its hatred of the mining industry. It dislikes the mining industry almost as much as it seems to dislike the National Country Party and, of course, the Liberal Party. Let me make it quite clear that the ultimate prosperity of the Northern Territory and the ability of its people to have a high standard of living will depend on the vitality, the expansion and the development of the mining industry. Nobody in this House wants the mining industry to destroy the life of any person or any group or any traditional group of people in the Territory. That is against the spirit and the sense of the legislation. On the other hand, one has to face facts. On occasion, one has to have doubts. I refer, for example, to Borroloola. I have seen maps of the claims for traditional land situated between the proposed lead zinc mining development at Borroloola and the  Sir Edward  Pellew Islands. I have seen the maps which coincide with the proposed pipeline to the coast on areas which are claimed as Aboriginal land. If one has common sense, one will see that if mining is prejudiced unjustly, everybody will lose. I make a comment in passing which will not receive universal support from this side of the House. I hope we do not have the stoppage of too many efficient mining operations, such as the operation on Fraser Island. 
The authority to consent agreements, as contained in clauses 39, 40 and 41, will be retained in the Bill. The requirements for enterprises such as the Mereenie field to enter into agreements, if the gas which is there is developed, will be retained. But there will also be a judgment as to whether undue or unfair conditions are being placed upon those agreements. A judgment will have to be made by the Parliament and by the Minister. But the first judgments, the important and significant judgments, must be made by the land councils. 
I refer to one matter which seems to have escaped the attention of the Opposition with regard to the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory is moving towards Statehood and it would be ludicrous to deny the Territory legitimate rights of legislation in areas which, it is understood, would be controlled by the Territory. On the other hand, in the spirit of the 1967 referendum and in the spirit of statements that have been made, a significant and an overweeningif I might use that word- authority must be retained by this House. I am delighted that the Government, in order to manifest its goodwill, has decided that a parliamentary committee should be established to oversee the operation of this legislation and to report on positive moves made in Canberra and in the Northern Territory between now and 3 1 May next year. This will not mean an end to the measurement of the adequacy of the legislation, both in Canberra and in the Northern Territory. However, a first report is due by that date. 
If anything attests to the goodwill and the sense of the Government that does. The committee can have any matters referred to it by the Minister. It can determine the adequacy of the clauses contained in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill relating to the identification of the traditional owners of land and the means of establishing the views of such owners to the satisfaction of the relevant land council. The committee will be a joint committee of both Houses of the Parliament. For the Opposition to try to whip up a degree of hate, not against the Government but against the Northern Territory having in mind those provisions is, I believe, unjust and unfair. 
Tonight, in 5 minutes, I also wish to comment about a newspaper editorial which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of Wednesday, 17 November. The editorial refers to certain remarks which were alleged to have been made in relation to China. The appropriate sentence of the editorial states: 
This is not to endorse the rigid anti-communist line ...  Mr Wentworth  . . . and  Mr Cairns,  of Queensland. 
The  Age  has often been guilty of abysmal ignorance in relation to many of its policies and attitudes. It is wrong in this case. It has perpetrated an error and I request that it not continue to perpetrate this error. I have requested evidence for oft quoted principles in relation to our China policy. I have done this in a way which is not intended to criticise or to scarify. But I have requested evidence for oft quoted principles which underlie diplomatic attitudes which have been proposed by the  Age.  The 2 principles for which I seek evidence are these: It has been stated that China has a policy now of promoting stability in South East Asia which is similar to our policy. I ask: What is the evidence for that policy? I am aware that insurgency is being promoted quite deliberately in Burma, northwest and south-west Thailand and on the border of Malaysia. I am aware that China is responsible for promoting insurgency there. In the face of that evidence I merely request evidence for the principle that China's policy is related to a similar view held by Australians or others on stability in South East Asia. Where is the evidence? The  Age  may be able to produce the evidence. I ask for it. 
The second point with which I want to deal in the few minutes available to me is this: I refer to the non-interference principle which has been promoted by China and accepted by the  Age  in a number of its comments. The non-interference principle has been that China has said: 'We will let government to government relations be quite separate and distinct from party to party relations'. That principle has been quoted over and over again and it is then presumed to represent a new era of peace and goodwill in South East Asia for which China has a predominate, searching and apparently a sincere role. I cannot see the evidence. When I listened to broadcasts which are made continually from southern China promoting insurgency I wonder whether the  Age  and other journals are aware of the fact that the activities of the Communist Party in China  visavis  Communist parties in other parts of the world are distinct from attitudes between the Chinese Government and other governments. If that principle is stated without anyone seeking evidence for it, all it does is merely allow China a free hand through insurgency movements to promote instability in South East Asia. So when the Age criticises people for taking a rigid anticommunist line, I hope it realises that any line ought to depend upon the evidence which supports it. If it is rigid, conservative anticommunism to ask for the evidence which underlay principles which have been supported by the  Age  then I believe that that is a rational and sensible attitude to take. What I have said is not intended to criticise. Nor is it intended to scarify any policy or proposal. My queries are balanced. I hope that they will be taken as such. They should be put at nothing less and nothing higher. In this case the  Age  in its editorial has been guilty of abysmal ignorance. It has based its editorial on quite inadequate evidence and information. I hope that if the  Age  refers to this matter in the future it will not continue to wallow in what has become an abysmal ignorance in relation to some of its foreign policy comments, especially in its editorials. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that in all future environmental investigations involving industrial or mining projects any recommendation to terminate, phase out or to alter the projects be rejected unless the following considerations are satisfied: 
the national economic effects of the recommendations have been evaluated in terms of their detrimental effects on employment, income and population support; 
the regional and State economic effects of the recommendation have been evaluated in terms of their detrimental effects on employment, income and population support; 
where an export industry is involved, the ability of that industry, for example the uranium industry, to contribute towards the balance of trade and the balance of payments has been evaluated; and 
alternative and viable proposals have been made to compensate the industry or project recommended to be terminated or to be phased out. 
I speak to the fourth amendment of the battery of amendments moved by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  It refers to subclause (4) of clause 3. This is an interesting clause. The Government proposes in this Bill, which is an amending Bill, to amend the clause in the original Bill. I believe that the Government's amendment is correct and that the Opposition's proposed amendment is incorrect. It is incorrect for some very viable and very worthy reasons. The sub-clause in the original Bill read as follows: 
A reference in this Act to the granting of a rnining interest in respect of Aboriginal land shall be read as not including a reference to the renewal of a mining interest that was in existence when the land became Aboriginal land. 
It appears to me that in that clause the Government was trying to guarantee that a mining interest was not capable of being intercepted when there had to be a renewal of the mining interest. That is a very legitimate requirement, but the sense of the clause left a great doubt. It could be interpreted that the mining interest was capable of being intercepted at any time and there was no right of renewal. So the Government quite correctly introduced some new words. The proposed sub-clause now reads: 
A reference in this Act to the granting of a mining interest in respect of Aboriginal land shall be read as not including a reference to the renewal, in accordance with an option or other right conferred before the land became Aboriginal land, of a mining interest that was in existence when the land became Aboriginal land. 
That gave some guarantee that when an interest was to be renewed- many of them are for 21 years; they have to be renewed progressively- it could not just be cut off or intercepted at the time of renewal. The effect of the Opposition's amendment is to put any renewal in a position of risk which ultimately could guarantee that the rnining interest or development would not proceed. I know that it is fashionable in this place to bash mining interests, to say that mining is not a satisfactory activity and to say that mining is always a disruptive activity. I am not one who holds to that proposition. It is quite clear that in other clauses of this BUI there are many guarantees as to the negotiating rights of Aborigines through the land councils and the deed-holding body, the Land Trust, in respect of the mining interests. As it is proposed by the honourable member for Hughes on behalf of the Opposition, the whole show is put at risk - 
The honourable member would not put his own interests at risk. I am just looking at the words of the Opposition's amendment. The meaning of those words is quite clear. They would react ultimately to the very great detriment of the Aborigines. They would not even allow the rights of Aborigines with respect to rnining interests to be protected because there would be none being renewed from which Aborigines would need to be protected or from which they could obtain payment in terms of negotiated settlements and so on. So I hope that the enormity of the proposition that is being put by the Opposition is realised in this chamber. It is for that reason that I welcome the Government's amendment to the original Bill. It clarifies sub-clause (4) of clause 3. That sub-clause has caused a lot of concern and a lot of uncertainty. No matter how it is read, it certainly does not mean what was intended by the original subclause. The Opposition's amendment runs completely contrary to what I thought was the first intended meaning and, as a matter of common sense, I believe that it ought to be rejected. I believe that the Government's proposed amendment is one of sound common sense, knowing what is involved in terms of those interests which are essentially long term interests and not short term interests. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the Mackey Marketing Scheme adopted by the Australian Meat Board at the meeting on 23 September 1976. 
) What was the share of the United States market served by Australian exports which was gained by exports from (a) New South Wales, (b) Victoria, (c) Queensland, (d) Tasmania, and (e) Northern Territory in 1 975-76. 
Having regard to the proposed allocations of quotas by the Australian Meat Board according to the Mackey Scheme, the seasonality of exports from certain parts of Australia, and the Mackey proposals to allocate quotas on selected market destinations on the 1975-76 performance, what would be the quotas awarded to (a) Tasmania and (b) Queensland for 1976-77. 
If inequities occur in the award of quotas for 1976-77 compared with 1975-76, has the Board the power to recommend alterations. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  made an absolutely incredible speech. The speech was obviously written by someone who was not aware that the Government, after the election in December, decided to retain the Prices Justification Tribunal. The first half of the speech presumed that the Tribunal was to be abolished. The second half of the speech contained a great and growing misunderstanding of what the Tribunal was about. 
It is said that every member of this place has it in him to make at least one good speech in the same way as every block of granite has it in it to make at least one good statue. I have seen many a good statue but I am still waiting for a good speech from the honourable member. It did not come from him this afternoon. In the first place, he has a quaint misunderstanding that the activities of the motor car industry will not be monitored by the Prices Justification Tribunal. That is just not correct. It was never intended and even the simplest person in this chamber did not misunderstand it in that way. Nevertheless, we heard that proposition from the honourable member. The second proposition that he put forward ought to be remembered. He wants the Prices Justification Tribunal in today's circumstances to maintain- I use his own words because I think they should be repeated over and over again- a policeman's role.  His  understanding of the policeman's role is of somebody who would pry, pimp, cajole and bully. He sees for the Tribunal the role which was understood to apply to it prior to December 1974. In his own words he wants it to return to that role. 
In his third proposition he shows his complete misunderstanding. He does not realise that the first of the 2 principal amendments to the Prices Justification Tribunal Act- there are a number of minor amendments- merely raises the size of turnover by a corporation which has to abide by the notification procedures from $20m to $30m. That has been a perfectly reasonable, fair and sensible proposition. He does not realise that the other substantial amendment applies in respect of the subsidiaries of companies which are subject to the notification procedure. They are not subject to it again. The honourable member who comes from a State which has a large white goods and motor car manufacturing industry, fails to understand that thousands of subsidiary organisations will now be released from the procedures. By not understanding it, he does not realise that that is a boon and that the Tribunal is certainly not acting in the role of a bullying policeman. The honourable member for Adelaide, a front bench member of the Opposition, does not even understand these points. 
One other proposition which runs through his speech ought to be exposed. It has been put forward in this chamber since 1973 when the Labor Government was looking for excuses for the rate of inflation. Over and over again it said that inflation can be brought down by use of the effective price control powers of the Prices Justification Tribunal. That attitude was abandoned subsequent to 1973 but it was the philosophy that motivated the speech of the honourable member this afternoon. That proposition will not work. It was never likely to work and I am sorry to see him returning to that theory of 3 years ago. Common sense would indicate that he should not return to it. 
I turn now to recent price rises in Australia. I refer to the last consumer price index to illustrate the point because it needs to be made. The Prices Justification Tribunal of its nature cannot be an aggregate brake on inflation in Australia. It can deal with certain companies which in fact propose to charge prices that are not justified, but there is no way in which it can brake the aggregate role of inflation in Australia. 
One only has to look at the consumer price index over a period to see the multitude of price rises which are not subject to and which do not come even within the ambit of control or interest of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Almost none of the prices that have risen very quickly since 1968 comes within the ambit of control of the Tribunal. Some examples are rents, rates, service charges, motoring service charges by public authorities, all charges by public authorities and statutory corporations and postal and telephone services. If one is looking for a brake on inflation by merely consulting the changes in the consumer price index over a period to see where the pressures have been on the baskets of goods for which people have to spend their household dollars, the Prices Justification Tribunal philosophically, economically and in every other way cannot and is not equipped to do the job. I ask honourable members to look at the mentality that was put forward here this afternoon on that point. 
I was fascinated with the proposition put by the honourable member for Port Adelaide this afternoon. It was like going back to the first days of the Tribunal when front bench members of the Opposition who were then in government conjured up the events subsequent to the Vietnam war as accounting for the rate of inflation which they generated in Australia. This was done by members of the Opposition. They said that an international transmission of money as a result of that war accounted for the rate of inflation in Australia. There were the old propositions about imported inflation. They have not been proposed in this chamber for some time but they still animate the mind of the honourable member who lead for the Opposition in this debate. I am afraid that he has not gone ahead with the times. 
There is one area in which this body, I believe, can do a very great and salutary piece of work under today's circumstances. Today's circumstances have been dominated by the  7Vi  per cent effective devaluation of the Australian dollar. In going for that proposition the Government has quite clearly said that it wants to promote by that means increased economic activity in Australia. We know that it has acknowledged that that is going to cause - 
The honourable member's Party has tried it in the past. He does not understand it. When his Party tried it in 1974 he did not understand it. It can be tried under certain circumstances of control and with the sense that our people have. The honourable member has never understood what he is talking about in this respect. He manifested that this afternoon for 30 minutes. I would like to test him on some of the clauses in the Bill. I would like to discuss some of these clauses when we come to the Committee stage. The honourable member has yet to prove himself. 
Let the honourable member for Port Adelaide defend himself. The honourable member for Grayndler can look after himself. He is big enough to do it. This is a serious proposition. When there has been a change of currency throughout the world in the past it has generated a sticky situation. A change then in the balance of payments of the country which devalued its currency existed for quite some time. There was also the situation in which the effect of imported goods on the degree of inflation in that country was muted for some time. It did not occur immediately. But with a quicker reaction on the part of entrepreneurs, buyers and sellers as a result of communication with changes in the price of goods, the effect on inflation will be rather quicker on this occasion than it has been in the past.  Dr Perkins  of the University of Melbourne pointed that out in an excellent article in the  Australian Financial Review  earlier this year. This means that the Prices Justification Tribunal will have the very salutary and important task to separate out the cost- price changes to goods presently landed in Australia from the cost-price changes to those which are bought by the new devalued Australian dollar. It has a very important role. It certainly is not a policeman 's role. 
Let me take care of one other proposition under which the honourable member for Port Adelaide still labours. He has obviously used his argument at many meetings. He said it is important that the Prices Justification Tribunal should be strong. He said that because a union has to go to an arbitration commission to obtain a pay rise it is equally important that a company, corporation or somebody charging a price for a good in the field should go to the Tribunal in order to have that price accepted. The 2 situations are altogether different. When an arbitration commissioneven the one in the honourable member's own State of which I hope he would have some knowledge- determines a wage rise it becomes mandatory and an absolute right. 
That is right. It becomes an absolute guarantee. But when a company goes to the Tribunal and obtains a price variation there is no guarantee as to the viability of that company in the future. There is no guarantee as to its profitability. There is no guarantee as to its ability to employ people. So the 2 situations are altogether different. The honourable member for Port Adelaide ought to appreciate that they are quite different. After all the people who showed in Australia how to cause both inflation and unemployment at the one time and who introduced the new word of negflation into the Australian vocabulary were the members of the Opposition. It is due to serious misunderstanding such as I have mentioned that they were able to do so. 
I would like to draw the Minister's attention to one part of the Bill about which I have some doubts. It is an alteration to the functions of the Tribunal. I do not doubt for one moment that the proposal has been brought in with the greatest goodwill and sincerity. That is obvious from reading this part of the Bill. But I doubt that it in fact can work. I refer to clause IS which states: 
In exercising its functions under sub-section (1), the Tribunal shall have due regard to the need for the company or companies concerned to achieve a level of profitability  that is sufficient to enable the company or companies to maintain an adequate level of investment and employment. 
That clause is very similar to one that was introduced as an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act earlier this year. The former amendment was designed to see that when the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission made a determination the effect on inflation and employment would be taken into account. In this case the level of profitability as it affects investment and employment can be overridden completely by the state ofthe economy at a particular time. In the former case the effect of a wage determination can be overridden in its effect on inflation and employment completely by the state of the economy at that time. 
I merely suggest to the Minister that he might consider having a similar amendment made to the clause so that the state of the economy is considered at the time. There could be 2 equal situations in which a price rise might be awarded. One might be awarded when the demand through the front door and on the factory floor is too low. A similar price rise might be given when the demand through the front door and on the factory floor is much higher. In the second case the ability to be able to maintain an adequate level of profitability for investment and employment purposes would be much greater than it would be in the former case. So the Prices Justification Tribunal must and ought to take these matters into consideration. 
The intention of this Bill is quite clear. Its purpose is to keep a promise that was made by the Government. The Government made a promise that it would keep the Tribunal substantially in the form in which it was towards the end of last year. To that end, it has introduced 2 principal amendments and a number of smaller amendments. It is absolutely absurd to say or to contend or even to misunderstand that the Tribunal effectively has been done away with. Many members of the Opposition say that the Prices Justification Tribunal was effectively emasculated towards the end of 1974 when there was the famous letter to the Tribunal by the former Prime Minister. It was not but the Opposition misunderstood the position in that way and it is misunderstanding in a similar way what has been proposed now. I believe that the Prices Justification Tribunal ought to be understood for what it can do, not for what it cannot do. It is not a prices control body. It is not a policing body. It is not a bullying body. It will substantially become a prices surveillance body. It is able to work in conjunction with the Trade Practices Commission and the Act. It will be able to work also with the Industries Assistance Commission. They will have complementary roles and not roles that substitute for one another and not roles that negative the effects of one another. 
I believe that the Bill deserves an opportunity to work and ought to be looked at in that way by the Opposition. It ought not to be seen as the principal means whereby inflation in Australia can be brought under control. That was never the case. We have never said that that would be the case. It will have a limited role in relation to companies of various sizes and it will maintain its surveillance role. It will be able to do that to the satisfaction of the Australian people only in so far as there is total equilibrium within the Australian community and total equilibrium within the economic community. In the absence of aggregate equilibrium of the main ingredients of national production any tribunal such as this will not be able to intercept price rises that will just have to occur. That is where the most serious misunderstandings occur. We cannot pull off excess weight merely by pulling a belt in and we cannot puff down price rises merely by giving to the Prices Justification Tribunal the kind of policing role that was proposed for it by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  That will not work. It has been tried in the past and I hope that we would not revert to the role for the Tribunal that was reserved for it by members of the Opposition during 1973 and early 1974. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It concerns the state of negotiations last weekend between Australia and the Papua New Guinea Government over the Australian border. Does the Papua New Guinea Government accept the proposal for a seabed line through a protected zone? 
-In relation to Bills, such as these 4 Bills which deal with taxation, the greatest error can be to attempt to look at any piece of income tax legislation in isolation. One has to be grateful to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  because for the first half of his speech he dealt with his general attitude towards taxation. After all, the attitude towards the mining industry has to fit within that pattern. It cannot be looked at in isolation. So the Opposition at least will excuse me if I look at every crumb of information given in this debate with all the suspicion with which a mouse might look at a piece of cheese on a kitchen floor. I want to see what virus is contained within the information. There are several. I shall deal first with the proposition put by the honourable member for Adelaide. He is a very reasonable and talented person. But he forgot a few vital facts. I will deal with them before I deal with the history of the mining industry to which the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  referred. 
I was fascinated to note that the honourable member for Adelaide was uncertain as to his total attitude towards these Bills. He pleaded insufficient time to have studied them and, having pleaded insufficient time, he came in here and confessed to a growing uncertainty as to whether he was in favour of them or against them. Only by effluxion of time and by exhaustion did he ultimately come to the position that he would support the Bills. 
Now I want to refer to some of the general attitudes towards taxation in the past, because they are important. One ought not to attempt to think that in looking at a piece of history one can draw a line across the scroll at any one date and say: 'Anything that occurred before that date is in the past. Anything that occurs subsequent to that date is in the future.' So I want to have a look at what has happened with respect to taxation in the immediate past. That is the pattern into which one has to fit what is proposed in these Bills. It is a monstrous fabrication to level the charge at this Government and say that it is not keeping promises in relation to taxation, because the total tax take this year will increase by something like 20 per cent. That is less than half the total tax take in one year under the previous Government. In another year under the previous Government the total tax take increased by well over 30 per cent. The circumstances in which both of those facts occurred need to be reiterated and repeated. The extraordinary fact is that the 40 per cent increase in total tax occurred in a year in which there was actual negative growth in Australia, in which there was an actual reduction in the number of taxpayers and in which of the total burden put upon taxpayers over 100 per cent in 1974-75 was a response to the burden created by inflation. It was mitigated somewhat by a taxation alteration in the course of the year. 
Using the type of calculation used by Professor Harris from the James Cook University in Townsville and carrying forward that type of calculation to what happened during those years, we find that those facts are incontrovertible. The honourable member for Blaxland, who is a very sensible person, would be the first to say that it is impossible to develop a taxation policy in relation to mining unless one has some knowledge of what the taxation policy was in respect of the persons and companies, public and private, that paid tax. Even the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, in his more sanguine moments would agree with that proposition. So in one year, of the burden of taxation attributable to the various causes which allow increased tax to be taken, inflation itself was responsible for more than 100 per cent of the increased tax take in 1974-75. 1 hope that that is never forgotten. 
I now turn to the general debate. I was fascinated by the ease with which the Opposition passed over the most significant tax measure that as been undertaken, which was the introduction this year of full personal tax indexation. Honourable members opposite did not agree with it. They said when they were in government that it could not be done. They inspired reports which were leaked from a former Deputy Commissioner of Taxation and which were subsequently leaked to the  Australian Financial Review,  showing how it could not be done. But the Government has done it. When the honourable member for Adelaide produces a table which seeks to compare the tax take in one year with that for the next year, he does not indicate what was going to be the tax take under the pattern of increased taxes which his Government brought into operation. That is the only way in which one can really comprehend and follow what was done with the full personal income taxation measures. So that is the pattern into which I want to fit what has to be said this evening. I want to sniff at quite a few pieces of cheese that have been thrown across the kitchen floor in this debate. 
With respect to mining, Opposition members have made it quite clear that they are opposed to all the mining provisions in this legislation, the most important of which is the 20 per cent reducing balance write-off. In opposing it I am sure that they are unaware of certain facts that are presently besetting the Australian economy  visavis  the world economy. Mining after all is the great growth industry in Australia. The development of exports from that industry has enabled a higher standard of living to be spread throughout the Australian community. It is that industry's exports which have allowed the redistribution of resources to occur whereby millions of workers in Australia are able to work, receiving high rates of pay, in industries which receive very significant tariff protection. The fitter and turner at Mount Isa is the kind of person whose activity enables a very significant subsidised wage to be paid to the fitter and turner working at the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd in Melbourne, which is your home town,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  or to the fitter and turner in the same trade working at Chrysler Australia Ltd in Adelaide. That is the redistribution of resources that comes from the mining industry. So when it is said in this House for environmental or other reasons that mining needs to be looked at suspiciously in the Australian environment and needs to be curbed in the Australian environment- that is the background of many of the statements- that is a grossly incorrect proposition to put. 
-No, but you could not separate your propositions on mining from the general taxation policies with which your Party is unhappily surrounded. 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, acknowledging that the increase of the income tax burden since 1 972 has been totally disastrous, and noting the stated intention of the Government to promote taxation reform of which tax indexation is the first instalment, this House is of the opinion that such reform should embrace the following considerations: 
Income taxation should be adequate to serve the revenue needs of government and that the increased total in tax revenue should be related only to the increase in the number of taxpayers, productivity and incomes in real terms; 
2 ) It should be fair as between persons and households; 
3 ) Marginal rates of tax should be reduced as suggested by the Asprey report and that the maximum marginal rate should be reduced towards 50 per cent as conditions allow; 
To recognise the importance of tax concessions in promoting incentive and investment but not so as to make their principal value to the taxpayer dependent on the tax forgone; 
5 ) The contribution of the rebate system in acknowledging that people placed equally should be treated equally and that many income earners especially those on the lower tax scales fail to claim adequately for concessions; 
That where rebates are transferred to social welfare payments the transfer compensates for the value of the rebates for each taxpayer or the household supported by the taxpayer, 
The effects of taxation and proposed changes in tax rates upon real disposable incomes should be acknowledged by the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission; 
And that alterations in the taxation system should seek to abide by these principles whether or not they are accomplished at the one time. 
-I am impelled to say a few words about the amendment because I think the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  seriously misunderstands the purport of the motion. Nothing proposed in the amendment is not already contained in the motion which, when passed, will cause this committee to be set up. I fear that when the honourable member for Hughes moved his amendment he included 2 extra subparagraphs, (v) and (vi), in sub-paragraph 1 (b), under the impression that the 2 new subparagraphs are not already included in those matters which may be investigated under the original motion. Therefore I ask him to turn his mind to the terms of the motion. Paragraph ( 1 ) states: 
That a Joint Select Committee be appointed to examine and report on- 
. . . 
. . . 
any other matters referred by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
They could quite clearly and quite easily embrace the points made by the honourable member  for  Hughes. I fear that out  of  goodwill he failed to understand that. The more he spoke the more I was certain that he misunderstood it. The Committee should be seen as a testament of good faith. It is a testament of good faith. Should there be any doubt about that, there are 2 points on which I wish to comment. The first is the innate generosity manifested by the House of Representatives in respect of any joint committee. Paragraph (2) of the motion of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  makes it clear that there will be 8 members of the House of Representatives and  6  senators. Already the Senate is over-represented. I hope that members of the committee from the House of Representatives do their best to see that the chairmanship authority remains where it ought to remain. If there were any residual doubt beyond that as to the good faith of those who propose the Committee, I refer to paragraph (3) of the Minister's motion. 
-I am not on the Committee. I suggest that members opposite and members on this side of the House look at paragraph (3) of the Minister's motion. Paragraph (12) states: 
That the committee report by 31 May 1977 and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
If there were any doubt as to the purpose of setting up this committee, that doubt ought to be removed immediately by the paragraph. Members of the committee retain their freedom to come to what they feel are legitimate judgments and to report those judgments. So the committee would not operate in a complete vacuum and do nothing while another legislature passes legislation. It is emboldened and requested to report by 31 May. It may not necessarily be a final report. That merely indicates that the effluxion of time will not become a weapon which would be used to make the activities of the committee null and void and inappropriate to the examination of this legislation and its operation in the Northern Territory. That report has to be in within 6 months. That is not a long period. So I think that the Opposition has, with the greatest of goodwill, misunderstood those paragraphs of the motion which propose to set up the committee and which embrace all those propositions. They embrace an attitude of sincerity and an attitude of goodwill. They retain freedom for members of the committee. 
There is one other aspect in the whole attitude of the Opposition to this legislation which worries me. I feel that it has not yet comprehended that the Northern Territory is to be given statehood within 5 years. This is a simple fact. We will not build up the greatest of goodwill or sense with respect to Aboriginal affairs if we seek continually from here to create a barrier between Aborigines and those who are exercising legitimate authority. I hope the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Hughes and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  if and when he speaks from his position of great authority, will comprehend all those things and will seek to look at them, having in mind goodwill for the Aboriginal people. 
Two other aspects of the statements which have been made ought to be borne in mind. I refer to the proposition contained in the amendment moved by the Opposition that the operation of the laws in the Northern Territory should be investigated insofar as they affect Aboriginal land, in particular laws relating to roads upon Aboriginal land and the right of entry upon pastoral property. From the way in which Opposition members have made their statements concerning these matters, one would think that they were not aware of what the legislation here and in the Northern Territory now encompasses. I suggest that they have one or two hangups with respect to these matters which flow from their 1975 legislation. I ask honourable members opposite to look at the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill, in particular to clauses 70 ( 1) and 70 (3), which relate to the entry of people onto Aboriginal land. These clauses are worth while examining. Clause 70 ( 1 ) states: 
Except in the performance of functions under this Act or otherwise in accordance with this Act or a law of the Northern Territory, a person shall not enter or remain on Aboriginal land. Penalty: $1,000. 
Clause 70 (3) states: 
In proceedings for an offence against sub-section ( 1 ), it is a defence if the person charged proves that his entry or remaining on the land was due to necessity. 
Under the 1975 legislation there were many roads in the Northern Territory on which an effective toll bar could have been imposed at will. I believe that that is the hangup which still remains when this proposal is criticised. I refer to clause 73 of the Bill, which makes it quite clear that ordinances of the Northern Territory have to coincide with and not differ from, nor contradict, what can be enacted here and those laws which this Parliament retains the right to enact. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  appreciates these things immediately. At the end of clause 73 (1) the following saving provision states:  but any such Ordinance has effect to the extent only that it is capable of operating currently with the laws of the Commonwealth, and, in particular, with this Act . . . 
So in each of those cases there is a manifestation of goodwill. I would hope that the Opposition would not use this merely to set up bargaining positions, political or otherwise, with respect to Aboriginal land rights. I have a prevailing feeling that the principal aim of Opposition members is to do so, and that would be to the detriment both of this Parliament and of those people on behalf of whom this legislation is being introduced. 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and it concerns the totally misleading statements that equate devaluation with the permanence of changes to tariffs and quotas. Is it not correct that, since World War II, the speed of response of domestic economic changes to significant currency alterations has increased? Does this not mean therefore that the quickness of response of domestic and export industries to the devaluation changes will all the more rapidly neutralise the so-called equivalent permanent tariff inflationary effects and increase the balance of payments? So, I ask: Can the speed of this response be accommodated by the new managed float arrangements to be determined by the Exchange Rate Review Committee? Finally, since when has it represented good economic analysis to ignore the most pervasive and consistent factor of all economic and financial experience- the speed of responsiveness of the economic community and the time scale of events? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many children are beneficiaries of the increases in child endowment announced by him in May 1 976 but who were denied any benefits of the taxation rebates for dependent children announced in the August 1975 Budget 
How many of the children to whom the increases in child endowment announced in May 1976 applied attracted partial tax rebates for dependent children as announced in the August 1975 Budget. 
3 ) How many of the children referred to in parts ( 1 ) and (2) were: 
Aboriginal children and 
non-Aboriginal children. 
What are the estimates ofthe value ofthe dependent child tax rebates for 1976-77. 
What are the estimates ofthe value of the dependent child tax rebates indexed for inflation at 1 3 per cent. 
What are the total estimated payments for child endowment for 1976-77. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-My remarks this morning will be in relation to Brisbane Airport. It is a subject which has attracted the notice of many people throughout my State for some years. A number of facts in relation to that airport have come to light which disturb me greatly. More tests have been done, more promises have been made concerning the proper development of the airport than in relation to any other major city capital airport in Australia. Those tests and promises have continued from the middle 1960s to the present day. Precise promises were made in 1971-72. Promises were made by the previous Government in 1973. The Coombs report and other determinations were utilised to try to wish the promises out of existence. Circumstances have now come to my notice which make it quite clear that that airport is incapable of functioning properly and completely even as a domestic airport. 
Those facts are serious. Brisbane has the third capital city airport in Australia. It is the quickest growing airport in terms of traffic. The movements of domestic and international passengers have consistently exceeded the target levels. That happened even last year when passenger traffic throughout Australia fell significantly short of the projected levels. Therefore, the first proposition I make is this: Unless there is a new runway development that airport will be incapable of handling the traffic for the Commonwealth Games. The Commonwealth Games have been awarded to Brisbane. If that city is not merely to become a secondary and subsidiary airport for trans-shipment of passengers to and from international flights to other airports in Australia it is incapable of handling the traffic. I refer to the Commonwealth Games held in Perth in 1962. Even if there were the same type of increase in traffic as occurred then at Perth, Brisbane could not cope. 
It is unsatisfactory that the third airport in Australia would be incapable of doing the job. The forecasts of the rate of growth of traffic have been made. Brisbane Airport has the highest per capita usage of any airport in Australia other than Canberra but the evidence in respect of domestic usage of the airport is overwhelming. It is clear that even domestic Boeing 727 aircraft are not able to utilise that airport with their all-up weight. I should like to read some data into  Hansard  which I believe is extremely important. In light to variable wind conditions at Brisbane Airport at 28 degrees centigrade which applies in the area for most of the year- it is a modest temperature- a domestic Boeing aircraft has to fall 2600 lb short of its take-off weight in order to function. That is equivalent to 12 to 13 passengers. At 30 degrees centigrade with similar wind conditions or no wind conditions a domestic aircraft using the present runway with its incorrect configuration has to be 4600 lb short of its all-up weight for take-off purposes. That is equivalent to 21 to 22 passengers. At 32 degrees centigrade it would be 8000 to 9000 lb short of its full take-off weight. At only 2 capital city airports are such restrictions required. Darwin, Perth, Melbourne and Sydney do not have them. Only Brisbane and Adelaide nave them and Brisbane is the third busiest capital city airport. 
Last year nearly 2 500 000 passengers went through that port. I suggest to the Government that the situation at Brisbane Airport with that number of passengers and with the responsibility of being the number one airport and the only significant international airport in Queensland is totally unsatisfactory. It has always been known to me and to others that it is incapable of functioning adequately as an international port. Boeing 747 aircraft on international flights which are fully loaded with passengers have to shed fuel, drop down at Sydney and then proceed overseas. There is no way in the world that that situation is justifiable for what should be an international airport, certainly for the holding of the Commonwealth Games. I will give some data in respect of Boeing 747 jets. With nil or normal wind conditions across the runway, at 28 degrees centigrade those planes have to drop 1 16 000 lb in their take-off weight. At 30 degrees centigrade they have to drop just on 122 000 lb in their take-off weight. At 34 degrees centigrade, a temperature which is experienced in Brisbane quite often, they have to drop 133 000 lb. No one should pretend that in those circumstances the airport comes even close to functioning as a justifiable international terminal. 
An extra on the runway would not solve the problem because it would not take account of the correct wind conditions. They are such that the runway has to be new and tilted as an old runway was tilted many years ago. Even a Boeing 707 has to be over 40 000 lb short of its take-off weight at 28 degrees centigrade. At 30 degrees centigrade it has to be 45 000 lb short and at 34 degrees centigrade it has to be 5 1 600 lb short. The gravamen of my remarks is that judgment on the use of that airport depends upon a judgment as to its runway. I believe that all other airport conditions are secondary to satisfactory runways. For domestic functioning Brisbane runway cannot do the job. A most common domestic plane in Australia, the Boeing 727, always has to function with less take-off weight than the maximum which it can have at all other capital city airports other than Adelaide. We know the difficulties Adelaide sometimes has with passengers travelling between that port and Perth. I suggest that the Government make it a top priority in airport construction to upgrade and recast the runway in the direction that has been promised. 
Yes, officially obtained from those who fly the planes. These are the weights that the captains of the planes are required to observe. 
That is right, if you want to reach your destination. Oddly this is an urgent proposition and it should be an absolutely top priority for airport construction in Australia. 
I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 6, 1 shall move: 
That, acknowledging that the increase of the income tax burden since 1972 has been totally disastrous and noting the stated intention of the Government to promote taxation reform, of which tax indexation is the first instalment, this House is of the opinion that such reform should embrace the following considerations: 
Income taxation should be adequate to serve the revenue needs of government and that the increased total income tax revenue should be related only to the increase in the number of taxpayers, productivity and incomes in real terms; 
It should be fair as between persons and households: 
Marginal rates of tax should be reduced as suggested by the Asprey report and the maximum marginal rate should bc reduced towards 50 per cent as conditions allow. 
To recognise the importance of tax concessions in promoting incentive and investment but not so as to make their principal value to the taxpayer dependent on the tux forgone; 
The contribution of the rebate system in acknowledging that people placed equally should be treated equally and that many income earners, especially those on the lower tax scales, fail to claim adequately for concessions; 
That where rebates are transferred to social welfare payments the transfer compensates for the value of the rebates for each taxpayer or the household supported by the taxpayer; and 
The effect of taxation and proposed changes in tax rates upon real disposable income should be acknowledged by the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission and that alterations in the taxation system should seek to abide by these principles whether or not they are accomplished at the one time. 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 15, 1 shall move: 
That, acknowledging that the Federal system is the most appropriate to Australia's needs, and that a government committed to centralist and socialist policies is not in accord wilh the interests of Australians, this House is of the opinion that the manifestation of that federalism through economic federalism needs to: 
1 ) be fair and just as between the Commonwealth and the States; 
take account ofthe effects of export and manufacturing industries in each State and their contribution towards supporting the taxable capacity for each state; 
acknowledge the net value added to real wealth through the industry of each State; 
take account ofthe differential effects of monetary policy in each State and the role played by State controlled banks and financial institutions; and 
5 ) take full account of the taxable capacity of each State if and when the States levy their own income tax: and these principles of economic federalism can only hope to find fulfilment within a predominantly free enterprise society. 
Australian Assistance Plan 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 5, 1 shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that in all future environmental investigations involving industrial and rnining projects any recommendation to terminate, phase out or to alter the project be rejected unless the following conditions are satisfied: 
a ) the national economic effects of the recommendation have been evaluated in terms of their detrimental effects on employment, income and population support; 
b ) the regional and State economic effects of the recommendation have been evaluated in terms of their detrimental effects on employment, income and population support; 
where an export industry is involved the ability of that industry to contribute towards the balance of trade and the balance of payments has been evaluated; and 
alternative and viable proposals have been made to compensate for the industry or the project recommended to be terminated or phased out. 
Privy Council Appeals 
I give notice that as the second motion on general business Thursday No. 6 1 shall move: 
To ensure that Australia's foreign policy is directed to this country's best long term interests it should: 
Recognise Australia's capacity and obligation to influence events, especially in the Asian region. 
Be supported by an adequate defence willingness on the part of the people. 
Inform the Australian people of the aims of imperialistic international and national movements, including communism. 
Maintain the moral probity, balance and evenhandedness of its judgments and actions. 
Deal sympathetically with the hopes and aims of refugees, especially from countries who have been recent Australian allies. 
Granting of Supply 
-As I listened to the 30-minute speech just read by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  it became obvious to me that the author of the speech had forgotten to tell the reader this afternoon how increasingly pessimistic the author was as he got further on into the speech. The honourable member made a number of very grievous and very serious errors. I have time to touch upon only a couple of the errors. They are important. Of course population policy is no substitute for a rational economic, social or environmental policy but an appropriate population policy enables a rational economic, social and environmental policy to be pursued, and that is the rationale behind the Government's approach to a population policy. The honourable member made a couple of other errors. To say that everything will be all right as we are now for 25 years- it will not be as long as that; for 20 years- and it is only then that we will run into serious labour problems or population problems and then we can look at the matter, is the height of absurdity. 
Does the Opposition not realise that there is a population momentum when demographic matters are discussed and that the population momentum once lost cannot be sustained or regenerated under several more decades? Has the Opposition not learnt anything from the experience of France from the beginning of the 20th century to the beginning of World War II, especially between World War I and World War II, when it became increasingly impossible to sustain a momentum in terms of the dynamism of her own people? 
It was not my intention to make any comment upon the speech of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  but as he mentioned in passing the name of Wilfred Burchett I am obliged to make one or two comments. I am amazed at the contradiction in his speech. He was able to cry because Australians may be involved in hostilities overseas of any kind whatsoever, whether as mercenaries or as people doing anything at all. He cried that he was concerned and sincerely upset about that. He was upset further that we would not welcome into this country Wilfred Burchett, perhaps as a patriotic and a loyal Australian. I find it difficult to accept the second proposition because I know personally Australian soldiers who were captured in Korea and who were interviewed by Wilfred Burchett in the company of communist Chinese soldiers in North Korea. Therefore, for him to assume that the  speaker  following him would not remind the House of the very reprehensible action committed by Wilfred Burchett is beyond my imagination. 
I turn to the substance of this Bill. It aims to do only 2 things. What it aims to do ought to be understood by the House. What it cannot do ought to be understood by the House. I quote from the first paragraph of the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott): 
Thus, the first objective of the Bill is to prohibit persons preparing for or engaging in incursions into foreign countries. 
It makes no other claim. He also said: 
The second is to prohibit the recruiting in Australia of persons to serve in armed forces in a foreign country. 
The Bill does not aim to do any more than that. It cannot do any more than that. I refer now to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He is a talented, sensible member of the Opposition and a loyal Australian. He seeks to make hostile actions of any kind by Australians in foreign countries subject to the provisions of this Bill. He is trying to make this country a peeping, a prying and a pimping country which must take action in respect of every activity by an Australian overseas. That is the consequence of paragraph (a) of the words proposed to be added to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. That is an absolutely absurd proposition. It would make a government the laughing stock of the world. What is intended by this Bill? Two precepts were enunciated by the Attorney-General. It cannot do more than that. We hope it cannot do less than that. It must do so with a degree of common sense. 
The other characteristic which underlies this Bill is that it must be of a political nature, having regard to political effects in respect of Australians in overseas countries and in respect of the governments of overseas countries. The origin of the Bill makes it quite clear. A piece of history, I think, is appropriate. It is not often that present members of this place or even members in the 1930s praise actions of the League of Nations. The characteristic reference to the League of Nations is that it was considering a convention on road traffic signs while the Germans were marching into Danzig. That was a measure of its effectiveness. It passed a convention that has an appropriate relationship to what this Bill is about. I shall read from what is known as the Convention for the Prevention and the Punishment of Terrorism which was passed by the League of Nations in 1937. The convention was primarily aimed at the protection of heads of state and other public figures. It is in Une with what this Bill is supposed to do. It was designed to prohibit any form of preparation for or execution of terrorist outrages upon the life or liberty of persons taking part in the work of foreign public authorities and services. This Bill goes beyond that. But the principles involved in the convention are appropriate to this Bill. 
In 1937 the League of Nations considered that matter following the events of 1934. 1 know that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  is vitally interested in this matter. In 1934, as the House knows, there was the dual assassination of King Alexander I of Yugoslavia and Louis Barthou, the French Foreign Minister at the time. As a result of that assassination in France of those 2 people by a citizen of one of the Yugoslav provinces, a train of events was set in course which did have a great effect on World War II. Some say that as a result of that action the little entente which acted as a brake upon the developing power of Germany during the 1930s was dissolved. Only history can tell what effect the dissolution of the little entente had with the passing of Alexander I. But the point I want to make is this: That action in a foreign countrythat incursion and that terrorist action- had very grave ultimate political consequences. So that has to be taken as the ultimate point of departure as far as this Bill is concerned. It has to be concerned with heads of state. It has to be concerned in respect of governments. It has to allow to the Attorney-General of this country the power to make exceptions and to make judgments according to the foreign policy or the defence requirements of Australia. Were it not to allow those exceptions to occur the country could be drawn into every type of absurd situation imaginable. 
The Bill is not a charter of behaviour of Australians overseas. It is not a charter of the rights of Australians overseas. It is not a charter of the obligations of Australians overseas. But it must have characteristics in relation to the actions of Australians in relation to governments overseas. That is the whole purpose of the legislation. Unless those matters are understood, I am afraid that the very nature of the Bill cannot be understood. 
The year 1934 was a year of assassinations which affected the course of the world and certainly affected the course of Europe. That is the reason for the inclusion of clause 6 in the Bill. The side note to the clause states: 
Incursions into foreign countries for purpose of engaging in hostile activities. 
Clause 6(1) states: 
A person shall not- 
enter a foreign country with intent to engage in a hostile activity against the government of that country; or 
The Opposition proposes to delete the words against the government of that country'. The clause continues: 
engage, in a foreign country, in a hostile activity against the government of that country. 
Delete those words- that is the sum total of the rationale of the amendments moved by the Opposition- and we would make Australian foreign policy and Australian defence policy the plaything of random and erratic actions by any Australian overseas. It will be said that any action by an Australian overseas- it does not have to be in respect of a country overseas- is a cause for action itself. 
One can come up with some quite absurd situations. Take the example of Lord Byron. If Lord Byron was an Australian citizen and not a British citizen what would be the requirements of Australia? To what extent would Australia be held responsible for his actions in Greece against the Turks if he were an Australian citizen? What action would have to be taken? Would the penalties outlined so brilliantly by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  have to be contemplated by the Government? That would be an absolutely absurd situation. 
What would happen with respect to British soldiers serving overseas if they happened to be Australian soldiers? In such a case, what would happen to such soldiers fighting with Garibaldi? Australia would be impelled into action. It would not be possible to withdraw from action. Australia would,  ipso facto,  have to take a course of action in respect of those matters. Another example concerns events that occurred with respect to World War II when countries made treaties with an occupying power as a last resort. People came out of those countries and found themselves in another service overseas fighting ostensibly for the liberation of a country which, for legal purposes, had been taken over in a friendly way. Flexibility on the part of a government would be prevented in such cases. A government would be impelled to take a particular course of action. The very philosophy and very nature of this Bill require that common sense be applied to it. 
I give another example which will not appeal to all members of this House but nevertheless it is appropriate. During World War I Archbishop Mannix, the Archbishop of Melbourne, because of the troubles in Ireland found himself on the way to that country which was occupied by another power. We know what happened. We know that this event has often been characterised historically as one of the greatest victories of the British Navy. Nevertheless, accepting that position, Australia would have been impelled into action irreversibly on account of that trip being taken to Ireland by the late Archbishop Mannix. How can one conduct oneself sensibly and with reason in a world where no flexibility is allowed in respect of those matters? It is just not on. We had a situation a few years ago in which Australia did not have diplomatic recognition of mainland China but recognised Taiwan. What would happen with respect to Australia taking an action or intending an action of one kind or another defined as widely as is clause 6 (3) of the Bill in respect of mainland China? We would be impelled into action again. These are just some examples of the absurd position in which a number of the propositions put forward by the Opposition would in fact leave this country. Nobody could conduct foreign policy on that basis. We would be led into absurd positions. Clause 6 (3) ofthe Bill states 
For the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ), engaging in a hostile activity against the government of a foreign country consists of doing an act for the purpose of achieving anyone or more of the following objectives . . . 
Paragraph (d) of sub-clause (3) states: 
Unlawfully destroying or damaging any real or personal property belonging to the government of the foreign country. 
What does that mean? Are we to say, as has been said over and over again tonight, that the legislation would affect some modest action by an Australian overseas such as kicking in a telephone booth or punching a referee at a British soccer game? I can imagine the emotions that would be aroused by that action. If the Opposition's amendments were accepted the Australian Government would be impelled into action. Members of the Opposition have made it quite clear in their speeches that the flexibility allowed to the Government in clauses 9 and 10 would not apply. That flexibility is absolutely essential if there is to be any common sense whatsoever. 
I suggest that the power given to the Minister in terms of clause 9 (2) is quite important. Clause 9(2) states: 
If the Minister has, by instrument signed by him and published in the  Gazette,  declared that it is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia to permit the recruitment . . . 
Then recruitment can take place. The ultimate effect of the sentiment expressed by the Opposition would be that all Australian relations with Papua New Guinea could be endangered. They could be made very difficult. The transfer of personnel could be made quite difficult. Where do they stand in relation to this? It is common sense that something would have to be done about it. Clause 10 makes it clear that once a prosecution has commenced, whether or not it is proceeded with, it allows the Government and the Minister to make their own decision. Clause 10(1) states: 
Subject to sub-section (2), a prosecution for an offence against this Act shall be on indictment. 
Paragraph (c) of sub-clause (4) states: 
A person so charged may be remanded in custody or on bail, out no further step in proceedings referred to in subsection (3) shall be taken in relation to the offence until such a consent has been given. 
Sub-clause ( 5 ) states: 
Nothing in sub-section (4) prevents the discharge of the accused if proceedings are not continued within a reasonable time. 
All these provisions merely allow a country to be in charge of its own foreign policy. I remind the House that the United Nations covenants with respect to crimes against diplomatic persons and so on are expressed in terms of the grave effect their non-observance could have in jeopardising foreign policy or foreign relations. The covenants with respect to this matter have that as its preeminent principle, according to whether it judges the common sense or legality of what it is doing. 
This Bill is political. It has to be unashamedly political. Were it not political it would live in a never-never world. Its origin in the modern era lies in those circumstances of the 1934 period. It has a relationship to the consideration by the League of Nations of those events that went on for 3 years. It has a relationship to the activities of governments in relation to one another. Ultimately it assumes the non-interference principle of governments in relation to one another. I only wish that that principle had been observed a little more from North Korea to South Korea, for example. Nevertheless, the Bill has its origin in that. Unless those facts are realised the Bill becomes an absolute nonsense. I would suggest therefore that the amendment moved by the Opposition would make the Bill a nonsense and would make it unable to deal significantly with any events whatsoever. 
-I put my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to statements he made in the United States of America, which were reported widely here, that China is a force for stabilisation in South East Asia. As I presume this was an expression of Government policy I ask what is the factual evidence on which this policy is based. Is there any sign of a diminution of Chinese support for insurgency in, for example, Burma or in the Marxist-Leninist party in Malaysia and in other South East Asian countries? If not, does his statement as an expression of Government policy merely acknowledge China's ability to act as a counterpoise to Russia in this part of the world? 
I am a little fascinated with the amendments moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  which replace the amendments which last night he indicated he would be moving. There is no doubt that the debate last night and today has caused him to have second thoughts. The amendments which were circulated last night - 
They are in the name of the honourable member. 
-It is a very sad thing that when amendments appear in the name of an honourable member - 
They were in the House. They were certainly circulated to me. Nevertheless, the difference between the amendments moved this afternoon and the ones which I saw last night is that, on the basis of the second set of amendments, sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 6 would read: 
A person shall not- 
enter a foreign country with intent to engage in a hostile activity of a military or paramilitary nature; 
That part of the clause deals with the intent to carry on that sort of activity in whatever overseas country happens to be involved. I find it difficult to know what definition would be given to what is described not only as military activity but also paramilitary activity. 
-Those things are not defined in the amendments which have been moved, and I find difficulty in understanding precisely what is intended. There is no doubt but that that would inhibit Australian citizens from doing many things that they might want to do in difficult parts of the world. Examples were given of Australians who feel very strongly about the situation in Israel wanting to assist Israel in some of her actions against incursions and aggressions. It is quite clear that the amendment would prevent people- Australians or those who qualify as residents of Australia- from engaging in that kind of activity. I wonder whether the honourable member is trying to draw too strong a line in respect of the freedom that the people who are resident in Australia have in taking an interest in the affairs of overseas countries, particularly when the country concerned is the one from which they have come and with which they have very close and very pertinent, sensitive family connections. 
Some of the examples that were given last night are still relevant, and the amendment does not take account of them. What would happen, for example- one looks at the experience of historyto people who took an interest in, say the international brigades, either for or against, during the Spanish Civil War? Some of the people who have done that have been praised by members of the Opposition in other debates in this House. I can recollect people who took part in the international brigades- I refer to such people as George Orwell and Ernest Hemingwayreceiving praise in this House for taking an interest in the work of those brigades, even though they were citizens of another country. Many honourable members sitting behind the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith have done that in the past. What he is saying is that the judgment that was made by his own colleagues in those cases was incorrect. It is an interesting reversal of values. What he is doing above all is making himself a judge, making himself the conscience in respect of the activities of a military or paramilitary nature of any Australian overseas. That is a very wide net to draw indeed, and it is a very wide net to throw in respect of activities in which Australians might engage overseas. 
Bearing in mind that amendment and bearing in mind the amendment which the Opposition proposes to move to clause 9- its purpose is to remove the flexibility able to be exerted by the Attorney-General in determining what action might attract attention in Australia- once again the Opposition is committing the error which I believe was clearly enunciated last night. Australia would be impelled inflexibly into taking action with respect to citizens overseas, and that would become a major matter in the determination of Australia's international and foreign relations. So I suggest that that amendment ought to be defeated, even though it is proposed to remove sub-clause (3). That will have the effect of removing some of the fractious and very unusual circumstances such as kicking in a telephone booth which might cause action to be taken. I am glad to see that the honourable member for Kinsford-Smith has had second thoughts about those absurd situations. Nevertheless, the principal reason why the amendment ought to be rejected remain its absolute inflexibility, the absurdity of the situation with respect to the judgments which he is going to impose on Australians overseas when they engage in a very wide set of activities, for or against a government, of a military or a paramilitary nature. It would be impossible for a country to be significantly in charge of its own foreign policy in such circumstances. I believe that the amendments ought to be rejected. 
I find it difficult to understand the grave concern that the Opposition has in relation to this clause. When one contemplates for one moment the consequences which would flow from this provision were it to be deleted from the Bill one sees that some of the consequences become a little absurd. It is clear that between Australia's armed forces and armed forces overseas there is a significant exchange of personnel, not each one of which should invite a proclamation or an instrument to be signed. That should be able to occur without going through formal procedures which would put each one of them at risk. As I understand it, for example, were the Australian armed forces to second, say, computer operators, people skilled in that technical kind of work, between this country 's armed forces and say the armed forces of Papua New Guinea it could be done under this clause, but were the clause to be deleted another whole set of formal procedures would have to be followed. Where there is exchange of personnel between armed forces of this country and those of the United States of America it is presumed that they occur as a simple matter of course and judgments have to be made as to the countries in which that kind of exchange will occur as a simple matter of course. Where it is presumed that they could occur without going through formal procedures the deletion of this clause would not allow it to occur. Take exchanges between Australian armed forces and Sandhurst Military College. One could think of a whole host of exchanges which occur all the time that involve technical personnel, scientists, biochemists and engineers. They involve people skilled in, for example, military work. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
My question which I direct to the Prime Minister concerns the circumstances of the freeze and the Government's case to be presented to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. If, as alleged, only details of the case account for the submission not receiving the support of State Labor governments, has the Prime Minister received any indication that the governments of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania will intervene in similar manner, and with their own emphasis on detail, before their own arbitration tribunals and wages boards? Have those governments given any indication that their State tribunals will be asked to accept a lead given by the Arbitration Commission? 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House notes that the agreement for a halt in incomes and prices, even for 3 months, must, to achieve whatever success is available to it, acknowledge the Federal nature of the Australian industrial system and that such an agreement involving the Commonwealth and the States was signed on 13 April 1977; however, having regard to the very significant constitutional and industrial powers that lie with States whereby some State commissions adjudicate awards for SO per cent of relevant workers, this House notes: 
1 ) The complete absence of any attempt by the New South Wales and South Australian signatories to intervene and so utilise the industrial responsibilities available to them within the jurisdiction of the industrial commission of New South Wales and South Australia; 
The complete absence of any attempt by the Tasmanian signatory to utilise the powers available to the Tasmanian Parliament whether or not the Wage Board 's procedure was to be utilised; 
That such intervention in each case was available in respect of wages according to their own interpretation of the agreement of 13 April under the Industrial Arbitration Act of New South Wales and the industrial code of South Australia; 
That the State industrial commissions have powers to call a conference of those under State award for a wages or incomes pause without compulsion; 
That the stated reasons of Premiers Wran of New South Wales and Dunstan of South Australia for reneging on their promises of 13 April have been the alleged compulsion involved in a joint approach to the Federal Arbitration Commission; 
That conciliation initiatives are pursued by State industrial commissions very commonly on the initiatives of State governments or Ministers. Hence any decision by the States of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania to abandon their undertaking of 13 April because of alleged compulsion is totally without foundation and that such reckless attitudes are clearly obvious because of their total and complete disinterest in pursuing essential complementary policies through the operations of their own State industrial jurisidictions. And therefore this House regrets that the Premiers of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania broke their word and in doing so failed to abide by their essential constitutional and industrial responsibilities. 
I was interested in the friendly discursion on the part of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  concerning the insurance industry, but, no matter now friendly it was, it should not hide the fact that this industry is a crucially important one and there are certain matters that have to be looked at very closely in relation to events in that industry not just today but over fairly recent years. It is also appropriate to observe that the insurance industry in this country- the life section of industry as well as the underwriting section of the industry- operates somewhat in the British tradition and that in that tradition it has always had a very proud history. That is perhaps best examplified by the fact that when well known European consultants were asked to depict the best and worst aspects of British industry for viewers on the European continent they chose as the worst industry, for one reason or another but not due to personalities, the British shipbuilding industry, which had run into immense and enormous difficulties for a variety of reasons, and they chose as the best industries operating in the United Kingdom from an economic point of view the city and the insurance industry. I would like to think that Australia operates somewhat in that tradition. 
The second report of the Insurance Commissioner is a very valuable document. As the years go by the value of that document will become more and more apparent. That document makes it perfectly clear that over recent years- in this regard I am referring to the first piece of legislation before the House- the insurance industry has itself run into quite immense and-' enormous difficulties. I believe that those difficulties can be summed up in one proposition, that is, the difficulty of allowing for future provisions in terms of payments from the insurance industry. I am not referring to particularly great natural disasters, which I put aside and which are to be considered in a separate way. Cyclone Tracy, the Brisbane floods and so on are quite a separate matter. But the difficulty is one of providing and making assessments for future provisions in the industry. I believe that it is worth while philosophising on that for just one moment. 
The difficulties of that industry occur because of the distance between the act of insurance and the claim on account of which the insurance was first negotiated. Insurance is negotiated at a certain moment in time. It is negotiated for a contingency. That contingency may or may not arise. The difficulty is that if it does arise it will arise for some undetermined payout and for an unknown amount. I believe that that is made perfectly clear by the Insurance Commissioner's report that there are 3 areas of insurance that have been operating at very substantial losses. I refer to workers compensation insurance, motor vehicle insurance and compulsory third party insurance. For example, according to the Commissioner's report, the losses in 1974-75 in respect of those areas of the Australian insurance industry amounted to $128m. That is an absolutely enormous amount. The difficulty is simply to relate ultimate benefits to payments that occur in order to enable those benefits to be met. Some of those benefits have been seen increasingly by governmentsvery much by State governments as well as others- as welfare payments. We come therefore to a very important principle, namely, to what extent is the insurance industry to be tied in terms of either its short term obligations or its long term obligations to the welfare principle? I do not believe that that can be totally ignored. It ought not to be ignored. 
It is for those reasons that I am pleased with a couple of aspects of the Bills presented by the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  concerning which other questions will be asked during the Committee stage. I am delighted that some of the solvency provisions that affect the underwriting companies, if I can put it that way, are being liberalised and will in fact help a number of those companies. I refer to the Minister's comment: 
Thirdly, it is proposed that insurance companies be able to omit from the calculation of their annual premium income for purposes of the Act amounts they have collected for onward transmission to the States or Territories in the form of fire brigade levies, stamp duties and other similar charges. 
I believe that is perfectly reasonable. What effect is that going to have on the capacity of these companies to meet their obligations? Their premium income is of the order of a couple of thousand million dollars a year. Their payments in terms of stamp duties, fire brigade levies and so on were of the order of $130m to $140m in 1975-76. That sum is to be omitted for the purposes of those calculations. When in addition to that one adds the 15 per cent solvency ratio one can see that it is going to assist them in terms of their payout by something of the order of $ 1 40m, $150m or $ 160m on the 1975-76 figures. So that much less in assets has to be provided for according to the legislation. That means that that much more is available to be distributed to those who will be the welcome and sometimes the unhappy recipients of the payments of these insurance companies. I believe that there can be greater explanation of some of those details in the legislation. The situation may be summed up by saying that the difficulties of this industry depend upon the overwhelming truism and simple fact that it cannot run an unfunded scheme and that the nature of the funding of that scheme lies at the heart of what one considers in relation to any insurance industry. 
I would like to read into  Hansard  one or two appropriate comments from the second report of the Commissioner. I refer to page 9 - 
-General. Life will receive attention in a few moments. Referring to the difficulties of the companies, on page 9 he said: 
There are minor matters relating to the magnitude of adjustments made but - 
This is the crucial point- in 2 years the private sector has increased its total provisions for meeting outstanding liabilities to policy holders in respect of claims from around $514m at 1 July 1973 to $691 m at 30 June 1 974 and to $987m one year later. These latter amounts represent 45 per cent of total liabilities in 1 973-74 and 52 per cent of total liabilities in 1974-75. Notably provisions to meet workers compensation claims have more than doubled from $200m to $438 
In one or two sentences the Commissioner epitomised the very great difficulties and burdens of that industry. Therefore it needs help and reasonable supervision. It receives some significant help in this respect. 
I turn to the Bill to amend the Life Insurance Act. The amendments in the Bill are only part of some much larger amendments which are foreshadowed by the Minister. We should not gloss over the enormous problems the life insurance industry has endured over recent years. It has endured enormous problems. Perhaps I am taking a risk in introducing some political content into this debate, but it has to be done. The Life Insurance Commissioner in his last annual report on page 8 said: 
The total number of new policies issued continued to decline from the record number of policies written in 1 972. The rate of decline was only 2.3 per cent this year as compared with 7.5 per cent last year, and it is possible that over the next one or two years a definite upward trend will re-emerge. 
We hope that it does. Unless I am a month or two behind, the monthly statements of the Australian Statistician on policies surrendered and discontinued show a disturbing propensity towards a continuing increase. That has to worry anybody concerned with the industry and what it can do for Australia. After all, it is some ways the largest single organiser of capital available or put on to the Australian market. Therefore it has to be treated sensibly and should not be made a source that can be plundered from time to time. 
It needs to be repeated that a number of changes were made in the treatment of life insurance from 1972 on which were to the detriment of the industry and therefore of those who held policies. I will just go through some of the difficulties and problems. Firstly, under the actuarial liability arrangement the amount of assets exempt from tax was reduced from 3 per cent to 1 per cent. Secondly, the rate of tax on the companies was increased. As a result of these 2 provisions in the budgets of 1973 and 1974, on simple calculations in those years at least $2 1 5 m and $200m less was available for distribution to policy holders. I believe, and I say this without any emotion, that the previous Government made a severe mistake in making those provisions. 
It also made a number of other taxation provisions to the disadvantage of life insurance companies. The proposition one which attracts most comment from the life insurance companies deserves to be mentioned because I do not totally agree with it. It is that the automatic tax rebate introduced in the 1975 Budget acts as a severe disincentive to those who would take out life insurance. I look at the matter itself. I am in favour of there being an automatic rebate of some size for taxpayers because there is evidence that those on lower incomes have not been utilising all the provisions available to them to claim taxation concessions. Therefore the automatic rebate deserves to be retained in some form or other. Whether or not it should be indexed is another matter to be determined. 
The other proposition which attracts the attention of those concerned with life insurance concerns the $1,200 tax deduction for life insurance. These 2 propositions concerning the automatic rebate and the $1,200 tax deduction impinge on one another. It is alleged that the $1,200 tax deduction cannot be taken advantage of as much now as in the past, but this depends on the extent to which the tax concession of $1,200 was the principal reason for taking out life insurance in the first place. If some method could be found for separating the effect of a $1,200 deduction on insurance that was taken out with the concession in mind and the effect of an automatic rebate specially for those on low incomes, who quite obviously have been claiming less in tax concessions than one would expect they should be able to claim, not only would a service be done to economic equity, but also a significant service would be done to the life insurance industry itself. Above all, it needs to be remembered that the previous Government regarded the life insurance industry as an industry that could be raided and disadvantaged. It did not see it as an essential handmaiden of industry and people involved in industry. It should have done so. 
There is one other provision in this legislation to which I would like to direct one or two comments during the Committee stage. It is the provision involved in clauses 36 and 16. They enable regulations to be made in terms of the Fourth Schedule. I am referring to the provision for the minimum valuation basis for judging the return on assets of life insurance companies. It is quite clear that at  3lA  per cent that minimum valuation is too low, and because that is significantly below what is earnt on assets and investments by life insurance companies too little is returned to policy holders. On the facts of life it is less than what ought to be the return on premium incomes available to policy holders. 
The proposed amendments in the Bill give too much latitude. They merely stated that the schedules can be amended. It does not have to be by legislation. The Fourth Schedule may be amended effectively by regulation. I pose this question: In what direction may the valuations be amended by regulation? May they be amended upwards or may they be amended downwards? It might be said, and no doubt it would be said: 'We would not amend them downwards. We would have regard to the index of investment returns published in the Life Insurance Commissioner's report. We would amend them in accordance with that'. But that is not provided for in the Bill. Those who have investments in life insurance companies ought to receive a guarantee as to the direction in which those amendments would be pursued. They have that right. They see it in accordance with common sense. The Insurance Commissioner develops a very useful index for the return on investments of the various classes of the life insurance companies, and it ought to be utilised. 
Another part of the schedule is quite crucial and affects the returns to policy holders. The mortality tables are to be brought up to date and more recent mortality tables are to be utilised. I ask: Which mortality tables are to be utilised and how up to date are they likely to be? It is clear from the recent life tables put out by the Australian Government Actuary,  Mr S.  Caffin, who has about 25 letters after his name, that the rate of mortality for one period as a proportion of the mortality of previous periods can vary quite significantly. Therefore if one is over-conservative in utilising mortality tables which are dated policy holders can be disadvantaged and the maximum amount which should be returnable to them would not be returned. 
I believe that both these Bills are very interesting and that they will attract a lot of comment at this stage and in the Committee stages. I will be interested to hear some assurances from the Minister in respect of their administration, certainly in relation to the numerical amounts involved in Schedule 4 of the Bill. In some ways they are clearly the key to the Life Insurance Amendment Bill. They give it substance and soul, and rectify some of the inequities of the past. I believe that policy holders in Australia, in an industry which has assets of $8,000m-odd, should be able to see that both these amendments are made in accordance with the most recent modern practice and experience in the field of investment and in the field of mortality tables. 
I shall address myself for a very few moments to clauses 16, 32 and 36 of this Bill, since we are considering it in a Committee of the Whole. Clauses 16 and 36 rather hang together and give the capacity for regulations as to valuations and the minimum rate of interest to be determined. They can be determined by regulation, and I shall consider those 2 clauses together. I am not satisfied with the explanation given by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner).  I raised this matter during the second reading debate, and the Minister indicated that in these matters the 
Government would consult with the Commissioner and with the industry and that something would then be done. What will be done and how will it be determined? That explanation does not satisfy me, nor could it satisfy anybody. If there are going to be consultations with an industry, on whom does the initiative lie with respect to the decision to consult? When will it occur? Above all, what is the nature of the decisions which will come out of that consultation in terms of the interest rate for the assessment of the minimum rate of value of liabilities in the various statutory funds according to Schedule 2? What is the interest rate to be? 
I suggest that that kind of proposition ought to attract the Minister so that some assurance can be given that the interest rate, according to which the minimum basis of valuation of the aggregate liabilities of a statutory fund shall be determined, shall be one per cent, say, below the return on assets as determined by the Commissioner for that year; or if the interest rate has to be determined in a year for which the Commissioner has not determined the rate of return on assets, one could go 2 years earlier and catch up in that way. One has to have assurances as to the way in which minds are going to work in determining what that interest rate will be. I assume that that is simple common sense, and that a variety of formulae are available when there is a lag between the year for which the interest rate return can be determined by the Commissioner and the year at which he has to determine the value of liabilities. With a little bit of flexibility of mind, there are many ways in which that can be assessed. But the assurance needs to be given, and I believe it deserves to be given. After all, a difference of one per cent in the interest rate could make a difference of $200m to $400m being returnable to policy holders over a period of four or five years, and that is on a very conservative assumption. It also determines the extent to which the benefits will accrue to policyholders in the future as against policy-holders today, who want to receive the benefits today or who want to receive the bonuses. I do not believe it is a proposition to be put aside as having no value whatsoever. That is my comment in respect of the minimum rate of interest to be determined under the Schedule. 
Returning again to the matter of the life tables, I do not know whether the Minister responded to that in his reply. 
The Minister did not indicate what life tables were to be utilised. 
There is a whole host of good reasons why the life tables to be utilised- again, they are nominated in Schedule 2 and are governed by clauses 16 and 36- should be as recent as possible and not ones which are rather dated. One only has to look through the Schedule at the moment to see that some of the tables to be utilised lie in the period of the 1930s. The difference in mortality rates in all age groups and sexes varies very much as between the 1930s and today and differs very substantially as between the 1950s and today. For example, statistical bulletin number 4.3 1 was released by the Commonwealth Statistician only recently and gives the Australian life tables for 1970 to 1972. 1 will quote  Mr Caffin  in his comments on the life tables as they are today: 
The decline in the rates of mortality which has been shown in each of the Australian Life Tables this century except for the Australian Life Tables 1 965-67, has again taken place in the present Tables for the years 1970 to 1972. 
When we refer to appendix D it is quite clear that there is a significant gradation over the period of time. So we ask: What life tables is it the intention to apply for the purpose of these calculations according to the regulations? Some assurance needs to be given. Again, that affects very significantly and cogently the return that is to be given to people who are either policy holders or who will receive bonuses from the life insurance companies. 
The third point which I want to mention to the Minister- I hope that he would consider it- concerns clause 32. 1 refer to clause 32 ( 13) which is dealt with on page 13 of the Bill. This determines the membership of the tribunal that shall be considering certain appeals. From line 13 onwards, certain people are debarred from being members of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The sub-clause states: 
A non-presidential member of the Tribunal shall not sit as a member of the Tribunal for the purposes of a review of a reviewable decision . . . if he is a director or employee of a company, body corporate or body carrying on ( whether in Australia or elsewhere) life insurance business or insurance business. 
That exception is fair enough and the intention of it is quite clear. But I ask the Minister: Would not it be appropriate for him to consider that insurance brokers also be debarred from sitting on the Tribunal? Insurance brokers, even in the example I cited this afternoon, and from one's experience tend to develop a relationship with an insurance company or an organisation- even a predominant relationship with an insurance company or a particular organisation. I suggest that insurance brokers should be considered as falling into the same category of being debarred as is suggested in clause 32 ( 13). It would make a number of the people in the industry rather happier than they would be with what I think is just a simple oversight. I hope that it will be considered carefully by the Minister. So the 3 clauses to which I want to refer - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  Would the honourable member for Lilley explain to me what clause of the Bill he is now debating? 
-I am debating clause 32(13). 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is not that a clause of a Bill the Committee is yet to consider? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Yes, but we have 2 Bills to deal with. I have a feeling that the honourable member for Lilley is debating the second Bill and not the first Bill. 
-I am sorry,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I am speaking to the Life Insurance Amendment Bill. Are we debating the Insurance Amendment Bill? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Exactly. 
-Nevertheless, I ask the Minister to consider my comments when replying. I would not dare repeat them when we come to deal with the Life Insurance Amendment Bill. It has been rather obvious what I have been speaking about. I have been speaking to the Life Insurance Amendment Bill. I think that my remarks have been self-explanatory. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Before I call any other honourable member, there is another small problem I wish to raise. I put the question to the Committee a while ago: 'The question is: That the new clause proposed to be amended be so amended'. In fact, the honourable member for Lilley was out of order in not debating the amendments. Might I get an indication as to whether the other 2 speakers in the debate wish to debate the amendment? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I think in this circumstance I will call the honourable member for Denison to debate the amendment. 
Am I correct? If so, I think that you should call the honourable member for Hawker first. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I will clear up this matter. I do not think I have gone far enough in my explanation to the Committee. The question before the Committee at present is 'that the amendment be agreed to'. Having disposed of that argument in a Little while on the vote of the Committee, the next question I put is 'that the Bill, as amended, be agreed to'. Quite frankly, that is the more legitimate area for debating the sort of issue raised by the honourable member for Lilley, if he were talking to the right Bill, which he was not. I would think that a direct debate on the amendment such as the honourable member for Denison says he is about to present would be proper to call on after which I will put the question and then I presume that the honourable member for Hawker would be prepared to debate the question that the Bill, as amended, be agreed to. Is that how the honourable member for Hawker would wish it? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call the honourable member for Denison. 
-I think the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  may have misunderstood what I was trying to convey earlier. I do not want him, nor would I want him, to indicate the minimum interest rate which should apply to the basis evaluation etc. I do not want him to nominate whether it be 3.5 per cent, 4.5 per cent, 5 per cent or any other figures. I merely wanted the Minister to indicate the basis upon which the judgments are to be arrived at after consultation with the Insurance Commissioner and the industry. As a matter of fact, more power and less assurances will exist now as a result of the amendment than existed previously. Previously the interest rate could not be varied other than by an amendment to the Act. If the Bill is passed, as obviously it will be passed, the interest rate will be able to be varied by regulation. But there is no guarantee as to where this will end or the basis upon which the judgment will be applied. 
I appreciate that the Minister would not want to be trapped into making a year by year random judgment, for example, on the return on assets. The latest report of the Insurance Commissioner sets out the return on assets of all classes and all companies for the 5 years to 1974. The report shows that the returns were 6.68 per cent, 6.7 1 per cent, 6.78 per cent, 6.9 1 per cent and 7.4 1 per cent respectively. There are some variations in these figures. Of course, we may be speaking in respect of the returns of a company for the year 1975-76. So one could easily get rid of odd random movements by a number of techniques which would be available to the Minister. Techniques such as moving averages and so on would certainly be available to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I suggest to the Minister that there needs to be some guarantee that the interest rate will have a relationship to what I call the index of returns which is in the Life Commissioner's report and which can be applied to the year in question. 
I would like to draw to the attention of the Minister once again- he may have forgotten what I said previously because of the confusion that arose in relation to the 2 Bills- clause 32 of the Life Insurance Amendment Bill which deals with the membership of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I mentioned the people who were debarred from membership of that body. I suggested that the Minister might consider insurance brokers being appointed to that body. 
I think it is appropriate that the Minister should consider such appointments. 
I come back to the question of interest rates. This is an important matter in respect of which there are no principles or guarantees whatsoever. Under this legislation there is less restriction on what can be done without regard to any interest rates than existed prior to the amending Bill being passed. Therefore I suggest that the Minister might consider those principles very carefully. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-This matter is of great national significance and international significance. Its importance to a large part of Australia ought not to be underestimated by this House. I am delighted that the discussion of this matter of public importance is supported by every Queensland member- the 17 on the Government side and the lone Queensland member of the Opposition. Brisbane Airport is the worst capital city airport in Australia. It is increasingly incapable of fulfilling its functions as the third airport in this nation. It falls into that position on at least 5 grounds. These grounds were best exemplified and made clear to the people of Australia when recently the International Federation of Airline Pilots Association stated that Brisbane Airport as a capital city airport did not receive the top rating that other cap.tial city airports received. Here I refer to Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Darwin. The growing inadequacy of the airport to fulfil the needs of the north of Australia is clear and something needs to be done about it. The measure that is not required is any proposal to extend the present runway. That will not satisfy the requirements of Brisbane or in fact Queensland. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  who shall speak after me, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and every honourable member who lands at the airport knows its inadequacies. It falls into that position on 5 grounds. The runway size is totally inadequate. The angle of the main runway is such that the airport cannot function properly. 
-Certainly it is a matter of great national significance. The strength of the runway is such that it is not able to serve domestic transport adequately. The instrument systems for landing are totally inadequate for an international airport. The effects on the growth of the city of Brisbane and of the south eastern corner of Queensland are increasingly detrimental. So what is required- this is a simple, straightforward requirement- is a new runway situated at an angle of several degrees to the present runway. Anything short of that will not serve its purposes. The main runway at Brisbane Airport is the shortest main runway of any capital city airport in Australia. It is for that reason that domestic aircraft cannot take off fully loaded. At Adelaide the main runway is 8 000 feet long. At Darwin it is nearly 1 1 000 feet long. At Perth the runway length is over 10 300 feet. Melbourne Airport has a maximum length runway and at Sydney there is a maximum length runway of 12 000 feet. The main runway at Brisbane Airport is only 7760 feet in length. It is quite clear that it is totally inadequate. It is those circumstances which have caused very senior authorities and responsible people to make it clear recently in a number of television interviews that something needs to be done. I will quote firstly what Captain Holt, a former  chairman  for many years of the Air Pilots Federation of Australia had to say. He stated in Brisbane on 7 April 1 977 in an interview for the  This Day Tonight  television program: 
A main runway at Brisbane airport should be north-west south-west. Present operations occur only within the limitations of Brisbane airport and again there are the larger aircraft limitations . . . The needs of the decade have already outstripped Brisbane airport and as the decade continues Brisbane will be just that more deficient as far as the airport is concerned. 
But what he is saying also, and it is quite important, is that unless the needs of that airport and the airport itself are scaled down in terms of the demand for its activities, there could be danger. In other words, the limitations of the airport must be adhered to in order that it functions safely. That is the clear imputation that can be drawn from what Captain Holt had to say.  Mr David  Pitts, the secretary of the Queensland Branch of the Civil Air Operations Officers Association made it clear that a 4000 foot extension to the Brisbane runway and a few terminal facilities are not just good enough. He said that we needed a complex equal to those of Sydney and Melbourne. Of course we do not need a complex equal to those of Sydney or Melbourne. We need one which is adequate, properly positioned and with a proper length runway. It is not there in Brisbane. 
Let me state one or two facts to the House in terms of runway size. The major aeroplanes in Australia at any temperature over 77 degrees fahrenheit- 26 degrees centigrade- cannot take off fully loaded. At times of industrial disputes or at times of strikes when Boeing 727 aircraft must carry a full load of fuel passengers must be offloaded, as has been the case in recent weeks. Aircraft involved in long domestic flights within Australia cannot take off from Brisbane Airport with a full load of fuel and a full load of passengers. That is quite disgraceful for a capital city airport. I also wish to give the House one or two details. It is now proposed by Qantas Airways Limited and British Airways Limited that Brisbane Airport function as an international airport. At any temperature over 26 degrees centigrade, those carriers will have to offload from the aircraft's fuel weight. Let me indicate to honourable members how much the international air traffic will be affected. At 34 degrees centigrade, a temperature which is often attained in Australia's largest tropical or sub-tropical city which is presumed to have an international airport, a Boeing 747 aircraft would take off 140 000 lb light. In other words, it would be 70 tonnes light. In these circumstances, it is a travesty to say that Brisbane has an adequate airport. 
Boeing 707 aircraft taking off at temperatures above 28 degrees centigrade must do so 41 000 lb light and at temperatures above 34 degrees centigrade they must take off over 51000 lb light. So at times of dispute, at times when genuine international travel is required, this airport, by its very nature, cannot do the job. The reason for which it cannot do the job is intimately related to the length of the runway. It is also clear, as Captain Holt has pointed out, that the main runway has to be shifted. The main runway has to be moved more to the west than it is at the moment. The prevailing winds are always cross winds at that airport. The plain fact is that a mistake was made years ago in the positioning of the runway. The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar),  who is a celebrated pilot in his own way and who understands these things, knows that what I am saying is perfectly correct. He lands at that airport quite often. I presume that he will continue to land at the airport quite often. But even if the runway were increased in length, the pavement strength of that airport could not do the job. More details need to be given to the House. 
An ordinary stretch version of the Boeing 727 aircraft on domestic operations in Australia has an all up weight of 90 000 kilograms. At Brisbane Airport it can operate only at an all up weight of 75 000 kilograms. But in special circumstances, those aeroplanes are allowed to operate 7 times a week to operate at a weight of 83 000 kilograms. Without boring the House with a whole mass of figures, it is clear that even for domestic aircraft the runway strength cannot do the job that is required of it. Douglas DC8 aircraft can only operate on a runway strength which is 43 000 kilograms below their all up weight. Boeing 707 aircraft can operate only 22 000 kilograms below their all up weight and Douglas DC 10 aircraft can only operate at 40 000 kilograms below their all up weight. All of these faults exist in addition to the ones which later on the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  who has a very intimate and expert knowledge of these matters, will mention when he discusses, with the peculiar expertise available to him, the lack of even the possible development of an adequate ILS landing system at the airport. That landing system for international carriers enables them to operate both ends of what is already, as I have pointed out quite clearly, an inadequate runway. 
The tragedy is that promises that have been made or implied in relation to this airport for many years have not been kept. I am delighted to see that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has come into the House to listen to this very important debate. He would know that the most important promise was that made at the end of 1971 and the end of 1972 by a former Federal government in co-operation with the Brisbane City Council and the State of Queensland. That proposition concerning the proper positioning of a main runway and a new runway is one that still holds. Many modifications of that promise and that proposal ought to be made. I ask the governments concerned to adhere to them. I hope that they do adhere to them. It is a sad reflection on that pan of Australia that these kinds of circumstances have been brought about. We hope that they will not be continued. We know that the promises made in earlier years were compounded by the greatest proposal of all which, in fact, broke what was a promise. I refer to the reports and recommendations of  Dr Coombs  which, unfortunately, were accepted in the great part by the Government which preceded this Government. The Coombs report on Brisbane Airport was the type of report which made the position increasingly difficult. 
We do know this: Something has to be done in respect of Brisbane Airport. It is increasingly inadequately able to serve its purpose. It cannot serve its present purposes. For example, I have a letter here from the present Regional Director of the Department of Transport in relation to noise abatement procedures. The Regional Director states in the last pararaph of the letter: 
I must advise you that with the growth of traffic at Brisbane there are periods of each day, which are increasing both in frequency and duration, when the traffic density is such that the preferred runway system involving take-offs over Moreton Bay and landings from Moreton Bay on the main runway, i.e., an opposite direction traffic system, cannot be used. As the volume of traffic grows our ability to employ this aspect of the noise abatement procedures progressively reduces. 
So a situation is being forced on a government and Australia in which consideration has to be given about what will be done in relation to Brisbane Airport. I say this knowing that every parliamentary member from Queensland- there are 1 8 of them, 1 7 on this side of the House- know that proposals to lengthen the present runway will not suffice. Proposals to lengthen the present runway will not cure the inadequacies to which I have referred. There is only one proposal that can be adopted and only one proposal that will serve the purposes which that airport is designed to serve. That proposal is that a runway of adequate length should exist, that there be adequate pavement strength on the runway, that the runway be positioned correctly in relation to the prevailing winds at Brisbane- the present runway is not positioned having regard to the prevailing winds- and that the runway should enable proper instrument landing systems to operate at both ends if it is to serve, even in a muted way or in a way which has some close relationship to adequacy, both as a recent domestic airport and as a totally adequate international airport. Unless those conditions are satisfied, it would be laughable, for example, to suggest that such an airport could serve the best interests of a city which is hosting the next Commonwealth Games. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that union dues represent a price to a union member as real as any other price he has to pay? Is he also aware of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' resolution that union dues be raised to one per cent of average awards with the request that the target be realised as quickly as possible? Does the Prime Minister appreciate that this means that to achieve this target at today's rate of inflation, even within 5 years, many unions would have to increase their dues by over 21 per cent a year? Would the Prime Minister therefore, in future discussions with  Mr Hawke,  and merely as a testament of good faith in time of inflation- 
-I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is there an Australian view concerning the significance that present American proposals for the withdrawal from South Korea of American troops will have for the broad range of American Western Pacific policy? Is there any concern or even hope that guarantees given with the new American policy will differ totally in their effect from the guarantees given to China from 1946 to 1948 and to South Vietnam from 1972 to 1975? 
I merely want to bring one small matter to the attention of the House and make comment on the events that occurred this week. Their significance will be projected forward both politically and industrially. I refer to the amalgamation of the Australian Workers Union and the Building Workers Industrial Union within the New South Wales jurisdiction. That amalgamation was effectively consummated last Monday night when, by a vote of eight to four on the executive, it was decided that the amalgamation should occur. The amalgamation was proposed by a vote on the executive in terms of the New South Wales Act which allows such an amalgamation to occur without any reference whatsoever to the rank and file members of either union. This does concern Australia and it will certainly concern New South Wales in the period immediately ahead. 
Within the Federal jurisdiction, we know that there has to be a reference of such a matter to the rank and file members of unions and there has to be a vote of 50 per cent of the members of the union. Half of them at least have to agree for the amalgamation to occur. The tragedy is that there has been no such reference in this case. Those who speak about amalgamations of unions so glibly without reference to the rank and file membership will have cause to ponder the significance of their suggestions and their proposals in the years ahead. Certainly, that will be the case in New South Wales. I suggest that some parts of this amalgamation will be very important for Australia because through it attempts will be made to change the federal structure of the Australian Workers Union. The Australian Workers Union has had great respect in Australia. But it is also strategically placed in that its members are concerned vitally with many of Australia's export industries, including many of Australia's great bulk export industries. I am referring to coal, iron ore, sugar and so on. Consequently, there will have to be a very close watch to see that this amalgamation does not become a method whereby the new New South Wales State union does not have the opportunity of an inflated membership to dominate the federal structure of the Australian Workers Union. 
There will be other effects not only within the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Some BWIU men Will subsequently be part of an AWU delegation to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. There will be changes within the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party. That is its problem. But the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party over the years has built a great respect in Australia because of the balance it has had. I fear both for it and for Australia. I say this quite sincerely lest that balance be upset. I put it no higher than that. 
-A number of people Will have an opportunity to be part of that delegation from New South Wales under the banner of the AWU. They previously would not have been part of the delegation sheltering under that very respected name of the Australian Workers Union. But I do not want to get into a fight concerning the position of the Australian Labor Party. I merely say that the industrial movement in that State and the ACTU will both be altered by a change in the balance that has occurred with respect to this union. I merely quote the words of the State Secretary of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association in New South Wales,  Mr O'Neill,  who, in protesting about the manner in which that amalgamation was accepted, said to the packed meeting at the Sydney Trades Hall last night: 
You are the union. You pay our wages. You should have a say. 
Of course, the men did not have a say in what occurred. I bring this matter to the attention of the House because what is predicted to happen will effect this country in the days ahead. Above aU, without retreating from the proposition for one second we say that when amalgamations in unions occur the men in the unions which are amalgamated should have a say. In the amalgamation of unions into a body which subsequently wil have assets of $5m and an income of $ 1.5m there was no rank or file say whatsoever. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Prime Minister seen a report which claims that the new tax system on 10 per cent increase in salaries and 5 per cent indexation will in 1978-79 impose a higher tax on taxable incomes last year from $4,800 to $7,400? Does he realise this claim is incorrect in that even on those assumptions the tax payable this year is less at all levels and even next year will be less at all levels except on incomes of $5,600 and $5,800 received last year? Finally, does he appreciate that this criticism assumes bipartisan support for tax indexation - 
-The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  is to be sincerely congratulated on the speech he made tonight. From his understanding of the energy requirements of Australia and of the world it is apparent that he has studied the matter for a great length of time. He told us eloquently how there had to be a shift from the present sources of energy and of power to the utilisation of nuclear energy and nuclear power. But a gap developed between his understanding of the position and his understanding of the policy which has been foisted upon the Australian Labor Party, particularly by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  In all the statements which were made in Perth and from the statements which have been made subsequent to the Perth meeting it is quite clear that the ban on uranium mining and upon the development of nuclear power was to be long term and was to be permanent. It was not to be a passing fad. The understanding of the honourable member for Hawker is that the decision is something of a temporary nature to which he is not philosophically opposed. 
The abiding tragedy of this debate is the way in which the mind of the Opposition has obviously been captured by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. I believe he has trapped his colleagues into reversing the policy which his Party enunciated in 1974 and in 1975. The clue to the mentality and psychology of this reversal of policy is given in the little booklet which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition produced recently. The booklet is entitled 'Uranium, No Bonanza, No Solution to the Economic or the Unemployment Problem'. Over and over again in every description of the uranium policy which the Opposition has had it has claimed that uranium contains very little or no real economic benefits. The Opposition is taking refuge in a state of psychological despair. It wants uranium to be useless. It wants it to confer no benefits. Every opportunity is taken to cry and to complain that uranium and nuclear energy offer nothing. 
I can only reflect historically how different that is from the party background of so many of their forebears. There is none of the hope of the big developers. Once upon a time the Australian Labor Party was the party of Australia's big developers. It had a large vision of what could be done for the country. It had a vision that the country could engage in grand development. If the present mentality had permeated and pervaded so much of the past the Snowy Mountains scheme, for example, would never have been commenced. It would have been refused on environmental, ecological or any grounds whatever. I believe that that is the clue to what is involved. Members of the Australian Labor Party have become blinkered by the minutia of events. They have used those events as an excuse to refuse reasonable and decent development for Australia and for those countries with which we trade. 
Let us look at the mining development and the way in which Australia will, through uranium mining, become a source of energy to the world as, a few years ago, it also became a new source of energy to the world in terms of coal deposits. No argument is being produced today which was not produced them. In the middle 1960s the great Queensland coal deposits began to be utilised and developed. Contracts were written with the rest of the world. Those contracts were opposed by every means possible. The reasons were similar to the reasons produced in respect of uranium. I refer to them. The contracts were opposed because it was said that we were depriving Australia of a limited resource. They were opposed because it was said then that the price which was obtained and which was obtainable was not a fair and adequate price. They were opposed then- I go back to the years 1967 and 1969- because coal would be a source of carbon monoxide development in the world, that there would be hothouse and environmental effects, and so on. Nothing new has been stated in opposition to uranium mining which was not also stated in opposition to the development of coal mining, that other source of energy and power. That situation is separated by a gap of seven, eight or nine years. We say there is no point in having blinkers on with respect to Australia's capacity or her obligation to the rest of the world. 
I have been fascinated also at the contrived despair and the false economics which have been adduced to show that even if we developed uranium mining, even if we developed all that was possible, the effects would be very smallthey would be quite minute. It is suggested that 20,000 people or 100,000 people might be supported in the long run. That is a piece of nonsense. One knows that for every person involved in mining another 4.5 people would be kept in employment feeding that process and utilising the products which come from that process in Australia. Four times that number of people are then supported in Australia in terms of the population support effect of the mining. So, at least in the first instance, we are looking at uranium mining to assist with living conditions and to support the living conditions of up to half a million people directly. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has a scowl on his face because he knows that in South Australia certain mining processes have been stopped or it is proposed to prevent them occurring. He may be interested to know, if he is concerned, about the wages and living conditions of workers in Adelaide at the Chrysler Australia Ltd car plant. Subsidies go to those employees because the industry operates under tariff and quota protection. Those subsidies will be enabled to be paid because of the viability and the strength of an industry such as the uranium mining export industry. There is no other way. The honourable member will realise that the wages paid both to management and to the workers are in excess of the net value of their efforts in the production process of motor cars. That is what is meant by tariff and quotas. The difference of several thousand dollars per worker per year is made up from industries such as uranium mining which will be able to earn the export income and thus enable the transfer to occur. I suggest to the honourable member that when he stands outside the Chrysler car company in Adelaide and he wants to preserve the economic conditions of the employees he should confess that in other parts of Australia he wants to participate in the debauching of an industry which ultimately enables those workers to enjoy the standard of living which they have. That is the precise lack of understanding which the honourable member has concerning the restructuring of Australian industry. Not a furrow is crossing his brow. I do not think he understands the position even now. I am all the sadder for it. 
There is another way in which one has to look at this matter. Australia's contribution to the world will be in terms of its contribution in trade. Australia cannot live as an isolated island. The miners at Croydon and Etheridge in Queensland in the 1880s at first ejected the people who came on to the minefields. From then onwards it became obvious that Australia could not live unto itself. We had to trade. If I could use a courtroom analogy, if a mistake is made in a courtroom it might mean injustice and squalor for one person, but if a mistake is made in terms of economic development and the ability that this country has to develop trade it might mean degradation, squalor, poverty and misery for millions. This was so beautifully and clearly pointed out by the honourable member for Hawker when he said that uranium mining, the development of nuclear power and the use of uranium as a source of power in Nigeria just had to be, otherwise Nigeria would have gone back to a camel economy. That is related to the trade of which Australia will be a source and which Australia will allow to develop so far as Nigeria is concerned, so far as South East Asia is concerned and so far as India is concerned. 
People who come into this place with bleeding hearts and say that of course we must be careful and that we must stop have been sold a bill of goods. The tragedy is that they have been sold a bill of goods by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. He was always an anti-development Minister. He has always been an anti-development member of the front bench of the Opposition. He has been one for years. He has been a zero growth man for years. The tragedy is that he has been able to thrust upon his colleagues that very distorted and short term philosophical view of Australia and its relations with the rest of the world. The rest of the world will not revolve around Australia as the satellites do around the sun. The rest of the world does not owe us anything. It knows that. We can make a contribution to the rest of the world, as it can make a contribution to us. That contribution will occur if we are sensible and use our head in respect of our resources. 
I am fascinated that members of the Opposition have engaged in a frenetic activity in respect of this debate. They have made charges concerning genetic engineering. They have made charges concerning waste disposal. They have made charges concerning the price at which uranium is available. They have made charges that all the energy needed can be developed by means of solar power and that we do not need to mine uranium to develop power. The noise, the frenetic activity, the short term misguided activity of the Opposition in respect of this matter remind me of the mating habits of the marsupial mouse. They last for only a short time and the results are too numerous to mention, but they certainly are not long term and will not be long term. I say that members of the Opposition do themselves and their Party an injustice by engaging in such a blinkered and narrow conception of what the world is about and of what Australia's contribution to the world can be. 
The argument about low level waste has always been phoney. The argument about toxic waste, the fissionable waste, has always been phoney. It is soluble. The problem can be solved. It is quite clear that all the high level waste in the world from the weapons program is greater than all the high level waste that could possibly be adduced from all the generation of power projected for the world between now and the end of the century. All the high level waste in the world which would be available in the foreseeable generation of nuclear energy would fill only this chamber. To say that the world will not have the skill and will not be able to utilise on a larger scale the skill it presently has to take care of the waste, I believe, is an abuse of what human ingenuity and human rationality can produce. 
We say that the mining of uranium should proceed, and should proceed carefully and with sense. We do not agree with those who suggest that because there may be difficulties we should do nothing. If that philosophy were to have been adopted in the past neither Australia nor the world would ever have done anything. To slip into that position does us an injustice and condemns unnecessarily to misery, squalor, degradation and despair those countries and the millions of people who are dependent upon Australia for an improvement in their standard of living. No government with any kind of heart could make itself a party to that kind of outlook on the world. 
-This afternoon we have witnessed an incredible performance. It has been my pleasure, or displeasure, to listen to the debate. I have not heard for a long time such whining, whingeing and crying over a Budget as I have heard over the Budget presented to this House by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on behalf of the Government. The complaints that have come from the Opposition can only be categorised as pee-wee economics. Like pee-wees, honourable members opposite have run around the bush picking up any little tit-bits of food in order to digest it They have picked up any information and digested it. After digesting it they have then put it forward as their own considered proposition on the economic government of this country. This afternoon they have had a field day complaining and whingeing about the Budget. The tragedy is that they are so misinformed. Like that proverbial little bird they have produced nothing. 
We know that any work to be done by a Budget is proportionate to the task which lies before it. The task that lay before the Government needs to be understood. I do not say this as an apologia. I say it merely by way of presenting the facts to the Australian people. The historical facts are these: A unique position and task were presented to the Government. It had to perform two tasks. It had to resuscitate the Australian economy and at the same time it had to transfer resources from the public sector to the private sector. That is one of those technical economic terms. In fact it had to transfer resources from the Government to households where people live and work, where they are born and where they die, where they are happy or unhappy. No government in Austalian history has had to perform two tasks at the same time. 
Let me give examples going over 40 years. When Lyons succeeded Scullin in the government of this country Lyons did not have to perform the two tasks of resuscitating the economy and transfering resources from the public sector to the private sector. He had to perform only the first of those tasks. When Menzies succeeded Chifley he had only to transfer resources into a decent rate of growth of the Australian economy. The economy was running well. Inflation was only incipient and the public sector had not taken over. When Fraser succeeded Whitlam there had to be double tasks. I know that this House in its fair mindedness would appreciate the double task that lay before this Government. Let me give an illustration. Illustrations always make matters perfectly clear. When this Government came into power the country had gone through what would be described as a new experience. Economically it had gone through what was known as negflation. It had a negative rate of growth of productivity and at the same time it had a very high and a growing rate of inflation. A new word had to be coined, even in this place, to describe what occurred. In addition, Australian households were being robbed. They were being taken for a ride with every tax take. 
History comes to our protection in describing the position. When Chifley went out of power every earned dollar that went into an Australian household had to surrender only 28c of that dollar to government. When Fraser followed Whitlam 37c was being taken out of every earned dollar in an Australian household. That position had to be reversed at the same time as attempting to resuscitate the Australian economy. These facts are totally and completely incontrovertible. So I understand quite clearly why, in trying to clutch at a multitude of disparate elements this afternoon, the Opposition has descended into what I call pee-wee economics, grabbing bits of the Budget's information where it could but digesting nothing. Of course, there was another problem which the Government faced. A decent appreciation of economic events in Australia over the last 30 years has to acknowledge these facts. 
When an economy resuscitates from a trough to a peak there has always been a time lag. The time lags involved in every such resuscitation since World War II have been variously between 18 and 27 months. I am referring to the 1951 period, to the 1955-56 period, to the events of late 1960 to 1963, to a small period from 1965 to 1966 and of course from late 1970 to well into 1972. We know that the time lag on this occasion has been longer than it has been in the past. The time lag has been longer because the task has been greater. Nevertheless there are clear signs of success in resuscitating the Australian economy. One of them is quite clear. For example, let us look at the matter of inflation. This is one of the great catalysts of depression throughout the world. The summary of the report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on producing stability in an economy as between inflation and unemployment acknowledged that such a time lag was involved, and such a time lag in order to be traversed required that inflation be overcome. 
Just as one example I pick out of the air, yesterday there was released in this country the quarterly estimates of national income and expenditure. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  would immediately appreciate the validity and the probity of the information in that document. If one calculates the rate of inflation from the quarterly estimates of national income and expenditure released yesterday one would know immediately the rate of inflation as disclosed by that document. The implicit price deflator, the total one, showed that the June on June- June 1977 compared with June 1976- rate of inflation was 9.13 per cent. These are single digit figures. If one refines those figures even a little more - 
-As the honourable member would know and as the Reserve Bank makes it clear in its own documents, the consumer price index has been following the implicit price deflator down. The implicit price deflator has been leading the consumer price index down for a number of quarters. Let me go on a little further. If that calculation is adjusted for what is known as the statistical discrepancy and the increases in stocks, the June to June rate of inflation was in fact 9.4 per cent. So those in the Opposition who said that a single digit rate of inflation was not obtainable must accept that their facts are not verifiable in terms of the data produced by the national income and expenditure details released yesterday. We ask only that those facts be acknowledged. They deserve to be acknowledged. The time lag is there. We know it is there and that it is longer than it has been in the past. But there are some people who say that resuscitating an economy can be like making love to an elephant. If there is success there is no result for years; if there is no success you can be trampled m the rush. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh can make his own personal judgments from his own experience. We know that the first applies and not the second. 
I would now like to say something about the taxation system that has been introduced by the Government. I can always have quarrels in detail concerning any taxation system. But if an economy is to be resuscitated by means of a taxation system immediately it has to be acknowledged that the philosophy of that resuscitation is that it has to be done predominantly through the household sector. Of course, there is an appropriate place for the public sector for the stabilisation of any economy. But the household sector has to, and will be and is, deputed to take a leading role in this respect. 
-No, it is not. When the Opposition was in power any worker on average earnings who was working and decided to take an extra day's overtime was up for $35 to $40 a day in tax. Under the new rate of tax which will apply from February next year a worker in this same situation will receive an extra $12 to $15 a day for the day's overtime that he would be willing to work. It is no wonder that so many people said that they would not work under the old system. 
-To raise their standard of living, to increase their household income, to produce more goods for Australia so that the prosperity of Australians will increase. 
The honourable member complains about working for 80 hours a week. He works overtime every week and he complains about it. That is part of the case that is made on his behalf to the various tribunals. The new tax system is designed to help those who are able to work. In addition, we should look at the taxation multiplier, the multiplier which determines the amount which government receives by way of taxation for every one per cent increase that a worker receives by way of salary. Under the previous Government, for every one per cent increase in salary that was sustained by a person the increase in government revenue was of the order of two per cent. It was the highest multiplier in Australian history. This was not under Chifley, not under Scullin but under Whitlam, and under Whitlam as defended by the honourable member for Gellibrand. Under this Government, because of tax indexation, the only increases that were sustained occurred when there was an increase in salary that was a real increase in excess of the rate of inflation. 
One needs to remember when a criticism is made of the taxation system that the Opposition, both when in government and through its economic committee, opposed the principle and the facts of tax indexation. One of the unstated assumptions of the Press when it has run criticism of the present taxation system is that the Opposition in government would have implemented tax indexation or that it was in fact in favour of it. It was neither. It argued against tax indexation. Its economic committee examined a paper against tax indexation prepared by Pat Lanigan, a former Deputy Commissioner of Taxation. This Government has adopted the principle of indexation and has made it an integral part of its own taxation system. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I know that you are listening to every word that has been spoken in this Parliament. It would be immediately obvious to you, therefore, that the tax system which this Government is implementing has the lowest multiplier as an inducement to government revenue of any system we have had for many years. It is of the order of half the multiplier to government revenue that existed under the Opposition. We do not want to criticise the Opposition. We only ask that in a spirit of fairness and in a spirit of honesty the Opposition acknowledge what has been done. 
This afternoon it was my pleasure, or my displeasure, to listen to clever people from the Opposition. They are all clever and they spoke about the work force. They spoke about the rate of increase of job opportunities in Australia. In reading Budget Statement No. 2 they forgot one thing, namely, that the rate of increase of the employed Australian work force June on June this year will reverse the worst trend set in train by the previous Government beginning in the middle of 1974. History always represents some useful information. The period from June 1974 to December 1975 was one in which there was the greatest decline in the employed Australian work force at any time subsequent to the demobilisation of the Australian armed forces in 1944-45. The employed Australian work force declined by 60,000 in the last 18 months of the previous Government. In the first 18 months of this Government there was a further decline in the work force of the order of 27,000 and of course we are not happy about that. But my goodness, it is less than half the previous Government's performance. But from June 1977 to June 1978, on the most conservative calculations in economic statement No. 2, the employed work force is deputed to increase by something in excess of 90,000 people. We want it to be more. We would like it to be more. But we ask only that what is to be accomplished by this Budget be acknowledged. 
The trend has been reversed. Even on the most conservative target, even if there is to be only in excess of a two per cent rate of growth in the total Australian product, the reverse will be quite absolute in terms of the performance of the previous Government. I suggest to members of the Opposition that they be fair, that they always acknowledge the time lag that is involved in terms of economic events. 
It has been my intention this evening to produce a number of hard facts which might displace members of the Opposition from the preconceived notions they have as to the way in which the economy is to be managed. I hope the hard facts will be acknowledged for the hard facts that they are. The rate of inflation is far less than the rate that applied under the previous Government. The rate of increase of the employed work force represents a total reversala complete reversal- of what was the previous Government's abysmal performance. I can remember the honourable member for Gellibrand, who is constantly interrupting me this evening, defending the position when the work force was declining by 60,000 during the last 18 months of the Labor Administration. He was a very loyal member of his party. He was not to be obfuscated or confused by the facts. Loyalty to his own Party required- and it is a great quality to have- that he in fact defend what was occurring. I produce only some of these facts to make clear what is happening in Australia, what has happened and what is going to happen over the succeeding nine months. There is an old racecourse suggestion concerning a socialist government. I have all the racecourses in Brisbane in my electorate. The suggestion I mention also relates to tax. People say that if you have an enemy, give him a racehorse and he will spend the rest of his life working for it. If you have an enemy you should also give him a socialist government and he will spend the rest of his life working for it. 
-My concern is at some recent statements about Brisbane Airport. As would be very well known to this Government and members of this House, the Commonwealth Games are to be held in Brisbane in 1982. A number of statements have been made about the adequacy of that airport to serve the Games. It should be quite clear that the airport will not be able to serve the Commonwealth Games adequately. I merely relate one or two facts to make that crystal clear. 
-It would be clear even to the honourable member for Port Adelaide. The only circumstance under which that airport will be able to serve those Games adequately is if it operates as a secondary and second-rate commuter airport to which international travellers to Australia will commute after having landed at places such as Sydney, Melbourne, Darwin and the other major airports in Australia. I have recounted the facts about the airport previously, but one or two further facts need to be made known. Recently a director of Qantas Airways Ltd,  Sir John  Egerton, toured Brisbane Airport with two other directors of Qantas. He had some interesting things to say about his visit. I quote from the  Sunday Sun  of 4 September of this yean 
Brisbane Airport is about to become an international joke',  Sir John  said. 
We are extremely concerned. 
The airport is inadequate, and the worst feature is there is very little prospect of upgrading it in time for the Games' ... It was the first time the delegation of three Qantas directors had inspected Brisbane Airport . . . 'The overseas terminal is functional. It might not be an architect's joy or an aesthete's delight, but at present the terminal is able to handle the traffic. 
It is the main runway that is the big problem. Brisbane Airport needs a new runway*. 
The evidence for that statement is quite overwhelming. No substantial international planes can take of fully loaded from Brisbane Airport. That is logical, because it has the shortest runway of all the Australian capital cities and Alice Springs. For Australia's third airport, designed to serve the Commonwealth Games, it is totally inadequate. 
I illustrate the position. Recently, during the strike by technicians in the United Kingdom, planes of an international carrier- I will not name it- were delayed around the world. A jumbo operated by that carrier operates into Brisbane Airport. That carrier operates into Brisbane Airport, but only on short hops from Brisbane to Sydney or Brisbane to Darwin. Because planes were many hours and many days late this operator decided to go to Singapore from Brisbane. Planes go quite easily from Sydney to Singapore, from Sydney to Manila, from Sydney to 
Hong Kong and from Sydney to Bangkok, but they cannot travel to those places from Brisbane. So this airline decided to operate from Brisbane to Singapore. The operator put 400 passengers on board-60 fewer than its complement. Eight to ten tons of cargo had to be off-loaded to lighten the load of the plane so that it could make the distance. The plane had to operate in the dead of night in the coldest months in winter with a favourable wind. It was able to make the trip from Brisbane to Singapore, but only in those circumstances. 
And only just. 
The honourable member for Griffith has studied those matters very closely. I thank him for his advice. That merely illustrates the gravity and tragedy of the problem. The plane had to operate in the cold and in the dark for the flight to be successful. That is very unlike the intellectual processes in this place. 
I make it clear that that airport will not only be unable to serve the Games as an international airport but also it cannot serve the area today adequately as an international airport. Those visitors who come to the Games thinking they are coming in economical, fully loaded flights, at a minimum fare and with the maximum ability to travel the maximum distance from the airport, which would reduce the cost of travel, will not be able to do that from that airport during the Games. That needs to be understood. Certain people say that planes are able to use the airport adequately. The planes can do so only if they operate at a substandard level of economic efficiency, off-loading fuel, cargo or passengers. They are certainly not able to operate from such an airport in a sub-tropical city in the months of September and October when the tarmac temperatures will be in the vicinity of at least 30 degrees. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
Has any request been made to the People's Republic of China concerning the broadcasts beamed to South East Asia, known under the name of  The Voice of Thailand  and  Radio Suara Revolusi Malaya- the Voice of Malayan Revolution. 
If so, has a request been made that these broadcasts cease promoting insurrection and revolution, when was the request made and under what circumstances. 
What has been the response of the People's Republic of China. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 17 August 1977. 
1 ) What was the balance of trade between Australia and each of the ASEAN countries during each of the years 1972 to 1976, inclusive, as calendar years are used in those countries as the basis of computation. 
What was the net currency movement between Australia and these countries during each of the years 1972 to 1976, inclusive, having regard to monetary movements and invisibles, exclusive of contributions to multilateral trade agencies. 
-That speech was totally out of character for the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  It was a vindictive, personal, nasty and totally venomous speech which lasted for 10 minutes. I have always respected the honourable member for Shortland but can only think that today the whips have been out for him to deliver a certain kind of product. I merely respond in one sentence: All the costs that have been mentioned in speeches this morning added together do not come close to the cost of  Blue Poles.  If honourable members opposite are going to cry for one lot of people they should cry for another and look at their own activities. 
The expansion of the world historically has depended upon the principle which has been utilised so often by some of the great nations, that trade follows the flag. That has been further developed these days and now the flag tends to follow trade if it is to follow anything. That certainly means something in respect of development for the development of nations follows trade. So often in the past the medium for that development has been the medium of trade and the medium of the sea ports of the world. The new development in the area has been that the airports of the world have become the agencies whereby trade is enabled to become consummated. So we have in the developing parts of the world a simple principle: If you have an adequate airport you have the facilities for development; if you stultify an airport you can stultify and stunt development of that community. That is why I continue to be concerned about Brisbane airport. This morning I want to deal with one or two comments which have been made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  This is not done in a venomous or vindictive way; it is done because I think that the Minister has been subject to very serious misinformation. I refer to a letter he wrote to the Australian National Travel Association in Queensland. It was addressed to the Queensland Manager,  Mr Claringbould,  and related to the Brisbane airport. I shall quote two sentences from that letter because they worry me. The first is: 
In respect of Brisbane airport there are no real restrictions imposed on international movements at that airport by either the runway or the recently completed International Terminal facilities. 
I will deal with that sentence now because it is grossly in error. The Minister stated that there were 'no real restrictions'. I have available the flight habits of four international carriers, Boeing 707 aircraft, DC 10 aircraft, Qantas 747 aircraft and British Airways 747 aircraft. A Qantas 707 aircraft taking off from Brisbane airport with no freight but with 170 passengers and luggage, which is not the highest configuration, at 25 degrees centigrade cannot get to the nearest international port, Singapore. In fact, it falls 700 nautical miles short. At 34 degrees centigraderemember that this is a sub-tropical city international airport- its range is 1,000 nautical miles short of Singapore let alone Bangkok, Manila, Hong Kong or other ports which are available from both Sydney and Melbourne. A DC10 aircraft at 25 degrees centigrade with 300 passengers and luggage and no freight has a range which is at least 400 nautical miles short. At 34 degrees centigrade it is well over 550 nautical miles short of Singapore; so the aircraft cannot go to an international airport. The Qantas Airways Ltd 747, the new model - 
MrJull-The747B. 
-Yes, the 747B, at 25 degrees centigrade, not with the tourist configuration, with no freight and with 404 passengers, which is not the highest number of passengers, has a range which is 300 nautical miles short. At the higher temperature it is 450 nautical miles short. The British Airways aircraft, with the same configuration and with no freight, has either to unload passengers or to fly a shorter distance and land at Darwin or Sydney, where no real restrictions are imposed on international movements. At the lower temperature the British Airways aircraft has a range of 900 nautical miles short of Singapore. At the higher temperature its range is well over 1,000 nautical miles short of Singapore. 
What concerns me is that the Minister for Transport- he is an excellent person and is not given to providing misinformation- has been very seriously misinformed. In the last sentence of that letter, which was written to the Queensland Board of the Australian National Travel Association and so is a public document, the Minister for Transport had this to say: 
The main runway is adequate in length and strength for current and immediately foreseeable international aircraft traffic. 
That is nonsense. It is not correct. Of course, he might apply the circuitous reasoning that the traffic is not high and therefore the facilities will not be made available. But, in fact, if we deny the faculties the traffic will not be there. So what should be an international airport becomes a second-rate domestic commuter airport. That is precisely what it is. It is for that reason that I have put two questions on notice to the Minister. I hope that he will answer them. I have asked him: 
Will he inquire - this concerns his own State of Victoria- whether Qantas and the other international carriers to Australia would be content to have the main runway at Tullamarine airport 7,760 feet in length. 
If that imposed no real restrictions, then no doubt the carriers would be delighted to have the Tullamarine runway length reduced by about 5,000 feet. Would the Minister be satisfied if, in fact, that were the length of the main runways at Tullamarine, Sydney or even Adelaide, which is the city from which the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  comes? Adelaide does not claim to be an international airport. It is not situated in a position where it would be, but its runway is significantly longer. So we continue to be concerned at the misinformation and misunderstanding which surround this issue. Members from Queensland have increased their concern. I shall take every opportunity to see that the truth is made known and that the facts are allowed to speak for themselves. 
One further factor is that the capacity of the Brisbane Airport is limited. Calculations on the time at which that airport would come to capacity have been seriously in error. It has been suggested that it would be in the late 1 980s or the early 1990s. That capacity will be reached up to 10 years earlier than the original estimate because the growth of aircraft movements since the late 1960s has been at least two per cent a year in excess of the basis of the original calculations. Three of those years have been years of some recession in the aircraft industry. The recession, in terms of total movements, is now passing away. In fact, by the time of the Commonwealth Games, if the present position continues, there will be a queueing of aircraft in relation to Brisbane Airport. The queueing of aircraft in relation to an airport occurs just before that airport comes to its total capacity. So the time scale in which decisions have to be made concerning the promised new runway, for which support is total, is very short. The time scale is much shorter than people imagine. I know that the Minister will take these things to heart and respond to them. 
My final point is that airports have an important relationship to the economic development of the community. Whereas once it was seaports, airports are the basis of the new means of travel in this century. If Australia's development is to proceed on the path which we expect in the years to come- that is, in the north and the westQueensland and Western Australia will be- in fact they are- the most quickly developing parts of Australia. That will be an incontestible fact of life. The Industries Assistance Commission's concern about the structure of the Australian economy is a reflection of that fact. It will be an utter absurdity, therefore, if the most quickly developing parts of Australia are to be the only parts which will be served with a totally inadequate airport, both domestic and international. That is the position at the moment. The time scale during which firm decisions have to be made is much shorter than the original calculations on capacity presumed it to be. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1977: 
1 ) In view of Turkey 's present problem in meeting import payments, what proportion of exports to Turkey have been covered by the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation in the last 2 years. 
Have Australian exporters been advised of the problems by the Government or the EFIC. 
How many and which countries have failed to meet, or are slow at meeting, their import costs at Australian exporters' expense. 
How much has this cost the EFIC. 
Is all money eventually recovered by the EFIC. 
How much have Australian exporters lost in a possible payment gap. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
Having regard to the doctrine that truly competitive enterprise delivers the best services to consumers, what is considered to be the minimum size national and international market for viable competition in the areas of telephone and telegraphic communication. 
What growth rate is considered to be necessary for these competitive services to be viable. 
What would be the benefits to the consumer in this area were companies in direct competition to offer similar services. 
Has any study been undertaken on this matter; if so, when. If not, is it possible for a study to be undertaken. 
-The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  is an enthusiast with respect to mining, and he is respected for being an enthusiast. I have always thought that he has tried to be fair insofar as his party would allow him to be fair. He has had to carry some lead weights in the saddle. The lead weights are put there as a result of his party's policy and as a result of some of the conference decisions of his party. I want to deal with those matters because I was fascinated that he should mention at great length that his opposition to this matter rested only on the proposition that there was a failure to announce a compensating, secondary or super profits or resources tax on companies which will benefit by the abolition of the export coal levy. The Opposition, putting itself in the position of saying that it will not oppose this proposition if the Government would do something about taxes in other fields, fails completely to remember its policy on taxation and those upon whom it levied the tax rate. 
Let it never be forgotten that the principal source of revenue from taxation when the Opposition was in Government- the honourable member for Blaxland was not responsible for this- was the taxation upon the ordinary person who had only the price of his own labour to sell. That was Labor's policy. It is not sufficient to come into this House, to cry and to say: 'If we were in government we would change. We would keep our tax policies low, but we would hit somehow or other those coal exporters who are able to mine and export coal and earn export income for this country'. Not for one moment does the Opposition retreat from the idea of a tax levy upon the coal industry. Basically it does not retreat from that position. In a practical manner and in a theoretical manner, that was a gross and a very grave error. 
The Opposition forgets that those commodities upon which it imposed the tax are commodities which are subject to very large cyclical movements in price because they are subject to world market prices. It was all right to propose a levy upon coal when it was at the top of the boom, when the price had risen for a number of years, but when a tax is kept on that commodity and when one realises that the price of coal today, compared with its price a couple of years ago, is 1 5 per cent or 20 per cent below that price in real terms, what does one do about the tax which was imposed- a commodity tax, an export levy tax? Does one put it on and put it off from year to year? The idea of a commodity tax does not work. Apply it to coal- the down-swings in price are as great as the up-swings in price. Do it with copper- the oscillations in price are easily as great and as severe. Do it with sugar. Honourable members know what happens with sugar. Do it with the other products which are produced from commodities such as coal. I refer to steel. They are all subject to wide cyclical movements in price. 
In practice and in theory, the idea of a commodity tax on these items does not work, has never worked and is not in Australia's best interests. I am astounded that this proposition remains in a country which is short, and increasingly short, of export income. The debate earlier today concerned the negative balance on current account and the negative balance on the balance of payments. As soon as one talks about either of those matters one is talking about the capacity of a country to export. If one imposes a tax on those commodities which are responsible for getting one's exports, one is flying in the face of any economic or social rationality whatsoever. 
I am disappointed that the Opposition continues to adopt the policies that it has adopted. That is wrong. I instance what happened when this coal levy was first put on. It is not sufficient to say that it was merely intended to shoot at the Utah organisation. A lot of bystanders were caught in the grapeshot as well. In 1974-75, the year in which this new tax was put on, 12 of the great coal exporters in this country had returns on historical cost levels of below 15 per cent. They had no indexation; no bringing up to present value of their capital equipment. Yet they were to have this extra levy imposed upon them. That is against common sense and economic rationality. 
I believe- I am disturbed about this-that I see once again the great influence of the policies of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in this respect. He feels that we can hit the mining industry. He has said this ad infinitum. He has said that we can hit the mining industry repeatedly and it does not matter. He has said that after all it is not a great employer of labour; it is a very capital intensive industry; therefore it can be susceptible. People who make that kind of statement forget or do not understand that the exports of the mining industry enable wages to be paid to workers and profits to be paid to those who have invested capital in Australia's great protected industries. In other words, it is a transfer from the export industries that enables wages to be paid, in excess of the value added as a result of production, to workers at the Adelaide motor vehicle plant of Chrysler Australia Ltd. lt is the export income earned from coal which enables wages to be paid, in excess of the value added as a result of production, to those employed in Australia's great textile and apparel industries in Victoria. That is part of the necessary interconnection of Australian industry. 
So, to pick out, as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has sought to do repeatedly, and as has been followed by his party, an industry which is capital intensive and which does not in the first line of work have a large labour force, is to do irreparable harm not only to the people in that industry and to the people who have invested in it but to people in other parts of Australia whose returns depend upon exports earned far away from them. That applies particularly in States such as Queensland and Western Australia, parts of New South Wales and so on. It is a serious misunderstanding in which the Opposition indulges, and it is not to Australia's benefit that the misunderstanding should be persisted with. 
This country in future will have, and today has, if it is to achieve the economic prosperity which it has had, a limited ability to take in its own washing. It will not be gained from the rate of growth of its domestic market. It will not be able to generate a great rate of growth in terms of the production of its own industry or of the demands from its own industry. It simply means that in the long run the great generative industries in Australia will be the export industries. It is the transfer from those export industries which enables the massed work force in many of the large cities of Australia to be supported, and it is necessarily so. It is the lack of understanding of that proposition which ought to concern every person in this House. In this kind of circumstance the Labor Party reminds me of a suicide squad- it picks a target, faces inwards and destroys itself. It also destroys the Australian work force and its prospects. I had hoped that it would not indulge in this kind of ludicrous economic rubbish and nonsense. These matters have to be mentioned. 
Two further matters in respect of the coal industry are important. One of them is the current seamen's strike in relation to exports by Utah from north Queensland. Certain features of that strike ought to be comprehended and understood. One of the interesting features of the strike is that the rule that is being relied upon is known as the 40:40:20 rule, which is a recommendation of the International Labour Office which was never adopted except by some landbound African States. The rule is that 40 per cent of a country's exports and 40 per cent of its imports should be transported in ships manned by seamen of that particular country. This applies to both the exporting and the importing country. Twenty per cent of those exports can go relatively free. The Seamen's Union, as a general background to its negotiations is relying upon that principle. 
The second principle upon which it is relying to generate the strike and the tragic set of circumstances for which it is responsible is that the Spanish seamen on those ships are not being paid sufficiently. It just happens that the union forgets to apply those principles in respect of, for example, Russian ships which transport goods to and from Australia. Russian ships have increased their transportation of goods to and from Australia from about 10 per cent to 20 per cent. The wages of their seamen are far below what is being paid to Spanish seamen. But what is a crime with respect to Spanish seamen is ignored with respect to Russian seamen, some of whom are paid a little over $80 a month. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
Which Australian Standard Industry Classification groups of industries receive (a) nominal, and (b) effective, rates of tariff protection in the highest quartile group of Australian industries receiving protection. 
What has been the rate of growth of the work force employed in those industries since 1968. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That Australia needs to retain and preserve amicable and friendly relations with Indonesia, without allowing that relationship to be poisoned by a campaign directed and supported  from  Australia in relation to East Timor. 
-Clause 7 to which the amendment has been moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is at the heart of the BUI. It details the amount of money in respect of which guarantees are to be given. If anything is to be found about the capital funds and the nature of the Bill, it is found in clause 7. 1 suggest that the amendment moved by the Opposition- without being unkind- is a fiddling amendment. The amount of money proposed for which a guarantee may be appropriated is very small. After all, what is proposed is only a guarantee. There may be a passage of no money whatsoever. So when one looks at the capital funds required and the gap which exists in the provision of capital funds for schools, one sees that an amendment such as this would inhibit the flexibility which a government has in allowing an amount of more than $10m to be guaranteed in any one year. That is an unnecessary and, I think, burdensome restriction. 
Let me illustrate what I am saying. When one looks at the capital funds spent on education at the school level, not at the tertiary level, one sees that they are quite immense. For example, in 1975-76, $383m was spent on capital funds for school education in Australia. The amount which was available from public sources for nongovernment schools was $25m. This Bill proposes to give a guarantee so that some of those schools can raise a loan which they have to pay back with the advantage of having a guarantee. The guarantee might enable such a school to go to a better institution to gain a loan at a lower interest rate. A school might decide not to go to a building society or a financial corporation. It may be able to go to a bank and get the better terms which are appropriate to a bank. If the guarantee which is to be given slips over $10m without the passage of money the Opposition would require an immediate accountability. I believe that that is a fiddling, unnecessary restriction. 
For example, let us look at the States' role in this matter. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith is a broad-minded and fairminded man. He was sympathetic to the general measure designed to be satisfied by this Bill. I immediately give him all those virtues. I hope he will count them as virtues. One or two facts need to be indicated so that any extra amount of assistance which may be given can be seen in perspective. In 1975-76, according to calculations that I have done of the Government's contribution towards capital expenditure on schools in Australia, State governments gave $260m to government schools but to nongovernment schools they gave only an interest concession of $2.6m. That is $1 for every $100 spent on capital expenditure was given to nongovernment schools. This could involve a little school in the electorate of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  We are not talking about the Melbourne Grammar School or the Geelong Grammar School. We are not talking about the Kings School which is not very far from where the honourable member lives. We are talking about the Blacktown Convent or some school like that. Such schools get $1 out of every $100 spent by State governments in this field. 
If the Commonwealth Government slips in an extra guarantee over $ 10m let us be fair and not measure immediately what is done. Let us be fair minded and open minded about the matter. The Commonwealth Government is more generous. Often it has to pick up the tab for what State governments do not do. In 1975-76 the Commonwealth Government gave $ 123m directly for capital expenditure on government schools and $22m for non-government schools. So out of a total of $383m non-government got nearly $25m. The parents of children attending these schools are not wealthy people. They are people on average award wages. The father is on an average award wage with a wife and a few children. The question is: How much do we expect them to contribute out of each week's take-home pay in order to build a new classroom at the local school? The school might be Blackheath College in Townsville. It might be one of the Bush Brothers schools which exist in some parts of Queensland. It might be the Cunnamulla Convent. How much extra do honourable members opposite expect the parents to pay? In order to assist such schools we might say: 'We will slip in a guarantee that year of not $10m but $llm. You pay the interest and the principal but we will guarantee you'. Are honourable members opposite going to try to monitor that amount and to check for every dollar which is spent? The situation has to be looked at against the background under which we operate. 
I come to 1976-77. My calculations might be slightly out but they are of the correct order. In 1976-77 the State governments' contribution to State schools for capital expenditure- I am only talking about capital expenditure- was $309m. State governments ' contributions in that year for capital expenditure towards non-government schools was about $2.7m or $2. 8m. Let us look at the gap. The Commonwealth Government has been fairer. It has been more generous. It gave $124m for government schools directly and about $24.5m for non-government schools. When we look at the total we see that we are not talking about rich people and the wealthy of this country. We are not talking about people whose only fear of a taxation system is that somebody might bring in a capital gains tax. We are talking about ordinary people who send their kids to non-government schools. They are not the wealthy schools of this nation. I suggest to honourable members opposite that any measure which gives a little bit of leeway in order to make up a modicum of the gap in terms of the guarantee should not be looked at askance. We should not look with a jaundiced eye at the proposal. After all, in this area- this has to be borne in mind- the Commonwealth has to distort its contribution in order to make up for what the State governments are not doing. If anybody is mean in this area it is the State governments. They do not have a good record. They have a very poor record- 1 do not desire to introduce politics into the matter. 
-No, I will not. I acknowledge immediately the sense and the sensibility of the honourable member for KingsfordSmith. The worst governments in Australia happen to be located in South Australia and New South Wales. Tasmania has slipped out from having the worst government; it is on a par with some of the others. 
So you will appreciate immediately,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  the argument that I am putting. Let us be a little bit magnanimous in relation to this matter and let us not be pennypinching. We should not allow ourselves to appear to be mean. I know that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has moved this amendment only because it was proposed in the Senate and he has to do it. It has been proposed in the Senate and out of loyalty he has to put the proposition forward. I simply ask that it be considered in the context of the total situation. The total situation of these schools has deteriorated; it is worse today than it was five, six or seven years ago. Most of these schools have the lowest measurable physical standards in Australia. That is no reflection on them; it is a fact of life. So, out of a sense of fairness and out of a sense of justice, I say that an amendment such as that proposed would deprive these schools of some small amount of assistance which could be given under discretion, and the amendment ought to be rejected. 
I am concerned tonight with foreign policy. On 26 August 1975 the former Prime Minister made it quite clear in this House that Australia would refuse to participate in a peace-keeping role in East Timor and would not co-operate with the decolonisation of that territory. What concerns me is that consistently since that statement there has been a continuous deterioration in relations between Australia and Indonesia and the circumstances in which that deterioration has occurred and has been engineered deserve to be exposed. Former  Senator Willesee  in the Senate affirmed and supported the statement of the then Prime Minister. Australia having rejected a role and having made it quite clear that she had rejected it, some people in this country adopted the role of being stern critics not of East Timor but in an endeavour to allow a serious deterioration to occur in Australia-Indonesia relations. It was done for quite false reasons. The fact was clearly highlighted by the former Prime Minister on the television program  Monday Conference  on 19 September this year in response to questions asked by the compere,  Mr Bob  Moore. They spoke about a report in the  Australian  which was wrongly attributed to the former Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I will read one sentence in relation to that matter.  Mr Moore  said: 
The strength of your reaction to that was understandable - 
The Leader of the Opposition said: 
No, but the point is this: I am not going to have a newspaper saying that I am advocating war with Indonesia. I am not going to have a newspaper saying that. 
The statement had to be corrected.  Mr Whitlam  was quite correct in what he said and in what he did on that occasion. It is the way in which human rights have been used selectively in order to direct, determine and sour relations between Australia and Indonesia which distresses me. The person who quite obviously has had the power and the authority to determine those relations has been the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  The selectivity of human relations in determining foreign policy is always a dangerous course. 
I shall traverse a few years of history in the two minutes left to me. When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, on behalf of his Party, was determining relations between Australia and Russia the denials of human relations in Russia, such as the pogroms in Russia, were never utilised as a reason to sour relations. The same situation occurred with respect to China. The same situation occurred with respect to Vietnam. The denial of human relations and the persecutions which occurred in that country are obvious and are clearly attested to as a fact of history. In Cambodia pogroms are occurring which are as great as those which occurred under Stalin in Russia. Phnom Penh has deteriorated from a city of several million people to one of less than 500,000 people. That situation has not been utilised to sour and determine Australia's relations with Cambodia. 
In relation to the old India-China conflict of 1962, a passing reference was made to the annexation of part of Indian territory by China. The attitude of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on that occasion was: 'A plague upon both your houses'. The principle which has been quite clear in determining the policy of both the Australian Labor Party and of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition with respect to a whole series of countries, such as Russia, China, Vietnam, Cambodia, and India, has not applied in relation to Indonesia. I am sad because I have had to watch that deterioration over recent days. I believe the situation has been engineered for a purpose far beyond any narrow, late or sensitive concern for human relations as they occur in East Timor. Atrocities have occurred in Timor but a nation treads a very serious and dangerous couse when it allows a selective interpretation of those rights to direct its own foreign policy. It is certainly not in the interests of relations between Australia and the largest of the nations of the Association of South East Asian Nations. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 8 August 1977: 
With the proposed withdrawal of United States Forces from Korea, Okinawa, Hawaii and Clark Field in the Philippines, what is Australia 's commitment to: 
improve the condition of the Asian peoples and 
the defence of those areas in regard to Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Without in any way attempting to downgrade Australia's concern with human rights, can he guarantee that relations with Indonesia will not be allowed to be dictated adversely by any campaign conducted in Australia in relation to East Timor? 
I rise to make an unprepared speech for a couple of minutes. After listening to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  I want to say that some men can be their own worst enemy while others can be the bitterest enemy of their friends. That is the precise type of proposition put in the speech by the honourable member for Hindmarsh tonight. He looked at the determination of the Remuneration Tribunal and tried to make a distorted comparison between that and what is happening in Victoria today in an effort to justify those events and events in that State over the past few years. What disgusts me is that that kind of case is being made increasingly by the Opposition yet over and over again members of the Opposition come to me and pleaded that the determinations of the Remuneration Tribunal, the body they are now criticising directly, should have been higher than they were. In order to obtain cheap and sordid popularity with members such as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is in the middle of this, they are trying to turn whatever is done by the Tribunal back on to their friends to gain a bit of sordid good will with those on strike in Victoria. It was totally unbecoming for the honourable member for Hindmarsh to do what he did. I believe that his friends in the Opposition ranks ought to be ashamed of the type of argument that he proposed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 10 March the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
-Three statements have been made recently in relation to the Brisbane Airport and the statements are incredibly and very misleading. I want to deal with those three statements. One statement wasthis is very close to a quote-There is no reason why charter operators cannot go into Brisbane Airport'. That statement, I presume, is meant to indicate that charter operators are free to operate into and out of the Brisbane Airport. Let me make it clear. If charter operators are to operate economically with all up weight and on long hops that are necessary for aircraft such as the aircraft operated by Laker Airways, their aircraft cannot take off from the Brisbane airport. So the statement is carefully culled to indicate that there is no reason why they cannot go into Brisbane Airport; they certainly cannot go out of Brisbane Airport on economical distances with economical loads. 
I will give one example to the House. Laker Airway operates DC 10 aircraft. If those aircraft were to take off from the Brisbane Airport in a temperature of 30 degrees centigrade, a modest temperature in a semi-tropical city airport, they could not be scheduled for Singapore even if they offloaded 19,000 kilograms of freight and off-loaded at least SO passengers from the very high passenger loading. These aircraft can carry a maximum of 350-odd passengers. They still could not be scheduled for Singapore, which is the closest significant international airport by some 400 or 500 nautical miles. Of course they cannot go out of Brisbane Airport, and that is a fact of fife. The British Airways 747s are in the same category. These aircraft fall short even of Singapore, which is only 3,318 nautical miles away, by many hundreds of nautical miles. 
The second statement that was made was this: There is no reason why present facilities cannot handle the Commonwealth Games traffic'. Strictly speaking there is none if the Brisbane Airport is willing to function as a second-rate commuter airport, but of course it will not be the kind of airport that will be induced to operate like the airport at Edmonton which is able to operate at a proper international level. It is not like the airport at Perth which handled the Commonwealth Games traffic many years ago and is able to operate as a proper international airport. Nor is it like even the little airport at Christchurch which is able to operate as a much more significant international airport because today the runway is at least 2,500 feet longer than is the Brisbane runway. The second statement, which might indicate that the Brisbane Airport can accommodate Commonwealth Games traffic, is true only if that is expected to be done in a second-rate manner and not as a properly functioning international airport. 
The third statement that was made is this: There is no problem in proceedings'- from Brisbane, I presume- 'to the next fuelling point'. I find this a fascinating statement. Of course there is not problem as long as the next fuelling point is sufficiently close. As the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  would appreciate, there is no problem in proceeding from Williamtown to Sydney because that is the next fuelling point, but there certainly is a problem if an operator is going to operate planes which are designed to travel thousands of miles- significant international carriers- with all up weights. So, the statement that there is no problem in proceeding to the next fuelling point is one which I feel, taken with the other two statements, unhappily as designed to create a sense of well being which is not warranted on the facts. 
Those facts ought to be appreciated. I know they are realised. I merely point out those three statements which I judge have been carefully culled to mislead. I would be misled by them. They do not indicate that all is well. It is for those reasons, for example, that Government members in Queensland are concerned at the total inadequacy of that airport. The Opposition is concerned about that airport. That is why members of the Liberal Party in Queensland have unanimously declared that they are totally opposed to any second rate program which will not develop a properly realigned runway and which is designed only to lengthen the present runway. The airport is inadequate. My Party in my State is aware of that fact and is unanimously committed to the proper development of that airport. Those three statements made earlier today should not be allowed to mislead anyone that all is well. While the situation continues as it is, it cannot be well because the airport is totally and completely inadequate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 13 September 1977: 
1 ) Were the quarterly national income and expenditure accounts to June 1977 released on 7 September 1977. 
Was the aim of the 1976-77 Budget expressed as arriving at single digit inflation by June 1 977. 
As the implicit deflator derived from gross national expenditure showed that the rate of inflation from June 1976 to June 1977 was 9.2 per cent, has the rate of inflation been reduced. 
Is it a fact that, even when the implicit price deflator is adjusted for increases in stocks and the statistical discrepancy, the June on June inflation rate is 9.4 per cent. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
1 ) When is it expected that Australia will come into nett balance on all the movements in monetary and merchandise items with all of the ASEAN nations. 
) What are the assumptions of these projections. 
-I present the report of the Standing Committee on Expenditure entitled 'A Year's Experience '. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave-The report which has been tabled is the third report from the Standing Committee on Expenditure. Unlike the two previous reports which were on specific programs or activities, this report entitled 'A Year's Experience' describes and reviews the work of the Committee since its establishment on 29 April 1976. Whilst the report contains recommendations, they are not central to it and consequently appear only in the body of the report. They are separate from the reports on accommodation for married servicemen and overseas representation which were tabled earlier this year. Central to this report is the Committee's view on its role and functions. After more than a year's experience it is possible to distinguish three broad types of functions: 
Firstly, the examination and evaluation of the processes used in the planning, management and control of expenditure; secondly, the evaluation of programs to find out, amongst other things, whether there are alternative ways of obtaining policy objectives more efficiently or at lower cost; and thirdly, examination of programs and activities to see whether they are being administered with economy and efficiency. 
At this stage of the Committee's evolution it is difficult to say which of these functions will be more important. However, it appears that, commencing with the Budget Estimates inquiry, the Committee will be placing greater emphasis on evaluation of the processes used in the planning, management and control of expenditure. Taken together, those three functions represent a totally unique opportunity for a parliamentary committee to examine government expenditure. At the moment the full Committee is inquiring into the Budget Estimates, their formulation and use. One sub-committee is inquiring into the expenditure of the Commonwealth Department of Health and another sub-committee is investigating the defence services homes scheme, its efficiency as well as alternative methods of delivery of the loan benefit either through equivalent cash grants or second mortgages. In the report the Committee has attempted to relate its functions to those of other parliamentary committees of financial scrutiny. We have found that there is sufficient work for many parliamentary committees and that there have not been any problems in relation to the duplication of inquiries. Our close contact with the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and informal contacts with other committees should ensure a continued smooth working relationship for the future. 
In general the Committee has found the Public Service to be fairly co-operative. However, there is one matter on which we have been obliged to report to the House, particularly as it raises the question of the right of Parliament to receive information from statutory bodies. When inquiring into the activity of a particular statutory body the Committee was told that it had no jurisdiction to do so because the Act which established that body gave its management entire control over its affairs and concerns. The Committee sought the advice of  Mr Speaker  on this matter but, soon after this, it received another letter, this time signed by the permanent head himself, asking the Committee to disregard the earlier communication. Co-operation was promised and was forthcoming. It should continue to be so. Because the matter was settled to the satisfaction of the Committee the Department will not be identified. We recall the same experience of Senate Estimates Committee B in 1971 in relation to the Broadcasting Control Board and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
As mentioned before, the important principle is the right of the Parliament to receive information relating to expenditure that Parliament has authorised. Using section 29(3) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 as its guide, the Committee has recommended that Bills that establish statutory bodies or that amend the functions of existing bodies contain a clause requiring that body to furnish information on its performance to either House of the Parliament or to any parliamentary committee. The contribution that the Committee has made and can make to public scrutiny is in very large part due to members of all three political parties working towards this common goal. The excellent attendance figure at Committee meetings reflects the keenness of both Government and Opposition members. I express special thanks to the  Deputy Chairman,  the Honourable Frank Stewart, who has helped both the former  Chairman  and me. The Committee will continue to present general reports of the type just tabled as the occasion demands. We believe that this report should make a significant contribution to exarnination of the work and the worth of financial committees of the Parliament. I commend the report to the House. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
-The happenings of redistributions should never be imagined to be accidental. They are calculated and they occur in that way. The fortunes of redistributions also are not accidental. That is quite clear when one looks at the results of redistributions over a long period of time. In any redistribution half the members ought to be disadvantaged and half the members advantaged. The pluses ought to balance out the minuses. Yet an examination of what has happened in redistributions over many years shows that with a government side of 65 or 70 members, 20 of whom are Ministers, no Ministers are even in danger. Thenseats are never put at risk. They are never significantly disadvantaged in a redistribution. Were the commissioners to be totally unaware of the political consequences of their decisions, that would be an impossibility. So, I begin by making the very firm point that it is a statistical fact that distribution commissioners are aware of the political consequences of their decisions. The history of Australia since World War II verifies that fact absolutely and overwhelmingly. One's fate in redistributions is not a random number in the wheel of fortune. 
I turn now to the redistribution as it concerns Queensland. The distribution commission in Queensland consisted of three people- two Commonwealth public servants and one State public servant, who is a statutory officer, the State Surveyor-General. It is a widely known fact in that State that the non-Commonwealth officer has been desperately unhappy about what occurred in the redistribution. That has been made known to people. It is known to honourable members in this place- honourable members who are not scheduled to speak-and it is not known indirectly. It is quite clear that one of the commissioners felt that the minds of the other commissioners were not open in respect of the redistribution and he desperately considered making a minority report. That information has been conveyed directly and indirectly to a number of people, and some honourable members in Parliament House who are not scheduled to speak are aware of it. So, the circumstances of a redistribution immediately become obvious and the nature of the commissioners becomes obvious. 
I have referred elsewhere to the manner in which recommendations are made for people to become distribution commissioners. In Queensland two such appointments were made within relatively recent times. One person appointed was the Commonwealth Electoral Officer, who was new in that State, and the other was a Commonwealth public servant in Queensland. Both were appointed to their positions very recently.  Mr Coleman,  the Commonwealth Electoral Officer, who must take the blame for what has happened in Queensland, has to bear the brunt of any criticism. I believe that that is quite reasonable and ought to be so. Those two people represented a majority of those who would make the decision. 
I was always desperately unhappy about a previous redistribution through which I lived, and for the first time I make a criticism of it. The last redistribution went through this House in 1968, and one of the people in my State who was concerned with it was a senior Minister, a PostmasterGeneral. One of the commissioners appointed was the Director-General of Posts and Telegraph in that State. I always maintainedthis is the first time in 10 years that I have stated it- that there had to be a very severe clash of interests in that redistribution. It is for that reason that I have said that the composition of many of the distribution commissions in 1975, in which Commonwealth public servants did not constitute a majority, was correct. The 1975 redistribution could not be impugned because of the honesty of the commissioners. I said that in the House at the time, and I admit that it was only out of party loyalty that I voted against that redistribution. But the principle remains and it ought to be adhered to. That redistribution was impeccable in its procedures. 
I turn now to the events of this redistribution, both as it concerns myself and as it concerns a wider sphere. I deal with my own case first, in terms of the principles involved. An extraordinary selectivity of principle was involved in this redistribution in respect of the seat of Lilley. An area had to be added to the seat, and the only area added was one which had the greatest separation from the seat. The key principle was the attitude of the commissioners to what are known as freeways. The area added to my seat is separated from it by both a railway line and a proposed freeway. No other area was so separated from the seat by clear, continuous and complete boundaries. Yet that was the only area added to the seat. It also happened to be an area which was rather disadvantageous to my own position. That was not unknown to the commissioners, as I indicated from the evidence which can be adduced since 1945. No suggestions were made for a change. A change was not contemplated. It was the only area on the border which would have been somewhat disadvantageous to my position. I am puzzled when I realise that the commissioners went out of their way to make freeways the boundaries between electorates on the other side of Brisbane. Where possible they made freeways the boundaries between the Griffith and Moreton electorates and between the Bowman and Moreton electorates. In no other way did the boundaries exist 
The New South Wales commissioners went out of their way to make freeways the legitimate boundaries of electorates where they could. Freeways separate the electorate of Prospect and the proposed new seat of Macquarie and the electorates of Robertson and Hunter. In Victoria, the commissioners also used freeways on the north and south of the Yarra River as boundaries wherever it was possible. I am puzzled that the commissioners when drawing up boundaries for one side of the Brisbane River should think differently from what they did on the south side of the river and differently from the commissioners in New South Wales and from the commissioners in Victoria. I am overwhelmingly convinced that they were aware of the consequences of what they were doing. Not for one moment do I retreat from that position. Given the composition of the tribunal, the commissioners obviously felt that they could adopt that course. 
I come to the final changes that were made to the redistribution proposals in Queensland. I find some of these the most fascinating of the lot. Two changes were made between the first publication of the maps and the second publication of the maps. One change was made in north Queensland between the electorates of Dawson and Kennedy. It was also a proposed change. It was put forward by way of an objection. The honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  would immediately agree with that. In south-east Queensland, the commissioners made a change. They changed the electorate of the Gold Coast to the electorate of McPherson and changed the electorate of McPherson to the electorate of Fadden. I am fascinated as to what caused them to make those changes. I say to the House: I am totally convinced they acted on evidence other than that presented to them in public documents. 
In Queensland the names of electorates are important. If an electorate changes its name and a person contests that electorate, the seat is open for challenge by another party because of the three-cornered contest atmosphere that operates in Queensland. We know that. It does not matter whether one agrees with what has occurred. 
Were the name of an electorate changed from, say, McPherson to the Gold Coast, the Gold Coast electorate becomes open for challenge by another party. Miraculously the electorate names were changed by the commissioners, but nowhere, as I look through the volurninous document entitled 'Redistribution of Queensland into Electoral Divisions' can I see that such a change was proposed. The commissioners, like St Paul on the road to Damascus, obviously had a vision and felt that they could make that change. They felt that they could make that change with impunity. They felt that they could make that change with confidence. The political consequences of that change ought to be known to the House. The political consequences of a name change are greater in Queensland than in any other part of Australia. Names of electorates were changed in Queensland. They were not changed elsewhere in Australia. The changmg of names of electorates in normally left to this House. The Fox report of 1969 made it quite clear that the authority to name electorates lay with this House, and yet out of the blue, without any suggestions under section 2 1 of the Electoral Act for such a proposal, the commissioners changed the names of electorates. I shall read section 2 1 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act because that is the section which governs the final changes between the first publication of the maps, the 30 day period for objections and the final publication of the maps. It states: 
Suggestions or objections in writing may be lodged with the Distribution Commissioners not later than 30 days after the advertisement referred to in the last preceding section, and the Commissioners shall consider all suggestions and objections so lodged before making their report. 
It is quite clear that the commissioners considered some other objections which were not lodged before they made their report. I believe an explanation is required from the commissioners. I am not happy with the position. No reasonable person could possibly be happy with the position. I believe tracks have not been covered very well. It was an error not to propose a change. What the commissioners did was an error. It is widely known in the House that over recent years commissioners have not been particularly interested in naming electorates. They have shied away from taking upon themselves the precise naming of electorates. They have tended to give electorates merely geographical names and leave it for the Parliament to decide. That is what has happened in this case. The decision in the instance to which I refer came from nowhere. I am puzzled by it. I am also disturbed by it. The House can well understand why I find myself unable to vote for the proposed redistribution. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1 977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Laker Airways, in order to offer cheap air fares, must operate their aeroplanes to full loading capacity in respect of fuel, freight and passengers. 
If so, does this requirement oblige an economically operating airline to fly a minimum number of airline stops. 
Is it a fact that to enable the Laker DC 10 aircraft to operate economic long distance stopovers from Brisbane Airport, at least 100 passengers would have to be offloaded. 
If so, would this disability occur particularly because Brisbane Airport runway is the shortest capital city runway in Australia. 
Would the Government be satisfied if the main runway at Tullamarine Airport was only 7760 feet in legnth. 
Will he inquire whether Qantas and the other international carriers to Australia would be content to have the main runway at Tullamarine Airport 7760 feet in length. 
Which genuine international airports to his knowledge have main runways of less than 8000 feet. 
Is it a fact that greater runway length is required to achieve adequate aircraft performance in tropical and subtropical airports. 
If so, why is Brisbane Airport expected to function in a sub-tropical climate with a runaway shorter than Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Darwin or Alice Springs Airports. 
10) Would it be fatally incorrect to claim that no disability exists because of the length of the runway at Brisbane Airport. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) With regard to Brisbane Airport, will he provide me with a record of aircraft movements, arrival times, departure times, and type of aircraft, using the main runway on a typically (a) busy and (b) quiet day. 
What is the minimum allowable time between successive landings for various types of aircraft on domestic and international services. 
What is the minimum allowable time between successive departures for various types of aircraft on domestic and international services, showing the restrictions on the operation of following aircraft after the take-off of wide-bodied jets. 
Are these time intervals considered sufficiently safe by the pilots of each type of aircraft using the airport. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns recent reports in relation to Australia's nuclear safeguards policy. Have any bilateral negotiations concerning safeguards been held with Japan? Has Japan refused to accept this country's safeguards policy? Is it correct, therefore, that new sales contracts with Japan cannot be completed due to the non-acceptance of our policy? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 September 1 977: 
What were the total aircraft movements, including general aviation, international carriers, helicopter, military and mainline carriers, at Brisbane Airport in (a) 1969 and (b) 1976. 
What were the total aircraft movements at Brisbane Airport in (a) July 1976 and (b) July 1977. 
-Clause 3 of the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill (No. 2) omits from section 25 of the Act subsection (4), which relates to the seven-year provision. I am concerned about this proposal for a simple reason. At present three provisions govern the redistribution of electorates. The first one is the simple constitutional provision imposed by the taking of the census to alter the number of divisions in a State. That is mandatory. The second is that the Governor-General, on appropriate advice, can determine a redistribution at such times as he thinks fit. The third provision was one which the Government placed into the Commonwealth Electoral Act towards the end of last year and which came into operation this year. It indicated that redistributions because a quarter of the seats in a State were out of focus, that is more than 10 per cent up or down on the proposed quota, would not occur more often than seven years apart. I always thought that that was a reasonable provision because it gave an assurance to the electorate that redistributions would not be held at random, in an erratic way or unnecessarily. I reinforce that thinking by referring to the speech of the then Attorney-General, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  in introducing the Bill. I shall not read all of the comments of the Attorney-General at that time as recorded at page 485 of the  Hansard  of 24 February this year, but he gave two reasons for the provision being introduced. They were reasons related to having a stability with respect to electorates. He said:  ... the amendment is aimed to give stability and to make sure that people grow accustomed to their member and get to know him . . . 
Further on he stated: 
It is a method of ensuring adequate, proper and reasonable electoral representation. 
The amendment, as proposed then, gave the electorate an assurance with respect to redistributions. As such it was quite important. In a rapidly growing country with a rapidly increasing population it was quite possible and quite clear that electorates would get out of focus very rapidly. During the 1950s and the 1960s, they did get out of focus extremely rapidly. You,  Mr Speaker,  will well remember an old electorate which you represented by the same name as the electorate you represent today. Your old electorate grew out of focus extremely rapidly after the middle 1950s. This amendment therefore gave an assurance that random, erratic, quick redistributions would not be the order of the day, that people could have stability and could get to know their member. 
There was also an unstated assumption in respect of that provision. It also assumed an honesty on the part of the distribution commissioners. It assumed that the distribution commissioners, in those circumstances, would bear in mind that unwarranted changes introduced too often would upset an electorate, and those who represented electors had that assurance also. Now trust above all- and this is the unstated assumption of the assurance- was required of the distribution commissioners. I am concerned because this small guarantee is to be removed from the Bill. I am not going to press it to a vote. I do not intend to vote against this section. It can be assumed now that a redistribution can occur at any time and for any reason. The assurance, while not having a great deal of power, did have a significant psychological effect. 
I am not happy that it should be removedcertainly not for the reasons that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has enunciated. I have serious doubts as to the honesty of one of the redistributions that has occurred in Australia. As I have indicated before, I am of a mind that the redistribution in Queensland was a dishonest redistribution. I am certainly of a mind that section 2 1 of the Act was not adhered to in that redistribution. To put it bluntly, I believe that some cheating went on. I am convinced that the Chief Distribution Commissioner in that State,  Mr Coleman,  should be thoroughly ashamed of what went on in that redistribution. My reason for so believing is quite simple: Something occurred between the first publication of maps and the second publication of maps which was not even suggested in any objection or submission or proposition put to the commissioners. They got a message from on high, perhaps by way of a telephone call. But they made a significant change in names such as has not occurred before in redistributions that have been conducted under the present system. It has not occurred under any State or any proposed Federal redistribution. I am referring now to the redistribution of 1968, the proposed redistribution of 1975 and of course the redistributions of 1977. So if such a redistribution occurs and if such cheating occurs, there has to be a loss of assurance, with the loss of the proposition that redistributions, because of electorates being above or below the quota, can occur within seven years. In other words, the sevenyear itch, which was some deterrent to unnecessary redistributions, has been removed as part of the proposal to repeal sub-section (4) of section 25. 
They are my comments with respect to the Bill. The section was not an overriding one. It did not override the other requirements for powers of redistribution. But because of the Queensland redistribution- I maintain that the Queensland redistribution was not according to the requirements of the Act; I claim it was not an honest redistribution- I am concerned that this small proposal, this small guarantee, which the then Attorney-General thought was necessary earlier in 1977 is proposed to be removed not just for Western Australia but forever in terms of late 1977. Members of parliament are naturally concerned in relation to these matters. Nothing is so close to the interests of a member of parliament and nothing so twigs his nerve ends as a proposed redistribution. When one suspects dishonesty, one has to be very concerned. 
They are my simple comments on the proposed deletion of sub-section (4) of section 25. At a convenient time I should like to see this sub-section again included in the legislation, merely to re-inforce what I think ought to be a presumed honesty on the part of distribution commissioners. 

<graphic href="107131197711031_75_6_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_75_6_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_75_6_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-A little piece of history is always useful when looking at the development of airports. There has been a growing concern over the Brisbane Airport. It has manifested itself in this place and it is certainly manifesting itself in my own State. Brisbane Airport is the most neglected in Australia and it is the worst airport in any mainland capital city. The anger and the concern that have developed are well exemplified by a newspaper article in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  dated Saturday, 4 November 1967. The article contains a list of promises in relation to the Brisbane Airport. These promises have now extended well over 10 years. This is merely a record of the last decade. If one were to reach back into the early 1960s, one could peruse the promises made then. I shall read certain excerpts from this article and from the statement of the then Minister for Civil Aviation to indicate just what has not occurred. 
The then Minister for Civil Aviation indicated at that time that Brisbane was expected to become Australia's No. 2 international airport under Federal plans to develop it. The Sydney 
Airport was to be brought up to an equal standard. The article said, and this is the important point: 
The Civil Aviation Minister,  Mr Swartz,  in Brisbane yesterday confirmed that the Civil Aviation Department had accepted 12,500 feet as the necessary runway length for nonrestricted operations of the Boeing 747. He indicated that Sydney Airport had two runways of 7,900 feet and 5,500 feet in length and that Tullamarine, Melbourne's new $45m airport - 
That is in 1967 dollars- due to become fully operational in 1969 will carry only limited jumbo jet traffic and will not be extended to become a major port for them. Tullamarine's main runway will be 8,500 feet. Jumbos using it will do so with restricted loads because of the runway conditions. 
The article then described the Darwin Airport and the Perth Airport. The plain fact is that there has been development and extension at every one of those airports within the past decade. There has been none at Brisbane, and Brisbane is the third airport in Australia. It is also the third international airport in Australia. That is why the  Courier-Mail,  in a magnificent editorial last Friday, made it perfectly clear that it expected something to be done in relation to Brisbane airport. I have not seen such a forthright editorial in that newspaper for a long time. There is a growing and real concern. Let me make it quite clear that the runway at Brisbane airport, in terms of both domestic and international traffic, is the most inadequate runway at any capital city airport in Australia. I say that it is not right that that should be so and I say that it is not a fair go. So the members from Queensland are concerned. 
The second reason why they are concerned is simply this: If an airport is stunted the development of a region will be stunted. In some ways airports have become the modern equivalent of seaports. In the past, nations, regions, and states, were built up around their ability to have ocean and sea traffic. That still obtains but airports are a modern counterpart to that position. If an airport is stunted demand and activity through that region will be reduced. That is what is happening with respect to Queensland and that is certainly what is happening quite precisely with respect to Brisbane and south east Queensland today. The plain fact is that the growth of traffic at Brisbane airport has been in excess of the original estimate of the needs of the airport. I am referring to the totality of the traffic, the larger volumes of traffic mentioned by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I am referring to international traffic, commuter traffic, general aviation traffic and domestic mainline traffic. I am taking them all together. Commuters and other services have as much right to use capital city airports as to other lines. They fulfil a very necesary purpose. 
From 1969 to 1976, which included three years of recession, the growth of traffic movement at Brisbane airport was over 6 per cent per year. The growth this year is well in excess of the 6 per cent per year for 1976, and is well in excess of 7 per cent per year. So that airport will reach its full capacity and queuing will have to occur many years earlier than was envisaged in the Brisbane Airport Transport Survey made some years ago. The data on which the survey was based is seriously out of line and seriously out of focus. Therefore we have to look at the proposals in respect of Brisbane airport. Again I look at the long history of promises that have been made in relation to Brisbane airport, so well exemplified by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  Recently, one of the members of the board of Qantas Airways Ltd,  Sir John  Egerton, who also happens to be an inhabitant of my electorate, pointed out that there were some plans for the immediate development of Brisbane airport which would cost over $200m. These plans which were made public, were for some runway realignment, terminal development, et cetera. As  Sir John  Egerton indicated, that is a very large expenditure to contemplate. I suggest that that expenditure is totally unrealistic. 
As I have pointed out and as Queensland member have made clear, we do not want the development of that airport to be a miniature Snowy Mountains scheme. We do not want anything like that. The realistic program for expenditure for what is required between now and well into the 1990s, towards the end of this century, is one-third of the amount which is being talked about. Some of the programs in respect of runways, I suspect- I cannot obtain all the details of them- are unrealistically elaborate and luxurious. They are unrealistic as to what is required for Brisbane airport. I suspect, and I say this quite frankly, that some of these costs have been so loaded as to make the program unfeasible, to make it quite unrealistic. I suggest that an expenditure of $60m to $70 would satisfy what has been promised in relation to Brisbane airport till the end of this century. What are required are two features in terms of public expenditure: A realigned runway, and sufficient fill for the replacement of terminals. Most of the other expenditures that are required- other expenditures are required- lie within the private enterprise field. We do not want a Taj Mahal. We say that a Taj Mahal is being suggested and worked on in order to make it unrealistic and unattainable. It has the effect of making the financial barrier so high that it cannot possibly be hurdled. We are suggesting modest proposals that are realistic and capable of being fulfilled. 
I want to say this: The people in Queensland are becoming increasingly concerned about the airport. Pieces of quite serious misinformation have been conveyed. For example, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who is a very talented Minister, has indicated to the Australian National Travel Association in Queensland that in respect of Brisbane airport there are no real restrictions imposed on international movements at that airport by either the runway or the recently completed international terminal facilities. That is an incorrect statement and the Department of Transport, which is responsible for the operation of the airport in Brisbane, knows that it is incorrect. It knows that international carriers fully loaded- we are talking about economic operations fully loaded- are unable, under the temperatures and the conditions operating, to reach the nearest Asian port. From there planes are required to drop down at Darwin. British Airways planes travel from Brisbane to Sydney and then to Singapore. They have the pleasure of watching planes from Tullamarine airport flying overhead not only on their way to Singapore but also on their way to Hong Kong, Manila and so on. That position is not sufficiently good. It is not a fair position and it is not one that would intend or would be able to defend. 
These things have to be pointed out. There are realistic programs which can be put into operation. We ask only that the people who are responsible for the engineering in this area and the consultants responsible for drainage and engineering requirements in Brisbane and in other Queensland areas be consulted, but that the airport not be designed at an unrealistically luxurious level such as we find in Melbourne or some other southern capital. Brisbane airport must have something done to it. Above all we say that any proposal to extend the runway is unacceptable. It is unacceptable for a whole host of reasons. It has also been declared to be unacceptable by the State Government and by the Lord Mayor of Brisbane. That proposal has also been declared to be unacceptable by the Liberal Party of Queensland and by the Federal Council of the Liberal Party, by a unanimous vote in both instances. What is required at Brisbane airport is a realigned runway and fill for the establishment of terminals and those other facilities in an appropriate direction. Basically that is all that is required until the turn of this century. Unless that is done, queuing will begin to occur at that airport much earlier in the 1980s than was originally foreseen. Most tragically, unless something is done to develop an adequate airport, promises made in 1967 will be shown to have been promises of straw. But above all, an inadequate airport indicates that a region can be kept back in an unrealistic manner. 
Let me make one further comment. The economic conditions under which a development occurs are also important. There can be attitudes towards capital development programs that will occur as a particular stage of an economic cycle. It has been part of the Government's program to have capital works programs restricted more than they would be otherwise . If we accept that fact, it is nonsense to suggest that over the long period that is required for the development of an airport, similar restrictions on capital works programs are going to persist. Is anybody in this House going to suggest that similar restrictions over capital works programs will occur over the next five, six, seven or eight years? The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has indicated that 1978 will be a year of far more substantial economic growth than we have experienced in the immediate past. We welcome that statement. If 1979, 1980 and the early 1980s are going to be years of substantial economic growth, that is the period of time over which a modest capital works program in relation to an airport can be organised and sustained. So the economic circumstances will enable something to be done. In fact, the economic circumstances could encourage that a capital works program be initiated during the next Parliament with respect to Brisbane airport. I suggest that the  Courier-Mail  editorial has given a magnificent lead to the people of Australia and the people of Queensland. I believe that that lead will be taken. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
When has a particular conception of human rights represented the sole determinant of Australian foreign policy since World War II. 
Does it explain the official Government attitude towards China, Russia, Vietnam or Cambodia; if so, when was this made clear. 
Did it ever explain the Australian attitude towards Indonesia on a Government to Government basis. 
Did  Dr Evatt  rely on these principles to explain Australian-Indonesian relationships in 1947; if so, has it applied in subsequent Australian-Indonesian relationships. 
Can the Government indicate that this narrowly based conception of Australia's overseas relations will not be allowed to poison the necessarily dose and friendly relations with the Association of South East Asian Nations considered individually and collectively. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on IS September 1977: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1239, when have there been evident different policies and practices enunciated by the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Communist Party of China. 
Can he say whether these essential differences have been evident in the  Peking People's Daily  or in any of the Chinese media; if so, when. 
Are there any examples where the incitement of revolution by Peking Radio, the  Voice of Thailand  or the  Voice of the Malaysian Revolution  has been discussed by the Chinese Government. 
Is it a fact that the most notable example from recent history of an attempt to allow any divergence of these views occurred in the Dubcek Government of Czechoslovakia. 
i  Is it realistic to accept that the doctrine that Chinese 'relations with foreign Communist parties would not be allowed to impinge on government to government relationships' absolves the Government of responsibility 
I wish to convey my personal congratulations to  Sir Billy  Snedden on the understandable and meritorious majority with which he has been elected to the position he now occupies. It would be unworthy of any member of this House to forget to acknowledge the very great work that was done for many years by the previous  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  He has won the very great respect of all honourable members. We wish him well. I also wish well the new  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar).  I know that he will perform his task with a very great sense of fairness and justice. The House will certainly benefit from his judgments. 
The Government has been elected with quite an overwhelming majority. There may therefore be those who would regard the past as being the oyster of those on the Treasury benches in this Parliament. Those who would regard it as such should never forget that they can live off that past for only a very short period of time. In subsequent elections we will be judged on what occurs during the next three years. I hope the Government will approach those three years with that principle pre-eminently in mind because throughout the world democratic party systems are going through a time of very great crisis. 
I wish to mention a speech which was delivered recently by the former British Chancellor of the Exchequer, Roy Jenkins. He had several points to make. I shall refer only to two of them tonight because they are important. In the first place, he reflected that the number of electors who are opting to vote for the major parties in all the countries of the democratic West is decreasing. He said that an increasing proportion of the electorate was making the decision that it would vote for some new organisation, for some extra political organisation or for a party with a very short history. That ought to cause political parties to look to their merits in making their own decisions as to where the votes lie. To rely upon a rigid class vote as has been the case in the past will not suffice. It will cause a decreased vote for parties. With great respect, and without meaning to hurt in any sense, I say that the Australian Labor Party ought to look very closely indeed at that advice given by Roy Jenkins. 
But it also means this: When members are elected to this place they are elected not as back benchers- a dreadful term- but as private members of Parliament. They should function as private members of Parliament. They should not assume a pre-eminence because they are members of some committee or because they were members of some tribunal. They are private members of Parliament with the rights that a private member of Parliament should have and with the rights of the Parliament that the private members of Parliament should, in turn, acknowledge. The electorate will make that kind of judgment. It is a remarkable feature of the last general election- indeed the results were overwhelming- that the private members of Parliament who spoke out sensibly and who worked sensibly achieved some quite incredible results. I can point to some incredible results and well merited results on both sides of this chamber. So performance wins. The electorate is making the judgment that performance wins. The electorate is not wedded inextricably, inflexibly and rigidly to party slogans or labels. Roy Jenkins, in his lecture, made the point that political parties have to look to their merits in order to gain support. 
The second point among a number of others which he made is important, that is, for the good of the democratic system there has to be instituted a continuity of policy quite beyond governments and quite beyond parties- a continuity of policy that an electorate will support, no matter which parties are elected to government or which private members are elected to government. I hope that that would be the rule in the future. It has certainly been a growing one in the past. Let us look then at the Australian situation. 
-We will come to the airport in a moment. The greatest and the most significant continuity of policy in terms of parties in Australia has been the simple one- those three simple Australian words upon which any policy will be judged- a fair go. The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  in talking about beef producers, tried to analyse what would go to some affluent producers and non-affluent beef producers in terms of what would be a fair go. Earlier today, when the Opposition said it was concerned at the present level of unemployment, it was saying that it wanted a fair go for those people whom it said were unemployed and whom it said had few employment opportunities. 
There is one sense of fair go on which the Australian electorate is becoming increasingly vocal, and any party that forgets this will fail. It is the matter of taxation. As never before, levels of taxation are discussed everywhere in the community. Once upon a time levels and rates of taxation were discussed and pressed only by an affluent few. But today they are discussed by every person who works in the community. I would say that overwhelmingly in the last election the electorate made a judgment about a fango in respect of taxation. Therefore, if I can be so bold, I want to look at some of the practices and proposals that were put forward in the last election. 
I invite the House to consider whether one of the great parties in this place has surrendered what should be a fair go. I want to look at the proposal that was put forward, because it should never be forgotten, that in order to relieve unemployment payroll tax should be abolished. It was an unbelievable and incredible proposition because those who proposed it were going to take money from the pockets of relatively modest wage and salary earners in Australia and pass hundreds of millions of dollars into the largest board rooms in this country. Without being ascerbic, without being venomous, it should be remembered that every member of the Opposition supported the proposition that massive amounts of resources should be effectively taken from the pockets of wage and salary earners in Australia and passed into the largest board rooms in this country. It was because Australians at all levels, rich as well as poor, said that that was not a fair go that they decided as they did. After all, any proposition that is put forward concerning economic growth in Australia will be judged on one overwhelming aspect- namely, is it fair; does it distribute fairly; does everybody get a fair go. The laissez-faire system of the 19th century which some would laud was rejected because it did not give a fair go. 'One for all and all for one', said the elephant as he danced among the chickens. One does not have to be a fan of Charles Dickens to understand that and one does not have to read  Hard Times  to realise that democratic electorates, whether in Great Britain or in Australia, will reject any party that does not seek to say: ' We will give you a fair go '. 1 want to read into  Hansard  some of the transfers of resources that were proposed in the last election. Taxation will be the principal economic electoral issue in Australia for more than a decade ahead. These facts should be known. I was puzzled beyond belief why the Labor Party should for example, seek to give- that is what it was- to the board room of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd over $33m. I was puzzled why in my own State the proposition was put forward that the Utah Mining and Development Company- it has been scarified and lacerated in this House; it is a useful whipping horse throughout the nation- should have transferred to its board room $2. 5m in addition to its $ 150-odd million profit. I was puzzled why $9m or more should be given to the Myer corporation. I was puzzled why Woolworths Ltd should receive $8. 9m or $9m. Ordinary Australians who realise that there needs to be a decent sense of profitability and who would support a government that says 'you have to have decent levels of profitability to have decent levels of investment in a country ' said that those transfers were not a fair go. So any party in Australia that departs from giving a fair go, from making a fair distribution of resources in Australia, whether it be under doctrines of socialism or whether it be under doctrines of social justice, will be rejected and it certainly deserves and ought to be rejected. To he who hath shall be given is never acceptable and in the last election it was made crystal clear it was not acceptable in the last months of 1 977. 
The most incredible proposition that was made, and one which I could not understand, was that $10m to $1 lm of this money was to be effectively transferred through the medium of coal exports from Australia to the great overseas coal buyers. Because of the way the contracts are written, a reduction in cost in terms of tax in Australia has to be reflected in the price at which the Japanese or the Europeans buy the coal from Australia's great coal exporters. There was some difference between the New South Wales and Queensland contracts. We can argue a little bit about a few million dollars but again the transfer involved was not to the largest board rooms in Australia; it was direct to the board rooms of overseas coal buyers. So a Labor Party, whether it is based upon a sense of socialism or social justice, has to live with its past. I believe it ought to explain to this House how that past would seek to live with it because they cannot go together. In fact the Australian electorate made it clear that they will not go together, and they ought not go together. Australians are not philanthropists but they have a sense of what is appropriate and of what is just. So today, when over and over again in the propositions made by the Opposition that philosophical principle underlies and supports so much of what the Opposition complains about, we should look at what the Opposition says today, in February 1978, and what its supporters proposed in November and December 1977. As a matter of justice to the Australian electorate, that past should not be allowed to be forgotten. I know that honourable members on this side of the House will seek to ensure that it is not forgotten. 
One thing further needs to be added to this matter. By that precise action, and even given some of the loan and deficit policies of the Opposition, the Opposition would cause unemployment to be between 30,000 and 50,000 greater this year than it otherwise would be. Payroll tax has little multiplier effect in the economy. Even the Institute of Applied Economic Research in Melbourne in some of its saner moments has to admit that payroll tax in terms of its re-spending co-efficient has a far smaller effect in terms of demand at the shop floor level, the factory floor or shopfront than has money in the pockets of Australians. Those facts cannot be denied and they ought not to be denied. 
There is one other point I would mention. Having looked at the matter of taxation and a fair go a brief excursion through some of history is also appropriate to be borne in mind and I want to do this for only a few moments because there are very few moments left to me in this debate. I ask honourable members to look at the rates of taxation. This is going to be a dominant issue and it cannot be avoided. During the period of the previous Labor Government the average rate of taxation on average weekly earnings increased to the greatest level in Australia's history. It increased to the greatest level that has ever been sustained since uniform taxation came in. It increased to a greater level than John Curtin had to impose during the depth or the height- however one likes to express it- of World War II. An analysis of the data at that time- admittedly a broad analysis in terms of rates of taxation on average weekly earnings, forgetting certain social factors such as family size and so on- illustrates this point. In 1944-45 the rate of taxation on the average equivalent dollar was between 1 9 '/4c and 20c in the dollar. During the Chifley and Menzies Governments the rate of tax oscillated between 8c, 16c and 1 7c in the dollar. For a certain period in the mid-1950s it was down to about 6c in the dollar. During the McMahon Government it climbed to 1 7ic to 1 8c in the dollar. In the term of the previous Government- the Whitlam Governmentand while the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was Treasurer, the rate of taxation in the average dollar on that broad analysis, and it is a justified analysis, rose to just on 23c in the dollar which was greater than the tax Curtin had to impose. 
It is no wonder that this Government said it would bring in tax indexation. It is no wonder that the Opposition hedged its bets with respect to tax indexation. It is no wonder that it had a client report written arguing against tax indexation. The average levels of income tax in Australia now are on the decrease. They are now below 22c in the dollar and we hope that they will decrease further. But I repeat one sentence which needs to be remembered. During the last 18 months of the previous Labor Government, the rates of tax imposed on average weekly earnings exceeded those imposed ever before in Australian history. They exceeded those which had to be sustained during the depths of World War II. Taxation will continue as a measure of government. 
What does all this mean? One of the great problems that Australia has to face and upon which the electorate has to be convinced is this: Can a socialist party reduce taxes to the level which is tolerable for Australians? Ought it to reduce that level of taxation to a level which is tolerable for Australians? Will it be allowed by its supporters, with an appropriate program, in fact to reduce the level of tax to what is tolerable for Australians? Does its philosophy, its ethos and its background allow it to engage in such a program? In order to convince the Australian electorate that it can, much more work needs to be done in this place than merely crying and whingeing about a few issues. These will be the continuing issues. They will be the issues that will not go away. The levels of taxation and credibility about levels of taxation in Australia, as well as credibility about the redistribution of money raised from taxation, should be at the central issue of government. We know that the possession by government of the power over the economic and the financial resources of a community ultimately reflects the extent to which governments will allow their people to be independent and the households of the nation to make their own decisions. It will also happen, in Roy Jenkins ' words, to determine whether or not governments will be elected. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This is a new Committee which was instituted in the last Parliament. In a sense, it is a committee which is the idea of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The idea of this committee had long germinated in the mind of the Prime Minister. The Committee was pleased to be able to function in the last Parliament in the way in which it did. 
However, there was one complaint. The Committee had some difficulty as regards the number of members it surrendered from time to time to the front bench. I instance the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife),  the Minister for Special Trade Representations, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  and the Minister for Productivity, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  They would be too modest to say so themselves, but I am certain that they have raised considerably the standards of the front bench. But at least, as far as I can see, one of them at the moment has the good grace to blush. 
The Committee has been enormously successful in carrying out quite a number of inquiries. I merely wish to refer to one alteration in the resolution of appointment of this Committee which will improve its work, compared with that in the last Parliament. I refer to paragraph (7) in which a quorum  of the  Committee is to consist of three members or more rather than five members or more. This will facilitate the work of the subcommittees of the Committee on Expenditure and will enable more inquiries to be carried out than in the past. 
The peculiar power of this Committee lies in its terms of reference. I refer to paragraph ( 1 ) (b) which states that the Committee can:  consider how, if at all, policies implied in the figures of expenditure and in the estimates may be carried out more economically; 
In other words, the Committee can enter into areas involving the method of delivery of the Government's policies. That gives it a very wide charter and a very wide area of responsibility. At the moment there is an amount of unfinished business to which the Committee has to attend. We hope to continue inquiries into matters such as defence service homes and into the Department of Health which were instituted towards the last months of last year. The Committee has functioned very well. It has only been able to function well because of the goodwill that has applied with respect to the members of the three parties. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who are in the House at the moment, served on the Committee for a great deal of time. I look forward to the Committee's success and I am sure that the House will be continually grateful that in 1 976 it set up this Committee for the first time. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the statement made in Peking last Tuesday by  Mr Liao  Cheng-ching, a member of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, to the effect that the United States should sever any diplomatic or military links with Taiwan. Is the nature of the links of the Australian Government with Taiwan completely acceptable to China, that is, to Peking? Further, has the Government considered pursuing a less rigid and exclusive approach to Taiwan than it is claimed is presently required due to the nature of our diplomatic accord with China? 
I have no particular brief with respect to the textile industry or with respect to this Bill, the Bounty (Polyester-Cotton Yarn) Bill, so I am in the same position as the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  in that regard. However, involved in the Bill is a number of very important principles which ought to be canvassed because they are very appropriate to the consideration of events in Australia today. As I look through report No. 138 of the Industries Assistance Commission on which the Government's decision quite obviously has been made, several things become crystal clear. The bounty in respect of which the decision has been made will apply to seven producers. I will read out the names of those producers. I think that there has been a takeover in respect of one of these, so I will read them out as listed in the IAC report. The companies are Bradmill Industries Ltd, Bond's Spinning Mills, Actil Marketing Ltd- I think Actil has been absorbed by one of the previously mentioned companies- -Supertex Industries Ltd, Gold Coast Textiles Pty Ltd, Rocklea Spinning Mills Pty Ltd and Yarragon Textile Mills Pty Ltd. One of those firms was in particular trouble. Quite clearly, part of the problem was due to a lack of demand in Australia and to imports providing competition with which those firms were not able to keep pace. 
One or two other points in this IAC report are quite important. Before I deal with those points in detail, I shall deal with the general principles which are contained in IAC reports, especially those on the textile and clothing industries, of which this industry is part, and to which the present  Chairman  of the IAC,  Mr McKinnon,  has referred. I merely remind the House that in the middle of last year he made it quite clear that the quantitative reallocation of resources in Australia which occurs on account of industry protection of one kind or another was more than $4,000m some years ago and is certainly more than $5,000m today. 
Some questions need to be asked not only with respect to this Bill but with respect to all matters of industry assistance. Those questions are: Who enables the subsidy to be paid? Who benefits and who pays? I shall return to those questions over and over again in considering the matter of industry protection in Australia. The principle which I hold is simply this: The subsidiser. should not have household living standards lower than those who receive the subsidy. To put it in terms which are most appropriate to the Australian Federation, those States which effectively are the subsidisers should not have a living standard lower than those States which are the net recipients of subsidies through industry protection of one kind or another. I believe that that is a very valid social principle. It also happens to be a very valid economic principle; it is often called the principle of equal marginal social product. It is appropriate in this case. 
Having stated that principle, I am intrigued by the fact that in this Bill a bounty has been chosen. T applaud the fact that a bounty was recommended and chosen to be supported by the Government. Previously bounties have applied more to rural products than to products of secondary industry. One famous case is that of tractors. Over more recent years bounties have been provided for machine tools and other products. I can only support the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who quite correctly and validly indicated the benefits of choosing a bounty rather than tariffs or tariff quotas. A bounty is certainly of far greater benefit to the ultimate consumer. It is a better index for industry, showing where the principal benefits ultimately lie. Of course, Bradmill and others wanted tariffs or tariff quotas rather than a bounty. Not the least reason for that preference is that there is some vertical integration in the industry. 
When tariffs are applied in an industry in which there is vertical integration, the benefits flow throughout the whole process. It is on that basis that there has been considerable trouble over recent years in separating what are nominal tariffs from what are effective tariffs. For that reason those entrepreneurs and industrialists wanted the other form of assistance, but the consumers of Australia  would not  want it. That certainly needs to be recorded. On page 22 of the IAC report a superb justification for the Commission arriving at its decision is given. It states: 
Assistance in this form - 
That is, a bountywould meet the present needs of the industry more quickly and would limit the level of assistance to the volume of production it could reasonably be expected to achieve. It would also avoid the high costs to users and consumers associated with the use of tariff quotas or an additional duty on imported yarns. 
So I believe that the IAC reached its decision on correct economic and social grounds. 
Who benefits? Ultimately the 2,300 to 2,500 employees, managers and entrepreneurs in the industry benefit. The work force in this industry has declined. As indicated on page 8 of the IAC report, it has declined from 2,700 in December 1975 to 2,300 or 2,400 in April 1977. What is the benefit to each employee in the polyester-cotton yarn industry, which is part of the textile industry? The bounty provides $260 to $270 per employee per year in order to keep people in employment. That is not a large subsidy; but it is a subsidy. The cost to the subsidiser and the benefits to the recipient of the subsidy should be repeated over and over again. 
Profitability in this industry is not high. On page 9 of the IAC report the witnesses who gave evidence to the Commission on behalf of firms stated that in the case of their firms over the four years to 1975-76 the return on funds used was 11.2 per cent, 10 per cent, 2.5 per cent and 6.1 per cent. Of course, the profitability of the textile industry as a whole is much higher than that. As was pointed out in a superb article in the  Canberra Times  on 2 March 1978, the profitabilitythat is, the ratio of operating profits to funds employed- of the whole textile industry for 1975-76 was of the order of 22 per cent plus. So an increase in employment in these industries will not be created merely by increasing their profitability. 
That is right. That is the principal reason why the Oppositions 's payroll tax proposition in the last election campaign was dreadfully wrong and unfair. Increasing profitability does not increase employment. The principle involved in supporting the IAC's decision to recommend a bounty is the same principle as was used to reject the payroll tax proposition of the Opposition and its imagined effect on employment in the last election campaign. In Australia the proposition of zero growth with increasing employment in industry, which finds it very difficult to reallocate resources, is an impossibility. It just cannot occur. I turn now to the textile industry. I wish to refer for just a few moments to some of the reallocations of resources that are involved. I shall return to this theme in this House over and over again. It has become clear to me that in times of economic restraint, or economic recession, certain parts of Australia are far more vulnerable to the effects of that restraint than are other parts. The State of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)Victoria  always does magnificently well in times of economic recession. It does very well compared with the rest of Australia. My State, because of the lack of the transfer involved in measures such as this, does very badly. 
I shall illustrate quite quickly one point concerning the textile industry. According to the IAC's draft report on the textile, clothing and footwear industries- I shall refer only to the textile industry, which is the industry with which this Bill is concerned- the net subsidy equivalent given to the textile industry in 1975-76 was of the order of $ 1 20m plus. That is big money. It is also clear that the subsidy given to the textile industry a year earlier, which would have been a little lower, was of the order of $2,960 per employee. 
That is all very well. But I went a little further and found that there were 40,000 people employed in the industry in Australia in December 1976-1 do not like using too many figures- and that the recipients of that subsidy were broken up on the following State basis: 11,000 employees in New South Wales; nearly 23,000 employees in Victoria; 1,100 employees in Queensland; 2,200 employees in South Australia; 800 employees in Western Australia; and a little over 2,000 employees in Tasmania. I shall now transfer the benefits from State to State to illustrate the point I am making. I believe this is the crux and the kernel of the argument I shall put. The benefit through measures such as this which transfer assistance to industry in terms of the States in 1974-75, which understates the figure in terms of this year, is as follows: New South Wales received $34m of the $120m total; Victoria was fortunate to have received $70m; Queensland received a little over $3m; South Australia received $6.5m; Western Australia received $2. 3m; and Tasmania received $6m. All I am saying is that in circumstances where it is argued that the reallocation of resources in Australia is important and has to be considered, part of the measures to determine how those resources are to be reallocated has to be the net subsidy equivalents of tariffs, quotas, bounties and other forms of industry assistance. That argument has to be on the table in the future and not under the table. 
It is not sufficient for a government in times of economic restraint to say: 'We are going to cut public expenditure', which may be a correct economic decision, and to say: 'We have to cut capital expenditure; we will cut that', if at the same time the subsidy equivalents of the use of the external trade powers continue on, are not measured and are not cut. In every recession from Prime Minister Scullin's day- that was a depression for which he was not responsible- the reaction of every government has been to cut public expenditure, which is a decision with which I am not arguing, and to increase the transfers as pan of the use of the external trade powers. We want those transfers measured and discussed by the States at an appropriate forum, such as a Premiers Conference. That is the precise reason why in times of economic restraint some States are much more vulnerable than others. 
I refer again to the principle which I stated when I began my speech a few moments ago. The subsidisers should not have to experience a standard of living lower than that of those who are receiving the subsidy. Because of the way in which affairs have been managed in Australia over the years that is the actual situation at present; it is the case. I am not making an argument with respect to free trade; I am making an argument with respect to fair shares and fair returns for equal products. To diverge for one moment, those people who scarify and lacerate the Hamersleys and the Utahs of this world do themselves a stupid injustice because the value of the output of those producers is what enables those bounties and net subsidy equivalents to be paid to the industries which happen to be situated in some of the industrialised States in the south eastern corner of Australia. It enables the return per person engaged in those industries to be greater than the increase in the value of output attributable to those people. So it should be. But let us have the equalising mechanism put in order and put in train. 
This Bill is welcome. Its provisions have been recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission in the best manner possible. The use of the bounty deserves to be applauded. The actual subsidies involved in this Bill are relatively small. The subsidies involved in the group of industries of which the one dealt with in this Bill is a small part are relatively very large. We merely request that the amount of those transfers be known, calculated, measured and discussed within the Australian federation. I return again to the position of my own State, which receives very little from this legislation. It is not sufficient that that State, which is the largest exporting State in Australia and hence the State which, together with Western Australia, enables those subsidy equivalents to be paid, should have the lowest standard of household living in Australia at the present stage. 
There is something wrong with the distribution of resources within the economic federation of Australia. It is not sufficient that 8.5 per cent of the work force of Queensland be registered as unemployed when subsidies are going from that State to other parts of the Commonwealth. It is not sufficient that there be one job newspaper advertisement for every 1,200 people in the State whereas some of the subsidised States of Australia, according to the ANZ Banking Group Ltd's index, have a newspaper advertisement for every 500 or 600 people within those States and that the deterioration should be likewise. The people of Queensland should not be the wood and water Joeys of the Commonwealth. I support the Bill. It deserves support. The principles on which the IAC has made its determinations deserve to be applauded. Over and over again I shall return to this aspect of economic federalism in Australia. The IAC, in making the type of determination it has been making, is doing a service for this country for which it deserves to be applauded. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Before I call the honourable member for Brisbane, I point out that this Bill deals with polyester-cotton yarn. I allowed some latitude to the honourable member for Lilley but it would be out of order in regard to both the nature of the Bill and the presentation of the Bill by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs for the House to go into a general debate on this question. 
I just know, from the words of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  that other honourable members are completely entranced with the significance of this Bill. All of our minds are overcome with its enormous significance. After all, it is a Bill to give assistance for bench or pedestal drilling machines. No matter how small a Bill is, it may contain some very great principles. The old Latin proverb, multum in parvo, can certainly apply in this respect. Let me refer to some of the principles involved in this proposal put forward by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  The report with which we are dealing is part of a larger report by the Industries Assistance Commission on the metal working machine tools industry, which was presented to the Government late last year and which, I presume, the Government is still considering. A few things need to be said about it. 
I do not intend to traverse the same ground as has been traversed by the previous speaker. Bounties deserve a great deal of support from the Australian community, as they are a preferable method of assistance to other methods of assistance, for a number of reasons. The previous speaker referred to three of the reasons. Let me refer to a fourth. Obviously bounties distort the market place as a signalling mechanism far less than tariffs, quotas and combinations of tariffs and quotas. It is quite true that, if resources are to be allocated satisfactorily in Australia, if the correct allocation of resources is a principal matter to be considered in respect of the Australian economy, one has to know where the benefits go and who pays the benefits no matter what industry is concerned. 
I am fascinated that so much splendid academic expertise has been devoted over recent years to unravelling other forms of assistance to see what is really meant by them. We have had estimates of the consumer tax equivalent of certain forms of assistance. There are estimates of the gross subsidy equivalent and the net subsidy equivalent. I referred to one of them in the House last week. Previously there were calculations of nominal and effective taxes. All the refinements of what is actually involved in terms of protection for industry are devoted to unravelling what is the actual magnitude of the protection, how much it is and what it is in understandable terms. 
So those five terms have come into general use in Australia when industry is referred to. Much of the difficulty of unravelling, for example, what is a net subsidy is avoided by utilising the bounty mechanism. The consumer is advantaged. The House knows what is involved in the process. We know where the subsidies go. Once that is known, the correct allocation of resources in Australia is able to be proceeded with satisfactorily. So I support this Bill for a number of reasons. 
One other comment ought to be made, and I think it is appropriate. It is quite clear that in this industry, as in other industries, the opportunity for it to produce at a satisfactory level of output is related to the dynamism of the Australian economy. One has to be very careful these days that the economy does not sink into a long term recessive mental attitude. The greatest need in Australia is to get out of a continuing recessive mentality as to the rate of growth required in this country. It is quite clear that we will be able to proceed with the appropriate and correct allocation of resources only if there is an adequate rate of growth in the economy. A stagnant economy produces intolerable problems if resources are to be allocated correctly. Surely the French discovered that in the years leading up to World War II. The difficulty of re-allocating resources in a period of slumpflation or stagnation or during stationary stages in the economy is too great for democratic governments to contemplate. This Bill, by dealing with the principle of bounties, deals with a principle which will enable Australia to see what it has to do in the years ahead. 
I wish to mention one or two details of the Bill itself. The bounty involved is $125,000 in a full year. What is that worth? Five principal firms are involved. The two main ones are Sterling Machinery Pty Ltd, which is located in New South Wales, and Waldown Machine Tools Pty Ltd, which is located at Abbotsford in Victoria. They account for 90 per cent of the sales or the products of the industry. It is worthwhile mentioning in passing that having regard to their total number of employees- I do not know whether this includes the managerial staff- a subsidy of $2,500 per person per year is being made available to those firms. That is based on March 1978 figures. It is a significant amount and the House should take account of it. Obviously that amount of subsidy is necessary. But it is an amount about which the House has a right to know. If this assistance were to have been provided by the other mechanisms available- tariffs, quotas and a combination of the two- one would have to enter into a complicated series of calculations to try to unravel what would happen. I cannot help but feel that many firms, in making pleas for assistance, deliberately choose the most complex mechanisms so that the magnitude of the assistance required will not be known to the Australian taxpayer. It certainly would not be known to those industries receiving less than the average assistance in Australia. They are the ones which ultimately enable the resources to be transferred in order that the protection can be provided. 
I conclude with the point on which I began. The principles involved in this Bill are important. They enable the correct allocation of resources to occur. They will enable it to occur when a significantly higher rate of economic growth is achieved in Australia. The nature of the thinking involved in this Bill, in the proposals it makes, and in the IAC report deserves to be applauded by the House both for its sense and for its balance. 
I want to refer to one of the most farsighted proposals ever put forward by a government in this House. I refer to the proposal for the development of Brisbane Airport. On 22 November 1977 the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  following the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the evening before, indicated that the 1972 plan for the development of Brisbane Airport would proceed in three stages. He indicated first that the 02 right runway, together with ancillary areas, including terminal areas, would be constructed. He indicated that this would be followed by a cross runway and then followed by the third stage consisting of the 02 left runway. 
He indicated also that work on the airport would commence within several months. 
My purpose in speaking tonight is to explore the timetable for the development of that airport and to relate that development to some of the very significant capital works that have occurred in Australia. A little research indicates that a reasonable time for the development of an airport is not all that great. I am informed, for example, that the design stage to the completion stage of Tullamarine Airport took from 1 962 to 1 969. 1 can recollect it being opened on the eve of the 1969 election. I recollect also that construction time of the Sydney Harbour Bridge was from 1925 to 1932. I am informed also- the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  would know this-that the great Nullarbor Plain railway proposal of the first World War was commenced in 1912 and completed in 1917. In all these proposals there is a measurable and reasonable length of time during which the proposal was commenced and completed. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  would understand that I hesitate to suggest that the construction of the Brisbane Airport should in any way be related to the Eastern Suburbs Railway. The other day I was looking at a copy of the  Sydney Morning Herald  dated 13 May 1916. The construction of that railway commenced on 13 May 1916. It is still continuing in 1978. On the same page as the story about the Eastern Suburbs Railway there was a story concerning the seige of Petrograd. Petrograd went out of existence in the Russian revolution but the Eastern Suburbs Railway has continued for another 60 years. On the same page we saw that  Sir Roger  Casement was undergoing trial. They have buried  Sir Roger  Casement twice since that date, but the Eastern Suburbs Railway continues. 
I merely put forward to the Government and to the Minister for Transport the proposition that some concern is developing that a construction time for the development of the Airport should be announced. It is nearly four months since the election. It is within a day or so of being four months since the announcement was made. The people in my State and many members from my State- I include the honourable member for Herbert in Northern Queensland and the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)-  are becoming agitated about this matter. I was delighted, therefore, to learn that in any proposals he has for a terminal at Brisbane Airport  Sir Reginald  Ansett proposes that the construction of that terminal shall be for two to three years. He emphasised this to me over and over again on the telephone the other day. In other words, any proposal concerning that terminal will work in over a reasonable time with the construction of the Airport. For example, the extensions of Sydney Airport were completed within four to five years. The proposals I put to the House are these. I hope that within a short period of time the Government will indicate its timetable for the construction of stage one. I hope it will indicate also the beginning of procedures that will show that construction can begin. I hope also that both will occur within a reasonable period of time. Australia needs capital works programs. That will have to be something - 
-Has the Prime Minister seen reports of advertisements which indicate that the New South Wales Government expects the New South Wales work force to increase at the least by 40,000 but certainly very slowly over the next three to four years? While conceding that  Mr Wran  has a vested interest in pessimism, can the Prime Minister indicate - 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
Is he able to say whether the Prime Minister of Thailand, General Kriangsak, made a courageous statement on 1 March 1978 that he valued and supported a defence pact with Australia and New Zealand among other nations, and that the mutual defence understanding of the SEATO Treaty remained fully operative. 
If so, what is the Australian Government attitude towards these statements. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1 978: 
1 ) Has an application been made to extend the present Ansett terminal at Brisbane Airport. 
If so, (a) has such an application been considered and (b) when is a decision likely to be announced. 
In view of his promise and the promise of the Prime Minister to begin the rehabilitation of Brisbane Airport in 1978, has an alternative site been proposed for the enlarged Ansett terminal. 
In view of past history, does he appreciate that any proposal to extend the terminals without physical evidence of the airport reconstruction program will be viewed suspiciously by the people of Queensland. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Finance as the Minister in charge of expenditure. Has he seen the comments made by Professor Nevile, who is well known to this Government, concerning recent Commonwealth Budgets and general economic policy in relation to what he nominates as their effective expenditure policy'? To what rate of growth of the total economy are present expenditure patterns attuned? To what rate of growth of the employed work force should the balance of expenditure items be appropriate over the next three months of this financial year? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement by  Mr Liao  Cheng-chin, a member of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, made in Peking on 28 February 1978, that the United States of America should sever its diplomatic and military links with the Republic of China. 
Has the Australian Government pursued relations with the Republic of China in a manner completely acceptable to the Chinese Peoples' Republic. 
If not, what actions concerning diplomatic relations with the Republic of China has the Australian Government pursued which are not completely and totally acceptable to the Chinese Peoples' Republic. 
Can he say whether the United States of America and Canada require the same guarantees of a person visiting their countries from the republic of China as are required by Australia. 
Has the Australian Government since 1973 discussed with the Government of the Chinese Peoples' Republic any softening of its rigid attitude towards the Republic of China; if so, when did these discussions take place. 
Is it accepted by the Government that a clearly independent nation of 17 million people demands recognition. 
Can action be taken in this respect so as to demonstrate that Australia 's foreign policy is its own and not that required by the Chinese Peoples ' Republic. 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen the three comments made by the first Australian Ambassador to China in his lectures and in his book, subsequent to his return to this country. Firstly, that we- that is, Australia- lack the mechanisms for consultation with China, or even fear China as a threat to our allegedly free enterprise system; secondly, that in spite of undertakings on trade we imposed import restrictions in a manner which ultimately damaged credibility; and, thirdly, that on at least two matters Australia is rudely offhand when 'it comes to China's major exports to Australia'? Did the former Ambassador discuss these grievances with the present Government and, if so, when? What was the Ambassador's response to those discussions? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. I refer to a report which appears at page 17 of today's  Sydney Morning Herald.  Under a photograph of a pensive Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  appears the heading: 'No problems with ChinaPeacock'. It is a report on a question which I asked in the House yesterday. The paragraph which is in error reads: 
He was answering a question from  Mr K.  Cairns (Lib, Qld) who said that  Dr Stephen  Fitzgerald, former Australian Ambassador to China, had remarked that Australia saw China as a threat to the free enterprise system. 
The paragraph goes on further. The question which I put was substantially different from that, and the point I made in relation to the remarks of the former Ambassador to China and his return to Australia was different from that.  Dr Fitzgerald  stated: 
Because we lack the awareness and the will, we also lack the mechanisms for consultation, or even fear them as a threat to our allegedly free enterprise system. 
The sense of those two comments is quite different, and I suggest that the report is significantly in error. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, refers to an announcement he made the other day in answer to a question that the former Ambassador to China is likely to head an Australia-China foundation. Does the Minister know that the former Ambassador has repeatedly stated- a statement with which I agree- that an awareness of the Chinese view of the world is essential to any process of conducting negotiations with or seeking to understand China? Is he aware, however, that  Dr Fitzgerald  has never disavowed his support for that point of view? Nowhere does he deny it as valid although it is characterised by him as being a 'Chinese form of MarxismLeninism'. Therefore, does the Minister consider that these are appropriate stances to take in an objective, disinterested post which the position of  chairman  of the Australia-China foundation should be? 
I  move: 
That this House is of the opinion that the development of Australia should be accompanied by the development of the 
Australian people and that an ageing population growing at zero growth is not in the best interests of this country's contribution to the prosperity of its own people and the South East Asian region and that, therefore, policies be adopted concerning immigration and the Australian family, which remedy the present trend of events having regard to the development, employment and social justice obligations of Government. 
We have only a few moments in which to put forward the ideas behind the motion. It relates to immigration and to the social justice circumstances of immigration programs developed in Australia. On 2 August 1945 one of the most farreaching statements made in 30 or 40 years was made in this Parliament by the former right honourable member for Melbourne,  Mr Calwell,  who said: 
If Australians have learned one lesson from the Pacific war now moving to a successful conclusion, it is surely that we cannot continue to hold our island continent for ourselves and our descendants unless we greatly increase our numbers. 

 His concern was immediately and proximately with defence. We are concerned now with immigration because we are concerned with the economic defence of Australia. One was a material manifestation of our problems; the other one is Australia's position as a significant nation in the rapidly growing and the most dynamic part of this globe. I refer to Asia. I have been dreadfully concerned, as has been the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  to see over recent years the decline in the rate of increase in the Australian population and the development of fertility which is now at a level 10 per cent below that required for zero population growth. Under those circumstances, no government with any sense or with any sense of responsibility can stand back and say: 'Well, it is none of our concern'. 
I say that bearing in mind that there are those who advocate zero population growth for Australia. Those who advocate zero population growth advocate increasing distress and hurt for the Australian people. If Australian industry is ever to restructure itself in order to face the 1980s and 1 990s, that restructuring will be dreadfully painful if it is done in a static population growth position. The French had a delightful expression for it because they experimented with this proposition for very many decades, namely in the period up to World War I and in the period between the two world wars. The expression they used was 1'economie sclerotique. The nutrion of their own economy was sclerosed within their arteries and veins. We do not want that kind of position to apply to Australia. 
So, for a whole host of social and hard economic reasons, I ask the Government to be bold in relation to immigration, and to be bold with a sense of justice. Why should the Government be bold? Let me give one or two details in relation to the present position. During the last five financial years from 1971-72 to 1976-77, the rate of growth of the Australian population has been 1.67 per cent, 1.56 per cent, 1.53 per cent, 1.1 per cent and 1.05 per cent. Because of immigration there was a slight boost in the second half of last year. But the trend is clear and the trend is obvious. We ask only that Australians be aware of it. 
I say further that, not only in terms of domestic markets for industry but also in terms of support for the population, the nature of the Australian population is important. There is no greater threat to the welfare of the aged than that the aged are part of a population which is at zero rate of growth or less than zero rate of growth, because their own benefits inevitably will be reduced under those circumstances, as has occurred in every country. The honourable member for Perth and I are concerned about the welfare of Australian people and a new sense of dynamism - 
The honourable member for Perth has had the good sense to indicate that he will second this motion. There is a need for a sense of dynamism for an expanding Australian manufacturing industry. People can talk about manufacturing industry in Australia being attracted to exports but the export potential of that industry will and must remain strictly limited in its capacity. It will depend upon a growing market in order to be able to develop what exports are possible. I do not wish to dwell upon that further. 
There are three matters of social justice which I would ask the Government to consider in relation to its migration program. The first is that an Australian family policy ought to accompany a migration policy. There ought not be a gap and a barrier between the two. I find it difficult to justify, for example, that Australia's assistance to young marrieds with children is one of the lowest in the world at the same time as it should be considering, and rightly so, an increased migration policy. I ask the Government to consider that proposition. It is not a matter of demonstrating a relationship between family allowance or family assistance and fertility. It is a matter of justice as between the child born to an Australian family and the child born overseas who is to be a migrant to this country. Justice must exist between the two. We know that the nature of the changeover from the tax rebate scheme to the family allowance scheme was first class, putting that money directly into the hands of the mother. We know also however, that there was a reduction in terms of the total household income then available to all taxpaying families with children. That must be acknowledged. We know what inflation has done. I merely say: Consider justice as between an Australian family and a migration program. The two are interrelated. 
Another proposition I wish to put is that an expansive economic program should accompany any scheme that invites migrants to come to this country. There has to be an extension of demand for labour at the same time that an increased migrant program is developed overseas. Whether migrants are skilled or unskilled, if there is a contracting demand for labour there will of necessity be a displacement of a migrant as an addition to the work force and an Australian as an addition to the work force. A migration program and this sense of dynamism will enable both to be accommodated. My third proposition concerns housing. The greatest problem in housing is the deposit gap. The greatest problem in respect of the deposit gap exists for young marrieds when they have children. The deposit gap has increased by between four and five times since 197 1. The Australian Labor Party's proposition of fiddling rather stupidly with interest rate schemes only exacerbated the problem. It tried to hide the deposit gap problem. I ask the Government to consider what it might do in respect of the deposit gap for young marrieds who have the care of children, at the same time as it looks at a new and bold immigration policy that might be implemented with a sense of justice. 
-The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has made one fundamental basic mistake which runs through everything that he said. No consideration of a tax measure can be conducted in isolation. It has to be considered against the background of all the other taxation measures operative in a country. I make another point: No proposal in relation to taxation can be considered apart from the history of those who propose the criticism of a taxation measure. As we know, equity has been the overriding principle according to which the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Gellibrand, has criticised the taxation proposals. The sense of equity that would make him happy is everybody groaning equally under an intolerably weight and yoke. But he has forgotten one aspect: It is totally impossible to develop equity in a tax system unless basically there is a low rate of taxation in the system. If a high taxation system is proposed, considerations of equity, of necessity, must be secondary. That is a lesson that should apply in Australia as it has applied around the world. Let me remind the honourable member of a piece of history in this respect. One of the most important documents in relation to total taxation rates ever published was published in the last quarter of the Second World War. It was a contribution to the  Economic Journal  by  Dr Colin  Clark, who now writes for a number of newspapers. In that document he put the proposition that a country would get into trouble if the total taxation take were to exceed 25 per cent of what was then called, in that old fashioned terminology, 'gross national product'. The world, including the many economists advising governments, laughed at the proposition that there could be an upper limit beyond which an electorate and a people would reject proposals.  Dr Clark  nominated 25 per cent. The Western world was developing the welfare state and upper limits on the total tax takes by government were rejected by many governments. The rejection of that proposition and of that philosophy by those who should know better has been ignored to the detriment of those who have so rejected it. So the Labor Party would do better to concern itself with equity when it proposes taxation rates which lower the burden on every person of either income or wealth who is liable to taxation. 
The second point which I find fascinating brings me back to the facts of history. One has to return to the facts of history. When the Government proposes to abolish estate duties and gift duties over a certain period, it is extremely difficult to take criticism from a party which, in the last general election, proposed to impose a taxation burden upon every income taxpayer in the nation. If the equity of the system is to be considered, I remind the Opposition- and it has to be reminded over and over again - 
-It would do infinitely more than your proposals in terms of payroll tax. Let me illustrate my argument. Although the equity of the system should be the overwhelming and the prime consideration- and bear in mind that Labor was going to transfer over $500m worth of tax benefits out of the pockets of wage earners in Australia to the board rooms of the largest companies- the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd would have had presented to its board room from the Labor Party through an imposition upon the wage earners an amount of $33. 5m. That was in 1976 dollars. So when the Government is castigated in this place for not considering matters of equity the honourable member for Gellibrand must understand that we will revert over and over again to the arguments that he put and historically they were put only six months ago. I believe this to be a valid point to make. 
These taxation measures are not the largest that can be taken by any government. In 1 977-78 the proposals will be worth about $2. 5m. In the subsequent year these proposals will be worth well over $30m and when they are fully in operation in 1979-80 they will be worth $95m to $96m. Compared with the total burden of taxation they are therefore not a particularly large item. They represent a small item but they do something for some people who have had a yoke placed on them over recent years. They add something in terms of incentive. The other proposition which I find fascinating as it was argued by the Opposition is simply this: Opposition supporters seem to be forgetting what their own State Labor governments are doing because when the Prime MinisterMr Willis- I was talking about the State governments. 
-I am talking not about the Victorian Labor Party. I am talking about a Labor Party that occasionally wins power. Have a look at the New South Wales Labor Party. On the very day that the Prime Minister announced that this tax was to be abolished in Australia,  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales, said that this proposal was in line with New South Wales Government policies. Yet the Opposition has come into this House and proposed something which its own party in New South Wales contradicts. Further,  Mr Wran  said that the Treasurer,  Mr Jack  Renshaw, will make moves in the total abolition of death duties beginning in the next New South Wales Budget. Against that background the honourable member for Gellibrand, being unaware of what is happening amongst his colleagues in the rest of Australia, has come into this House and said- 
-Yes, but you are unaware of what a successful Labor Government has to do. You are unaware of the fact that no Labor Party will be elected in this country unless it faces the continuing and the greatest economico-political problem that exists. It is up to the socialist party to demonstrate to the people of Australia that in Government it will be capable of reducing and enabled to reduce the rate of taxation. I remind the honourable member that during the last year in office of the Labor Party not just this tax but the largest bulk of tax revenue was at a higher level in the dollar than when John Curtin was Prime Minister during the depths of World War II. Labor has to live with that past. Its supporters have to live with that history. To come into this place and to make some judgment on equity about a tax that involves $90m when Labor has that enormous task to live down belies simple common sense and those people who make judgments as to what they want to surrender to government will make those judgments in common sense. We say quite clearly that this legislation is part of the proposal whereby tax rates are capable of being reduced in Australia. They need to be reduced further and they always need to be reduced with a fair sense of equity. Unless there is equity the Australian people will reject any proposal in relation to tax at all. The total tax system has to be considered. 
I turn to the Senate report to which the honourable member for Gellibrand referred. I am fascinated that he still supports the nature of this report. I refer to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations presented in December 1973. There was a majority report and there was a minority report. The majority report in relation to this issue was a report brought down by the Labor members of that Senate committee. They did not propose the abolition of this tax. They merely proposed to make it uniform. They proposed to make it uniform, at whatever level, and either to return the money to the States or to find some alternative proposition- they could not make up their own minds- whereby the money could be returned to the residents domiciled in the States responsible for having the tax rates made uniform with the Commonwealth rates. 
So forgetting that tax rates are to be low and that equity is to be a consideration, they got things mixed up with their own sense of uniformity in all things at all times. The Labor Party will have to depart from that kind of mentality if it is to be elected to office in Australia. When one looks at what has happened in respect of this tax another thing is perfectly clear- that a number of State governments proposed to reduce this tax not because the Commonwealth wants it to be a burden on the States but basically because they judge this tax to be inequitable. For example, we know that once the States reduce the tax, as happened in Queensland, it means more for the Commonwealth from the way in which prior impositions of the tax are levied. Once the Commonwealth reduces the tax as is proposed in this legislation there is no set-off in relation to the States. 
The Commonwealth proposes to reduce the tax. There is no pressure upon the States to follow the Commonwealth in like manner. What is happening is that the States make their own judgments in their own way and they are deciding to follow suit. I have given the example of what the New South Wales Government proposed to do. Without any pressure whatsoever the Victorian Government has taken a number of steps. The Western Australian Government has announced a timetable within which its tax is to be totally abolished. There is another overriding reason that these taxes ought to be abolished. They are reducing taxes with increasing costs. This form of tax is not a good one. If revenue is to be raised it can be raised more equitably and with greater knowledge by other means. 
The most costly taxes to collect are gift and estate duties. Of the revenue collected from estate duty  3Vi  per cent is taken up in collection costs. Over 9 per cent of the gift duty revenue is taken up in collection costs. On the basis of economic common sense I suggest it is appropriate to set in train measures whereby both of these taxes should be abolished. These measures could be a part of a total rationalisation of the tax system. The Opposition would have done better had it said: 'Well, we do not oppose the abolition of this tax but there ought to be a total reorganisation of the tax system'. However, the Opposition proposes that the Bill be withdrawn. In other words, the Opposition says that this tax should be continued. In so doing it has made a very fundamental and a very bad mistake. 
We say that any measure that reduces tax deserves support. We say that a government cannot consider the matter of equity until tax is reduced. I do not support the proposition, for example, that when a State government abolishes estate duty ipso facto it creates a good deal of development in that State that otherwise would not have occurred. I would say that the economic benefit to my own State of Queensland flowing from the abolition of death duties has probably been nil when one considers the pluses and the minuses, quite apart from the given doctrine which honourable members opposite have propounded. But what I do say is that such a tax ought to be abolished because it makes the total taxation rate too high. 
Debate interrupted. 
-When the debate was interrupted last night I was pointing out that a decision by a State to abolish what are called death duties does not bring a measurable economic benefit to that State on account of that move. This has to be pointed out as my own State of Queensland abolished death duties and there is a wide belief that because they were abolished the economic effects to Queensland were very great. It is not true. I believe that, having regard to the investment processes that are then involved, there was no attendant requirement for people who have qualified for the abolition of death duties to invest within a State. They merely have to establish their domicile or their home within that State. That was the net benefit. 
As most of these people tended to be aged, the weight upon State social services and social services of all kinds is probably balanced because of the fact that homes were built for those people who ultimately established domicile within the State. So the net economic benefit to a State in terms of that kind of an arrangement, I think, is probably nil. Nevertheless it was done for reasons of equity. 
In the time remaining for me in this debate I want to summarise the position. The Labor Party's argument against this measure is mistakenly put on at least four counts. The Labor Party has considered the estate and gift duty legislation in terms of that legislation alone, not in terms of the whole of the taxation system. Ultimately in three years this legislation will involve over $90m a year. The total tax take within the Commonwealth is over $20,000m a year. So it is totally wrong of the Labor Party to consider gift and estate duty legislation in isolation. Secondly, in accusing the Government of a lack of fairness or equity Labor forgets its own position whereby last year, just six months ago, it proposed to take $700m out of the pockets of Australian wage earners and instead to put it into the board rooms of Australia's largest companies. For example, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd would have got $33m and Imperial Chemical Industries would have received $9m. I could cite many examples. So one has to reject the charge that this is not a matter of equity because the mote is in the eyes of Labor Party supporters. 
The third proposition simply is that equity is an important principle in considering taxation but it is not the only one. Equity is unable to be considered unless firstly there is a decision to reduce taxation rates, otherwise where there is an equally unbearable tax burden upon each taxpayer there is total equity in that position but an unbearable total tax burden. That is the kind of proposition which the Opposition and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  forgot when they put forward their own case. They also forgot the fourth point; that is, that their own State colleagues, particularly in New South Wales, the State from which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  comes, propose to abolish succession duties.  Mr Wran  has promised it. He proposes to take the first step towards that abolition in this year's Budget. So this Opposition is in direct contradiction with its colleagues in the States. 
I would pose one or two points in respect of gift duty. The abolition of the gift duty naturally backed up the abolition of estate duty and succession duty because it has always been a necessary accompaniment. It has been a very expensive tax to collect because each transaction has had to be examined in detail; that is why it is the most expensive of any tax in Australia to collect. I pose two questions to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  and I hope that he will consider them. On the abolition of gift duty what loss will there be of income tax from gifts now able to be passed from husband to wife or from one spouse to another, thus enabling a lower rate of total income tax to be levied upon those households? As there will be a loss of income tax I hope the Government would then consider its way clear to look at the proposal that income tax be halved as between husband and wife and households because we do know that in Australia the greatest burden lies upon one income households. The benefit to those households in being able to share income tax is already being compensated for by the loss which will occur in income tax upon the transfer of gift duty, and such a transfer would enable tax revenue to be collected at significantly less cost. The Bill deserves to be supported. I know that the Minister will take that suggestion on board and will examine it and I hope that over the next three years the Taxation Office and the Treasury will be invited to put forward estimates on the loss which will result if the transfer had not otherwise occurred. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Continued Press reports in recent times have indicated that  Dr Stephen  Fitzgerald has been touted as the first  chairman  of the AustraliaChina Foundation. It has been widely reported in the Press that he has powerful friends in the Government and that he is a friend of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Notwithstanding that, I ask one simple, straightforward question: Is  Dr Fitzgerald  suitable to hold such a position? 
Opposition members-  Yes. 
-Is he sufficiently informed to hold such a position? 
Opposition members-  Yes. 
-Is he sufficiently balanced to hold such a position? 
Opposition members-  Yes. 
-Is his judgment adequate to hold such a position? 
Opposition members-  Yes. 
-I am sorry to hear the repeated chorus from the Opposition, because I am of the undoubted point of view that he is not. I am of the view that he is not suited to hold the first appointment as  Chairman  of the AustraliaChina Foundation, for five reasons, not the least important of which is that he has come desperately close in his own views not only to saying that Australians should understand the Chinese view of the world but also that Australia should support the Chinese view of the world. From the time of the Han dynasty there has been the tradition of the kow-tow in respect of other nations' rulers who go to China. The modern version of that has been that China has regarded both super powers as being equally objectionable. That would leave China as the leader of the Third World. That has always been her proposition. I am disturbed to find that  Dr FitzGerald  comes desperately close to supporting that view over and over again both in his public broadcasts and in his writings. The most notable statement whereby he comes close to supporting the Chinese view of the world as his own view is found at page 18 of his book  China and the World.  It is interesting that he writes: 
But it is interesting that the Chinese direct their criticism at both Super Powers, whose societies we tend to regard as political opposites, and in both cases their argument is about the record of external behaviour- and is not without foundation. 
I do not support the proposition that the  chairman  of an Australia-China Foundation should equate the United States of America with Soviet Russia in terms of the reprehensibility of their external behaviour and I hope that nobody on this side of the chamber would do so. The second point is very important. He makes errors of fact. He repeats, in terms of American relations with China, the proposition that America for 1 7 years refused to have such relations. What he forgets is that from 1950 to 1954 it was impossible to have relations with China on her own term. From 1955 there was an agreement between the United States and China in terms of the repatriation of persons, which China did not uphold. The only period during the 1 7 years in which it was possible to have the relations which  Dr Fitzgerald  proposes, in accordance with China's point of" view, was from 1956 to 1957, after which there was an anti-rightist coup which was in fact promoted by Mao Tse-tung. These are mistakes of fact and of history. 
He also, in referring to the Shanghai communique of 1972, states the interpretation of that communique which has been continually propounded by Peking, but not the adumbration of that communique which was made perfectly clear by  Dr Kissinger.  He made it clear that in relations between America and Taiwan the defence treaty was not to be abrogated. The fourth point in which he is found to be in error, in terms not only of historical fact but also of interpretation, is that he comes desperately close to proposing as valid the absurd proposition of Peking that government-to-government relations shall not interfere with party-to-party relations, in Peking's relations with other countries in the world. Under present circumstances, that has operated merely as a cover for China to promote her own revolutionary movements in Malaysia, in Thailand and, in particular, in Burma.  Dr Fitzgerald  recognises this and gives his own support for them. 
In respect of the fifth point, I refer to page 105 of his book, in which he casts serious doubt on whether a private enterprise system such as that of Australia can by its very nature negotiate trade with China. There are some rather undergraduatish comments upon the nature of our system, but under those circumstances I say without hesitation or reservation that  Dr Fitzgerald  has insufficient judgment, insufficient understanding and insufficient balance to fill this most important position- one of very great prestigeas the first  chairman,  recommended by the Government, of the Australia-China Foundation. It would do Australia no good and it would certainly give China a misunderstanding of what Australia's point of view of the world ought to be. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
With reference to the Taiwanese journalist,  Mr Edward  Tseng, and his request for a visa to come to Australia for the International Press Institute meeting, are the conditions which  Mr Tseng  had to satisfy similar to those required by Canada, the United States of America and Japan. 
2) If not, why are the conditions for Taiwanese coming to Australia more stringent than for those visitors from other countries including communist countries. 
Were inquiries made or comments passed as to  Mr Edward  Tseng's membership of, or association with, the Kuomintang before his visa was granted; if so, why. 
Does membership of the communist parties of China, Russia or any East or West European country act as a bar to a person being granted an Australian visa. 
Are inquiries made as to membership of a communist party before nationals from those countries are allowed into Australia. 
-The Public Service Arbitration Amendment Bill does two things: Firstly, it confers on the Public Service Arbitrator the right to stand down employees in certain circumstances. That is the principal provision of the Bill, and it is a provision with which anybody who is opposed to industrial anarchy has to agree totally. It is nonsense for the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  to indicate that this provision represents a reversion to the past. It is not a reversion to the 1 9th century. It is a plain piece of common sense. The plain fact of life is, whether it is in private enterprise or whether it is in public enterprise, if there is no work there is no pay. If there is no work, the salaries are unable to be paid. By opposing this Bill, the honourable member for Port Adelaide is inviting a situation in which he would want no authority whatsoever and in which a form of anarchy would operate within the Public 
Service. That cannot be tolerated under any circumstances whatsoever. 
It is widely known that hundreds of federal awards contain stand-down provisions. The award covering the Vehicle Builders Employees' Federation of Australia contains stand-down provisions. Many of the awards covering employees of the Australian Workers Union contain them, and there are hundreds of awards that contain stand-down provisions. Many of those awards are consent awards. So it is nonsense to say that this authority should not exist. The first principle upon which this Bill has to be supported is that if such provisions are not enshrined in legislation, we would be inviting a form of anarchy within the public sector. That situation is not tolerable. A second point needs to be made, and it is simply this: We have observed in many statutory corporations and other bodies that people have not been willing to perform all the work that is appropriate to be performed. Where all the work that is appropriate to be performed is not so performed, the right of stand-down must exist. The honourable member was saying: Throw away that right that accrues to any organisation or any authority that is an employer'. If that were done, we would have a state of total and complete anarchy. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide made a serious mistake. He overstated his opposition to this Bill. I suggest that some of those people who are briefing him have merely made him a tool of the argument that they propose. What he is proposing does not work in private enterprise and does not work in public enterprise. What he is proposing is not adopted by Labor governments in Australia when they have such authorities within their own Public Services. It is not adopted in State Conciliation and Arbitration Commissions which have an authority to stand down. He is suggesting that these provisions be placed in a state of nihilism in the Commonwealth field. Nobody could tolerate that precise proposition. Let me quote from what I stated in one industry award. I refer to part of the metal industry award which makes it quite clear that stand down provisions operate in that award also. The award states: 
The employer shall have the right to deduct payment for any day the employee cannot be usefully employed because of any strike or through any breakdown in machinery or any stoppage of work by any cause for which the employer cannot reasonably be held responsible. 
That is a reasonable proposition. Were the honourable member responsible for employing or for providing the resources and getting the revenue to pay people within his own office, he would have to abide by the same principle. Anybody would have to abide by it. It is a feature of this Bill, and it is the linchpin of the Bill. It is the crux of the legislation. 
I want to deal with one other part of the legislation which worries me. I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to consider that matter. It is a minor part of the legislation; nevertheless I think that it is important. We know that in any stand-down position there are those people who are directly involved in the process and there are those who are stood down because there is a lack of work or employment available to them. Sometimes, that second group of people, who can be quite innocent of the first stoppage, can be quite some distance from the stoppage of work that occurred in the first place. I merely ask the Minister to consider this matter carefully. I wonder whether some of the provisions with respect to the stoppage of accruals for annual leave, sick leave or long service leave ought to be applied stringently in respect of those people who have not been concerned directly in the stoppage. This does not apply in private enterprise, as much as it may be said to do so. Provisions exist whereby this could occur in private enterprise. 
When there are stand-downs of employees who are some distance from the original dispute, in the process of negotiating the settlement those matters often become a part of the process of negotiating that settlement. I know of employers who have waived the non-accrual of recreation leave, sick leave and so on for those who have not been concerned directly in a dispute but who have been involved in a stand-down. It may be said, for example, that the application of the new provisions- the non-accrual of sick leave, recreation leave and long service leave- will help to put pressure on those people who are involved directly in the dispute. I merely put this proposition to the Minister, and I ask him to consider it. There are many cases in which the pressure that could be put upon those who are directly involved in the dispute cannot be organised. 
Let me give some examples. A clerical officers strike could take place, as a result of which some stenographers or typists are stood down. They are stood down legitimately. Having been stood down, they will not be able to exert any pressure upon those employees who were responsible for the original stoppage. These could be Fourth Division officers, and the employees who went on strike originally could be in a different division altogether. There could be no influence of one group upon the other. 
Let me give another example of a situation in which a strike could occur. The employees in a certain division will stop work. Employees known as tea ladies will be stood down. They have to be stood down because there is no work for them. Why then has the accrual of recreation leave and so on been stopped in respect of the tea ladies? They are members of the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia, which is a quite distinct and separate union. They will not be able to bring any pressure to bear upon those who were responsible for the original stoppage. I find it difficult to see why this legislation, which is correct in principle, goes quite that far. 
I would like to give a third example as I think it is appropriate to consider it. Some telex operators could stop work at the Department of Defence in Canberra. That would mean that there would be insufficient work for telex operators, say, at Lavarack Barracks in North Queensland or at the Pearce Base in Western Australia. The later can have no effect upon the former in terms of stopping the dispute or of putting pressure upon those who were responsible for the dispute. I wonder why then, during the course of that dispute, one should go through the complicated process of seeing that in respect of the new mattersthat is, annual leave, sick leave, long service leave and so on- the right of accrual should be suspended for the period in which the standdowns operate for those other people. 
I am aware of one other point which might persuade the Minister to try to consider those who are the innocent parties in disputes in this area. The legislation makes it quite clear that such stand-downs will be mandatory and that no variation will be possible in respect of accrual of those other incidental matters. I am wondering whether the Minister will consider bringing about a situation whereby the Public Service Arbitrator can decide in respect of those who will have the incidental leave and accrual suspended so that they might be spared from that position. In private enterprise, where there is the right to do what is proposed in this Bill, the settlement of a dispute becomes on many occasions an appropriate bargaining point so that those involved in the dispute on both sides can save face and bring about a return to work as quickly as possible. 
I merely make those points to the Minister and hope that he will consider them. I support the principal features of the legislation. They deserve to be supported because they are necessary in order to bring about a situation in which one is not a complete hostage to industrial anarchy. I refer to one other point. The Queensland legislation has attempted to deal with this position in terms of stand-downs. A recent amendment to the Queensland Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act inserted a new section 21 A. Subsection (2) (a) of that section reads: 
Any employee stood down by an employer pursuant to sub-section (1) may appeal to an industrial magistrate against his being so stood down. 
He may appeal also in respect of the conditions which are pursuant to his being stood down. I am not suggesting that there should be the right of appeal in the Commonwealth legislation but I suggest that there is a softening of that legislation. I know that when stand-down orders are made time is allowed before the stand-down order operates. The non-accrual of sick leave and long service leave does not operate for the first seven days on which the stand-down occurs. I suggest that the Minister therefore might consider looking at what can be done so that those who are situated a great distance from the original cause of the dispute can be spared and so that what will be infinitely difficult calculations as to the non-accrual of various types of leave can be avoided. I think the Minister might consider that that would confer an advantage upon the Public Service Arbitrator in that it would give him a certain flexibility in negotiating a settlement to the dispute, which is what we all want. 
I return to the principal terms of this Bill. They have to be supported. They are principles which operate in private enterprise. They are principles which operate in public enterprise and in State jurisdictions. To abolish them totally within Commonwealth jurisdiction would be a very foolish move indeed. The honourable member for Port Adelaide, who led the debate for the Opposition, had a case which he could have made with respect to certain sections of this legislation. Once again he has overstated his position. 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. I refer to a comment of today's date that there appears to be little or no prospect of a further reduction in the rate of inflation of prices in this calendar year. As the source of that comment has consistently overestimated the rate of inflation in Australia over the last six quarters, I ask the Acting Prime Minister: To what extent is he filled with anguish and worry at the fact that this characteristically pessimistic prognostication appears in the editorial columns of today's  Australian Financial Review! 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Expenditure I present the report of the Committee on the Defence Service homes scheme together with minutes of the proceedings, the transcript of evidence and published exhibits. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave-The report which has been tabled is the first from the Expenditure Committee established in the 31st 
Parliament. It is the fourth report of the Committee. 
Continuing the general practice of the Committee the first section of the report is a summary of the report's salient features. I suggest that honourable members who are interested in the report could get a full perspective of the contents by reading the four page summary and the recommendations page. 
As honourable members would know, the Defence Service Homes scheme- DSHS- came into operation in 1919 as part of a series of repatriation measures for those who served their country in the First World War. Since then the DSHS benefits have been extended to those who served their country in World War II, other campaigns and serving members of the forces as well. 
Basically, DSHS assists eligible persons to acquire a residential dwelling. It does this by giving these persons housing loans of $15,000- the maximum- which sum, although it does not go anywhere near to covering the cost of say a standard 3 bedroom house, nevertheless gives such persons significant concessions because of the low interest rates charged, that is, about 4.5 per cent. The scheme makes a significant call on public sector resources, and costs over $ 16m a year to administer. Not only is total expenditure in excess of $ 130m in 1977-78 but it is likely also that because of the nature of DSHS similar sums of money will be required in perpetuity. 
Against this background the Committee's inquiry has been concerned primarily with an examination of whether: 
There is a more effective way to deliver the benefit than by giving housing loans at concessional interest rates, 
The scheme is being administered economically and efficiently. 
Before referring to the program alternatives the Committee considered in relation to DSHS, there are some general comments I wish to make. Evaluation of programs requires an examination, among other things, of whether there are alternatives which might yield desired results at lower costs. This work falls within clauses 1 (b) and 1 (c) of the Committee's terms of reference. Such an interpretation was supported by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet in in-camera evidence in May- June 1 976. 
In examining program alternatives the Committee has taken the stated policy objectives as given. The question the Committee has asked is, given the desire of governments to reward war veterans, to attract persons to the Services and to compensate servicemen for housing-related disabilities, and given the fact that the reward or compensation is accomplished by a housing loan, why is it not possible to compensate and reward by means of a non-repayable cash grant? The cash grant proposal, then, is another way of achieving the policy objectives. The Committee tested the feasibility of this proposal against a number of criteria, the more important of which were whether the grant would cost more than the concessional interest housing loan and whether it would benefit recipients of DSHS benefits. 
Consequently, we first examined the nonoptional or exclusive cash grant; in other words, the total replacement of loans with grants. We found the exclusive grant had a lot to offer. For example, it would lead to a significant reduction in administrative costs in the long-term, would generally benefit most recipients and particularly benefit those eligible persons who in addition to the DSHS loan also borrow from high interest short repayment period institutions- to the tune of over $50 a week. But for a number of reasons the Committee decided that the introduction of a totally exclusive cash grant to be premature. What was found to be feasible was an optional grant; that is, a system which allowed the eligible persons to choose between a loan and a grant. Our analysis shows that an optional grant of about $5,500 is equivalent to the concessional interest rate loan and should also benefit most eligible persons. Appropriate recommendations have been made. 
Such recommendations have been made after careful and systematic evaluation of the program. It is true that some of the calculations are of necessity based on broad judgments. But what should not be lost sight of is that since the grants scheme costs very little to administer, it provides the opportunity for converting significant administration costs into benefits for recipients and savings for taxpayers. It is surely axiomatic that such a proposal would make public sector spending more effective and productive. While a cash grant should allow for significant reductions in administration costs, this would happen in the longer term. The Committee therefore examined whether the scheme is being administered efficiently. In one area of administration- the processing of applications for first loans- we used an objective measure of efficiency, namely, the number of man-days used to process an application, and compared one State's performance with that of another. On the basis of these interstate comparisons we concluded that the number of staff should be reduced by 14. 
We also examined very closely the question of whether the payment of $1.6m at concessional interest rate of something like 2.3 per cent to the Australian Postal Commission is the most economical and effective way of collecting repayments from DSHS borrowers. The Committee established a prima facie case for other alternatives which could save as much as $lm a year. Additional work to that which we have initiated will be needed before our proposals become fact. We are satisfied that this can be done. There is also the question of establishing a process- a mechanism- by which parliamentary oversight and scrutiny can be continued. There are two ways of doing this. First there is a case for the Auditor-General to review the administrative efficiency of DSHS, say, in 1979-80. We have suggested this. We have also recommended that annual reports contain a series of efficiency ratios which will assist in general oversight. Whenever an organisation which the Expenditure Committee is examining reports to the Parliament annually, we will, as a general principle, examine the possibility of these reports including efficiency measures. The Parliament has the right to be informed. These are merely some of an integrated series of recommendations. 
The Committee has recorded its appreciation to the staff which assisted in this inquiry. I would also like to thank  Hansard  staff, the Australian Government Publishing Service and the Government Printer for printing this report and Miss Tania Gorman for the secretarial support she has provided. 
I am delighted to inform the House that the Committee is functioning in an atmosphere of bipartisan co-operation. I wish to thank members of the Government parties and of the Opposition for their contribution to the long and persistent work of the Committee. I thank the SubCommittee which comprised the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred),  the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  and the former member for Riverina, Lieutenant-Colonel John Sullivan, who was a member of the Sub-Committee of the Committee set up in the Thirtieth Parliament. We are all aware of the importance of our work which is basically that of making this Committee, the first of its kind in the House since Federation, an effective instrument of parliamentary scrutiny. In particular I thank the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for 
Grayndler, for his untiring efforts in this regard. I welcome this opportunity to inform the House of the Committee's work and to urge honourable members and the public to scrutinise and to evaluate our proposals so that they can be made effective to help the Australian people. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Expenditure I present the report of the Committee on the Northern Territory forestry program together with the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS (Lilley)-by leave-This report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure originated from a recommendation made to it from the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. That recommendation was inspired by a former member of the latter Committee, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  It was made subsequent to its preliminary examination of the issues in the last Parliament. This type of inquiry into the efficiency of a particular program will always constitute a significant role for the Committee in its scrutiny of government expenditure. It has been accomplished in a very short time span but necessarily will not replace broad inquiries such as those presently occurring into the Budget Estimates. The Northern Territory Forestry Program required an almost immediate response and this was made. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  responded quickly and sensitively to the subcommittee work. 
The Committee recommends a virtual cessation of forestry activities in the Northern Territory as they are now practised. We believe the planting of softwoods should be halted immediately, pending the results of at least 10 years of useful research into the prospects of some success in planting programs. We further recommend that the extensive program of maintenance of the native forests be discontinued. Other significant and consequential recommendations follow. 
The various forestry programs since 1959 were aimed at making the Territory self-sufficient in timber resources, and have cost, on our estimates, at least $30m. After almost 20 years of forestry activity, total local production of sawn wood in the Territory amounted to a mere 240 cubic metres in 1977, and at what cost? These results speak for themselves. The Committee acknowledges that forestry operations are by their very nature long term investments. However, during our inspections and in all the evidence received we saw nothing to suggest that the large sums of money invested in Northern Territory forestry would realise other than a marginal return in the very distant future. 
Why then has the program continued unchecked since 1959? One cannot escape the view that those whose responsibility it was to manage the programs felt it was not appropriate to expose their unrealistic and wasteful nature. Instead there was talk of magnificent native timber resources, excellent prosects for softwood plantations and Territorial self-sufficiency in timber in the near future. This even ran to visions of exports. This was all illusory and the basis for the growth of a forestry branch within the Department of the Northern Territory. No-one was prepared to call a halt to the growth and the few foresters who were prepared to criticise the program through legitimate channels seemed to have been victimised for it and had their careers disadvantaged. 
-I thank the honourable member for Scullin. We know of his first interest in this matter. 
In this respect I would like to clarify one point which I consider to be most important, that is, that we are not only criticising the current forestry administration in the Territory but also the Forestry and Timber Bureau of the Department of Primary Industry which had a very significant role in the development and promotion of these wasteful programs up to 1975. Without the support and encouragement of the Bureau, the forestry programs could not have developed to the extent they did. 
We have recommended that funding for the forestry program be substantially withdrawn and the responsibility for it from 1 July next will lie with the Northern Territory Government which will have to decide on the future of forestry in the Territory. The present principles of the Commonwealth Grants Commission to which that Government might seek to appeal indicate that the extent to which the forestry program was designed to serve a commercial market will result in an adverse assessment of its funds. To keep up that program will represent a net Territorial cost. Hence the only means of obtaining Commonwealth funds would be under the terms of the  Softwood Forestry Agreements Act  1978. The application for such funds, which are loan funds, would have to be considered in the light of the evidence placed before this Committee. I could not be optimistic about the success of such an application, let alone the wisdom of making the application in the first place. 
During the course of the inquiry, the estimated total cost to the Australian community of the forestry programs grew and grew from the Department's initial figure of $10m to the Committee's estimate of at least $30m. Economic and accounting practices which do not record accurately the total cost of such programs, or which do not allow the total cost to be readily available, do not enable proper evaluations and decisions based on adequate economic criteria to be made by the Parliament. With regard to our recommendations concerning assistance through local forestry matters to Aboriginals, this would be funded directly and perceptibly by the Commonwealth Government through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The report of this Committee and the evidence taken by it will be of interest and assistance to the Government of the Northern Territory. I will today be forwarding copies of both to the  Speaker  of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly for the information of all Assembly members. I wish them well in their deliberations. 
I would like to comment on the attitude to the Committee of the Department of the Northern Territory. At our second public hearing in Canberra, it was the intention of the Department to be represented by one assistant secretary only, on a matter which it was known had provoked considerable critical interest from this Committee. When my concern at this attitude was made known to the Secretary of the Department,  Mr Livingston,  an acting First Assistant Secretary was also sent to give evidence. 
A final remark concerns the outstanding service rendered to this Committee by one of Australia's most distinguished foresters,  Mr Kel 
McGrath, who was our expert adviser in this inquiry and who is listening to this speech.  His  profound knowledge of forestry and its economics, combined with his excellent good sense, allowed this Committee to complete the inquiry in the very short time available to us. The Committee records its sincere thanks to  Mr McGrath.  This report could not have been prepared in the short time span available had it not been for the open, willingly given and enthusiastic interest of the honourable member for Perth and the honourable member for Parramatta and the Expenditure Committee staff. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report in the  Age  of 9 May 1978 that  Dr Stephen  FitzGerald has been, or will be, appointed the first  Chairman  of the Australia-China Foundation; if so, is there any substance in the report. 
What special qualifications does  Dr FitzGerald  possess to occupy the position. 
Were other candidates considered for this post; if so, who were they. 
-The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has been guilty of using the most delightfully circuitous language and logic that I have heard in this place for a long time. He was able to argue that all kinds of organisations should have recognition in Australia and then somehow turn his argument to the proposition that a Rhodesia Information Centre in Australia does not qualify whereas everything else would qualify with or without flags, with or without premises and with or without rooms, to have that kind of recognition. Perhaps he has forgotten that wherever one starts in a circle one keeps on going around. 
I make two points in relation to the basis of the legislation. The legislation is quite clearly proposed because it is diplomatically convenient and because it is suitable to the Government of Yugoslavia. I refer to the speech made by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair)  when he introduced the Bill into this House. He had this to say: 
Rather, it is because the establishment of the so-called 'Embassy * in the present case and possible similar conduct in the future would have important implications for the effective operation of Australia's foreign policy and in regard to our political, trade and other relations with well-established sovereign States. 
He gave no evidence that Australia has had those relationships but expressed the thought that it may possibly have that kind of effect upon relations with other states. This merely followed the case made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in his speech on 5 April when he had this to say: 
It is because the establishment of the so-called 'Embassy' has had important ramifications for Australia- ramifications with respect to the Vienna Convention- Australia's responsibilities under it, the effective operation of Australia's foreign policy and our long-standing relations with a universally recognised nation, namely Yugoslavia- that the Government now feels it necessary . . . to take this course of action. It should be quite clear- it should be crystal clear- to the House that this is being done because the Government of Yugoslavia desires that it be done. This is exemplified further by the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the House on 5 April 1978 in relation to this matter. In referring to the Vienna Convention the Minister indicated that Article 22 had the force of law in Australia and so imposed on Australia a special duty to prevent any impairment of the dignity of a diplomatic mission accredited to this country. 
If one looks at Article 22 of the Vienna Convention it is quite clear- perfectly obvious- that the Yugolsavian Government has said to the Australian Government that the so-called Croatian Embassy is inconvenient and that it should not be here. It is clear that it said: 'We do not like it there; it needs to be closed '. That is the reason for this legislation and not adumbration of it and no false philosophising in respect of the matter can disguise that simple but stark fact. So, we can go one step further and ask what are the conditions which cause a nation to grant diplomatic recognition so that rights such as these can be exerted in the host country, Australia, by representation here. Those conditions are very important. In the few minutes left to me I merely want to give two examples which have puzzled me severely. What has happened in this instance is that a case has been made against an embassy which is said to be wrongly here. In the case  of  Taiwan, let me indicate that a case is made against a Taiwanese Embassy which, I believe, is wrongly absent. If it can be said in any way whatsoever that a nation such as Yugoslavia, or any other nation, has the right to representation here, a right to representation by virtue of Article 22 of the Vienna Convention, such rights ought to be considered or ought to apply in respect of a nation such as Taiwan. It has a separate existence. It is a nation with which we trade. It is a nation with which we have significant trading, commercial and economic activities. It is a nation which is demonstably free. Yet one is allowed to be represented here and another is not allowed to be represented here. The one country that is allowed to be here then has the right to determine what should happen to the Croatian 'Embassy' in the way that applies in this particular case. 
I suggest to the House that recognition and the rights that accompany recognition are rights of convenience. They are nothing else; they are totally rights of conveniency. One ought not to waste time recognising them for something else. One other example is worth while quoting. I refer to the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I am fascinated with his latent concern in respect of the Rhodesia Information Office. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition made it quite clear that whilst not opposing the Bill, he suggested that the House call on the Government to introduce legislation forthwith to have the effect of closing the Rhodesia Information Office. 
This comes from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition who was a senior Minister in a government which, for example, in negotiating the Accords with Peking China negotiated the most stringent and strict Accords that have been applied by any Western nation according recognition to Peking. Having done that, the Opposition now is willing to accept the absence of rights for others because it is so anxious to kow-tow in order to get diplomatic recognition. I should like to refer to one other example. The consulate of Latvia and other Baltic Consulates in Melbourne were closed under the previous Government and were opened when this Government came to power. What this Government did was to say that on this occasion it judged that there was an ethical right and a responsibility for people to have this kind of recognition, to have this recourse to a Baltic consulate and to be able to appeal to it for lots of personal, social and historical reasons. So those rights were accorded. 
In the few moments left I want to bring to the attention of the House the fact that in all of these matters there are very few immutable principles of diplomatic recognition that apply to our recognition of nations, embassies, consulates and so on. They are matters of judgment, but the judgment that we on this side of the House have made over and over again, compared with the judgment made by the Opposition, has been to recognise people unless there is undue difficulty and trouble involved. The attitude of the Opposition is to close up, to constrict. and to prevent people from recognising their rights or even from having an information centre available to them. The Opposition's amendment makes that crystal clear." 
I do not want to detain the House any longer. I merely want to say that from statements by the Foreign Minister and by the Acting Foreign Minister it is clear that this Bill, insofar as it applies to the Croatian 'Embassy' is the result of a desire by the Yugoslav Government that it be closed. That is quite clear. It is the result of pressure, and governments have to respond to pressure. Occasionally those in government must make judgments as to whether that pressure is justified. I am still waiting for evidence to indicate the effects that that embassy has on international, diplomatic and trade relations and so on. I have not been able to find it and it has not been adduced precisely in the debate here this evening. The propositions have little to do with the basis of diplomatic recognition here or overseas but because they are politically suitable they have to be followed. I support a great deal of what the honourable member for Denison has said because it is consistent with sound common sense. I do not accuse the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition of overstepping the mark in respect of this matter or other matters but the basis of the Bill ought to be understood. It is one where a political judgment is involved. It may be legally consistent, but politically it is quite inconsistent. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. Clause 5. 
1 ) Where, in a proceeding under section 4 for an injunction (including an interim injunction), the Court has found that conducted by way of displaying a sign or flag, or insignia, either within, on or outside premises, or by way of causing or permitting a sign or nag, or insignia, to be so displayed, constitutes conduct that is, in relation to a diplomatic or consular mission of a country established in Australia with the consent of the Commonwealth, conduct to which sub-section 4(1) applies, the Court may, upon application made by the Attorney-General issue a warrant authorizing the Sheriff, or a  Deputy  Sheriff, of the Court, with such assistance as he deems necessary, to remove the sign, flag or insignia from the premises, or to obliterate the sign, flag or insignia on the premises, as the case requires, and, at any time and from time to time while the warrant is in force, to remove or to obliterate, as the case requires, any similar or substantially similar sign, flag or insignia that may subsequently be displayed, within, on or outside the premises. 
A warrant issued by the Court under sub-section ( 1) may authorise entry, if necessary by force, onto or into the premises for the purpose of removing or obliterating the sign, flag, or insignia. 
Clause 6. 
1 ) The Minister may give a certificate, in writing- 
certifying that a specified mission is, or is not, a diplomatic or consular mission of a country established in Australia with the consent of the Commonwealth; 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. He will be aware that total government capital expenditure within Australia has been in some decline over recent years. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the report by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure on the Northern Territory forestry program. 
Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has indicated that Ministers should respond to committee reports within a specified time and after considered analysis of the report. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a report on 3 June 1978 that the Secretary of his Department,  Mr Livingston,  responded to the report himself, stating that he was not particularly disappointed about the performance of the Forestry Branch. 
If so, is  Mr Livingston's  response to be taken as a Government response. 
If not, will he indicate whether his response (a) will clarify the obligations of the Government, having regard to the Prime Minister's statement and (b) will be made by 30 June 1978. 
-The real merit of this legislation is that it will make the skills of particular Australians available overseas. The Australian Overseas Projects Corporation Bill deserves to be supported for that reason, if for no other. There would be nobody in this House who would disagree with the view that skill, knowledge, merit and ability ought to be boundless in their operation. This Corporation will enable those qualities to be boundless in their operation irrespective of national boundaries and in so doing will help the people themselves and help Australia. I will give an example of what I mean. The purpose of this Bill is to make the knowledge of engineers, of some economists and of some agriculturalists- and these have been the most successful people- available overseas. It will give them a chance to operate against international competitors. I invite honourable members to compare that with the export of other commodities which occurs in Australia. Normally we export our commodities. There are always vested interests in company commodities. For example, if coal is exported there is a vested interest on the part of coal operators in the export business. There is an overseas coal exporters' association operating. If iron is found and is exported there is a vested interest which exports and is directly related to something material. The same applies with respect to wool, nickel, copper and so on. 
This Bill is quite different in its application and infinitely more human. There are people with eminent skill available in this nation. There are engineers with pre-eminent skill. This Bill will ensure that they can operate in a world where their skills are desired on at least an equal basis with engineers and economists from competing nations. There is something intensely human about this and something of which Australia ought to be very proud. This is also a magnificent economic investment. Commodities are often found and exported as a result of the application of luck. That has certainly applied in respect of iron ore exports. There is no luck whatsoever in having these skills available for use throughout the world, lt will help the recipient countries and it will help individuals. Therefore, I must differ somewhat with the first sentence of the first paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  in which he referred to:   . . an Australian Overseas Projects Corporation to assist Australian private organisations to compete for overseas development projects so as to encourage the export of Australian goods and services. 
Overwhelmingly this Bill is to enable the export of skilled Australians. That is a world of difference. I am delighted above all that the engineering profession is to be the profession that will be helped as a result of the operation of this Corporation. I am delighted that the engineering profession, which is going through very difficult times in this nation, has already been successful in applying its skills overseas. If we refer to the survey of consultancy services conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics we see that there are some very interesting details and information available. The number of contracts earned overseas by Australian consultants in 1976-77 was three times that of the previous year. If we look at the net result of the consultancies which have found application overseas, there has been a net result from those activities in favour of Australia. For example, net earnings in 1975-76 were over $3m and in the subsequent year over $5m. I presume that they have increased far more since then. Having mentioned those figures, we ask ourselves: Who are the people and what are the professions which have been successful? This same data indicates that engineering and mining between them were responsible for 72 per cent of that success. Agricultural workers, forestry workers and economists were responsible for most of the rest. 
Why should I say that I am delighted that this legislation will be of particular use to the engineering profession? Of all the professions in Australia I believe that the most disadvantaged over a long period has been the engineering profession. It has been the most disadvantaged because it has been the casualty in every recession that has occurred in this nation. In every recession governments have cut expenditure, and I do not argue with that. However, the part of public expenditure that has been cut overwhelmingly has always been capital expenditure. The plain fact is that a casualty of that kind of cut in expenditure, ipso facto, must be and always has been the engineering profession. Nevertheless, the figures I have mentioned demonstrate that the engineering profession has skills which have earned money for this country overseas. 
I have mentioned the sum of $5m. It might be said that that is only a small amount of money and that it is not significant in the total. In the total it is immensely significant. Looking at Australia's record overseas we see that the current account deficit for this year will be something over $2.5 billion. That deficit will occur in spite of the fact that there have been positive balance of trade effects. However, the engineering profession and the other professions which will benefit as a result of the work of the Corporation have not been in deficit; they have been in positive balance. Even though the organisation of capital in Australia makes it very difficult for these professions to function in a stable manner they have earned resources for this country overseas. Therefore, I am delighted that this Corporation will be able to help such people, and help them in their private capacity too. The Opposition has made an enormous amount of the fact that the ultimate test of the value of this organisation is that it is to be attuned to the requirements of or is to make its organising ability available to private organisations. Insofar as it makes available to private organisations those organising skills and information we ought to regard this part of its activities as a positive boon. As I demonstrated a few moments ago, one of the great professions in Australia whose technology will be exported overseas has been vulnerable in the past because it has relied overwhelmingly on public capital. So, we ought to applaud the fact that the Corporation will be able to operate in the private market. 
The summary of my argument is this: The great problem this country faces is its current account deficit. In a sense it is the narrow part of the Venturi tube through which we will have to fit all the aspirations of the Australian economy and we must deal with this task. How much we can get past that constriction will determine the future development of this country and enable an expanded Australian economy to work on current account surpluses and not on current account deficits. The people who have already enabled part of that problem to be overcome will be assisted by this legislation. I am reminded that  Sir George  Turner, our first Treasurer, in presenting one of his first Budgets was moved to remark that it had always been found easiest when cutting public expenditure to cut capital works. It speaks for itself. This Bill will deal with some of the problems created when this is done. 
I turn now to the Bill itself but will refer to only three parts of it- clauses 6, 8 and 14. 1 think there was some misunderstanding about clause 6 in the debate last night. Clause 6 will enable information to be made available through the Corporation. The Corporation will be able to assist Australian private organisations to negotiate with overseas organisations. It will give positive assistance. It will assist Australia private organisations to carry out developments overseas. If private organisations are not required or do not want to do the work on their own or to participate in it, the Corporation can do that work as a principal agent. That is how I understand clause 6 ( 1) (d) of the Bill 
I deal now with clause 8 because one or two of its provisions worry me. I am sure that the Minister Assisting the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Garland)  can put some of my worries to rest. Clause 8 makes it quite clear that the Corporation is not to compete against Australian private organisations, nor should it compete against them. Sub-clause (2) makes it clear that when an Australian private organisation becomes aware that the Corporation is either negotiating with a view to the formation of an Australian consortium or is negotiating with an overseas government it can protest and, according to the nature of that protest, the responsible Minister may direct the Corporation to cease its operations or negotiations. I am concerned about the circumstances in which a private organisation might learn that negotiations are proceeding overseas or are being held between the Corporation and some overseas agent and then decides to protest. I hope that the rules of procedure which will be determined by the Minister will not allow the Corporation to be undercut or underwritten to this extent or made vulnerable to organisations that might decide, after events have been set in train, to try to get in on them in spite of the work that has been done previously by the Corporation. Rules of procedure will have to be set and in this respect they should be workable rules. 
I turn to the other provisions relating to protection of private organisations. In clause 14 it is quite clear that the Board shall keep the Minister informed of its decisions with respect to matters of policy. If matters of policy are not acceptable to the Minister he can either recommend that they be altered or overrule them. I am pleased to note that approval for specific projects to be undertaken by the Corporation or the Board will not be affected by this provision in the Bill. I am delighted with the application of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation Bill. It will serve a very valuable and useful purpose in several ways. Not only will it assist relations between Australia and the rest of the world but it also will assist some professions operating within this country to market their skills overseas and make them available to the rest of the world without disadvantage. Not the least effect of that will be that in so doing it will make a positive contribution to the solution of Australia's greatest and most persistent economic problem, that is, the current account deficit. 
I hope that the Government is not bluffing in regard to the proposed operation of this legislation. I presume that it is not and that it is quite sincere. There is an old French proverb in respect of those who bluff that at the moment I have difficulty in recalling. Nevertheless, I hope that the Government is not bluffing and that in operating the proposed Corporation in the way it ought to be operated it will be able to nudge the international market to the benefit of not only those people in Australia who can benefit from it but also the country. 
I shall not take too much of the time of the House in speaking on this Bill except to make one or two points in relation to it. The Bill is a mechanical one but it raises one or two issues that deserve to be raised. Basically, it enables defence expenditure, which is already included within the Consolidated Revenue Fund, to be transferred to the Loan Fund. The second part of the Bill enables loans to be raised in order to meet the deficit. The Bill indicates that for that purpose the loan shall be of an order not exceeding $2,000m. There are certain valid reasons why expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund cannot be engineered in a Fund which is showing a deficit. Those reasons are not only commonsense but also legal. The debate that is taking place over this Bill will in no way parallel the enormous debate that occurred over similar Bills in 1975. On that occasion the transfers were quite enormous. They gave rise to a very wide-ranging, general economic debate. On this occasion the Bills both in absolute size and proportionately are nothing compared with those introduced in 1975. 
There are good reasons why this process- it is an engineering process- is to be done rather early in the Budget debate. They are concerned with the rate of expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. There are one or two points which I would like to raise in relation to these transfers. I hope that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  who is at the table, assisted by his advisers will be able to help me with them. The point is that the expenditure last year from the Consolidated Revenue Fund was $24,800m. The expenditure this year is proposed to be about $27,700m. That is a substantial increase. The amount which is chargeable to the Loan Fund- that is, defence expenditure- this year is $ 1,903m, the amount which was so chargeable and transferable last year was $ 1,359m. So that amount has also been increased. Yet when we look in Budget Paper No. 4, at table 9 headed Estimated Expenditure from Loan Fund for the year ending 30 June 1979, we see that there is to be a decrease in the expenditure from $4, 100m to $3,700m. So the expenditure is proceeding in the opposite direction. That gives rise to one or two questions which puzzle me in relation to this Bill. 
The defence expenditure transfer- if I can use that term- from the Consolidated Revenue Fund is to be increased this year, yet the proposed deficit of the Government, both overall and domestic, will enjoy a substantial decrease. The CRF deficit is going up; the expenditure loan fund funding has to go down. We in politics all appreciate that these are measures appropriate each year. They relate to the rate of expenditure of funds. They demonstrate overall that nothing is as permanent in politics as a temporary expedient. It has to occur each calendar year and each financial year. The simple question I put to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, and to which I hope he can give me an answer, is this: Why is the transfer to the Loan Fund larger than last year despite the smaller deficit? It deserves an answer. It has puzzled me. I have looked through Budget Paper No. 4.I know that the Minister will be writing the question down now and if he cannot respond spontaneously I am sure he will respond a little later after consulting advisers and others. I say seriously that we would respect and expect a response to this question in the Parliament. 
This debate on this Bill will enable another matter to be considered seriously and that is the nature of the deficit in Commonwealth accounts. The deficit, both overall and domestic, is clearly the crunch point in Budget flexibility. It has a great deal to do with the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The question which we all want answered is simply this: Can the deficit be funded without inflation? Can it be funded in a non-inflationary way? That is the crucial question of politics. Unless that is answered more refined measures such as public sector borrowing requirements and so on pale into insignificance. Can it be funded in a non-inflationary way? I must say that so far some of those who have proposed increased deficits have not turned their minds precisely to the funding of proposals for increased deficits in a non-inflationary way. 
I turn now to the loan, the result of which was announced yesterday. A great deal of pleasure has been taken from the fact that the loan attracted over $700m. Nobody in this House, certainly not the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  would be disappointed with that fact. We are all delighted. But I hope that the significance of that result is not lost. Its significance is that the inflationary expectations in the Australian community are clearly receding. It would be impossible to get a domestic loan contribution of that size were inflationary expectations still with us. There are two facts that enable flexibility to be pursued in loan raising and funding the Budget deficit which were not present before. I believe that indexed bonds would provide the way to a non-inflationary expanded deficit and would enable that deficit to be used for productive purposes within the Australian community. The most productive purposes in terms of the impact multipliers are certain capital works with non-importable goods, as we all know. So there are two points. 
The Australian Labor Party has never considered non-inflationary funding of the deficit. It is easy to say that a deficit needs to be expanded but one's mind has to be turned to the way in which it is to be paid for in the year in which it is raised. No member of the Opposition has considered that proposition, and it is important to consider it. There are two reasons why that flexibility can be pursued in today's circumstances. One is that securities which will mature between now and 30 June next year are a very small proportion of total Commonwealth securities and inscribed stock coming to maturity. I shall read to the House the figures in this regard for the last seven years; in other words, the short term pressure upon the redemption of securities. The figures show the proportion of the securities which come to maturity in the financial year with which that year's Budget deals. In 1972-73, 7.1 per cent of total securities matured; in 1973-74 the figure was 9.8 per cent; in 1974-75 it was 8.4 per cent and to 30 June 1976- that was in the context of the Labor Budget in 1975- the figure was 12.6 per cent. No wonder there was monetary pressure then. In 1976-77 the figure was 10 per cent; in 1977-78 it will be 1 1.2 percent and in 1978-79 it will be 10.3 per cent. Clearly the figures will decrease in the years subsequent to 30 June next year. So the short term redemption pressures upon loan raisings in Australia are decreasing. That is the first characteristic which enables a government to achieve some flexibility in loan raising. 
The second one is the fact that inflation is coming down determinedly- perhaps because of some draconian measures. I suggest that that surety, that assurance of the decline in inflation, can be taken advantage of in respect to the noninflationary funding of a productive Budget deficit. Both those situations ought to be taken advantage of and the easiest way in which to do it is by issuing indexed bonds; that is bonds which have a positive interest rate of 2 to 3 per cent more than the rate of inflation. Tax indexation made government honest with the taxpayer. When the present Opposition was in government it was opposed to tax indexation. Indexed bonds would cause governments to be honest with investors. 
-I hesitate to have to remind the Opposition that in September or October 1975 members of their party pursued some quite draconian measures and leaked out of one of its committee meetings all the reasons why tax indexation could not and should not be adopted in Australia. At that time Labor was in government in Australia. When it had authority tax indexation was anathema to the Labor Party and its members ought to be reminded of that fact. I suggest that indexed bonds with positive interest rates in excess of the rate of inflation while inflation is coming down could be used to attract funds to the longer term end of the market. I hope that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, in his response to this debate or perhaps later- I know he is taking a lot of interest- will deal with these matters in detail. It is not appropriate merely to say that indexed bonds mean that we become a hostage to inflation. The situation is precisely the opposite. Indexed bonds enable a determinedly antiinflationary fight to be used for the benefit of all Australians. 
Professor Perkins made it clear that raising loan funds for a government need be no more inflationary than raising capital funds for private enterprise. That needs to be stated. With the certain rise in the savings ratio which has been perceived recently there is room to do something in this area. I believe that the opportunity should be grasped and grasped now. In 1911 Lord Keynes- I cannot quote him directly so I shall paraphrase what he said- writing to one of his friends, I think it was Duncan Grant, stated: 'I have just met some politicians and they are an unbelievably stupid lot.' I hope that in the response to these suggestions the Department of Finance or the Department of the Treasury, or those who take advice from those departments, will treat them as positive ones and not in the way in which perhaps Lord Keynes in his earlier days might have been wont to treat them. 
I welcome the inquiry. If I correctly interpret the mood of the House so far it also welcomes the inquiry. The details of the inquiry are clearly set out in paragraph ( 1 ) of the resolution and it is to that paragraph to which we are speaking at this very moment. I take as my point of departure the fact that I propose to move an amendment to clause ( 1 ) which reads in part: 
1 ) A Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon- 
the provisions, and the operation, of the  Family Law Act  1  975,  with particular regard to : 
the ground of divorce and whether there should be other grounds; 
I move: 
In sub-clause (a), after paragraph (i) insert the following paragraph: (ia) its effects on the nature of marriage and the family; '. 
The purpose of this amendment is to allow the proposed joint committee to investigate the provisions and the operations of the Family Law Act 1975 with particular regard to the ground of divorce and whether there should be other grounds and its effect on the nature of marriage and the family. 
I have been fascinated by the argument that the inquiry should be limited and that it should not look in any way at the fact that this law is concerned with the family or marriage. If the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  were to look at the Act and the principles on which the Act operate he would see them crystal clear in section 43. What I am saying is that this proposed inquiry should look at the principles enshrined in the legislation. Section 43 of the Act reads: 
The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act or any other Act, and any other court exercising jurisdiction under this Act shall, in the exercise of that jurisdiction, have regard to- 
There are four features set out in that section and I will recite them. They read: 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage- 
The word 'marriage' appears in the Act. So I do not know why the honourable member for Melbourne Ports should be frightened about the committee looking at the nature of marriage. This Act seeks to define the principles according to which the Family Court is going to make its determinations. Section 43 reads: 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
What the honourable member is saying is that we ought to have an investigation into the Act called the Family Law Act but we ought not to look at what the Family Law Act says about the institution of either the family or marriage. 
-Perhaps I can find a way to change my amendment. 
-I would be delighted to substitute the word 'institution' for the word nature ', if that is acceptable. 
-I seek the leave of the House to alter my amendment so that the amendment would then read:  (ia) its effects on the institution of marriage and the family. 
Leave granted. 
-I do not want to spend too much time going through section 43 of the Act, but I think it is quite important to do so. Section 43 (b) refers to the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society. It goes on to refer to the need to protect the rights of children and to promote their welfare. It also refers to the means available for assisting parties to a marriage to consider reconciliation or the improvement of their relationship to each other and to the children of the marriage. All I am saying, in the simplest of terms, is that we should look at the operations of the Act in relation to the principles which govern its effects and the way in which it operates. I take as my point of departure a statement made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on 17 August 1978 in relation to this proposed committee. I refer to paragraphs (6) and (7) of it. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said: 
The divorce provisions are the last area needing consideration. Urgent action is needed elsewhere. 
He goes on, and this is important, to say: 
The terms of reference are, like the Family Law Act itself, excessively legalistic. The inquiry should aim to reduce legalism as much as possible and also to reduce legal costs. 
I want to take some of the legalism out of the present provisions in respect of the terms of reference of the inquiry. I thought that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition- this is not going to help him, of course- made a very balanced and valuable statement in that respect. I suggest to the House that this inquiry is in its own way quite incredibly important. Clause (1) of the resolution covers a variety of matters. The three previous speakers have dealt with them. Paragraphs (iii) to (vh) of clause 1 (a) deal respectively with the technical features of the inquiry, the organisation of the Family Court, the conduct of proceedings by the various courts, whether the proceedings in the Family Court should be more open to the public, the services provided by counsellors and the cost of proceedings under the Act. All of those matters are deserving of investigation and should be investigated. Clause 1 (b) refers to any other matters under the Act referred by the Attorney-General. 
If the Senate- that august body- or the Attorney-General were to say that we were going to consider the effects on the institution of marriage and so on, I would have liked this House to express its own view on that because if this House expressed the view that it did not want this kind of analysis of the operations of the Act the Attorney-General could hardly make a reference to the committee in opposition to the expressed wish of this House. So, under those circumstances, I suggest that the way in which the House votes upon this amendment is very important indeed. Any Attorney-General- even an Attorney-General in the Senate- would be constrained in opposing the wishes of this House. After all, this is the House in which the government is formed. This is the House which has the responsibility for the financial and economic running of this country. This is the House in which the Prime Minister sits. This is the House in which the Cabinet overwhelmingly operates. So I suggest that it is in this House that the analysis ought to be made and that the amendment ought to be considered. 
We know that the family in society is changing, and it is changing at a very rapid rate. It is changing for a variety of external and internal reasons. It is changing in relation to the distribution of income. It is changing in relation to the availability of work for the partners in a marriage. It is changing because society itself is altering its attitude towards the family and marriage. We need to look at the operation of the Family Law Act and to see what relation that Act has to the changes that ostensibly and clearly are occurring in society. But we also say that many of those changes are occurring because of external reasons and because of people's attitudes. Some of us may be followers of Lysenko and suggest that all attitudes are determined by considerations outside our kin, that our environment governs us altogether. I just do not believe it, even though it is important. 
The nature of marriage has changed also for some very basic internal reasons. Mental attitudes have altered very greatly. Commitments in respect of marriage have altered. Commitments in respect of the family have altered. As members of this House we have to deal with broken marriages, separated couples, deserted wives, single mothers and single fathers. We know that attitudes have changed in relation to these matters. We all accept the fact that they have changed. There is no attempt to turn any clock back; it is an attempt to open our minds to what in fact is occurring in society. That is what we want to do. Some of these changes are good, some are bad; some are worthwhile, some are not worthwhile. It is our ultimate duty to look at this Act and to see the ways in which it is operating and to look at its effects on the happiness and the goodwill of the people in the community and of the community itself, both for the present and for the future. 
I put forward the amendment I have just moved, conscious of the fact that by doing so everything will not be left to the decision of the Attorney-General. I do not suggest that this House ought to wait merely upon a judgment of the Attorney-General as to what other terms of reference the committee ought to have or ought to accept. There will be matters which come within the purview of the committee and which it cannot solve. Of course, there will be matters which it cannot solve. It will have insufficient wisdom to solve them. It may have insufficient wisdom even to begin investigation of them. But I do not want the committee to be confined, to be cramped and to be forced to say: 'No, that is not within the narrow legalistic definitions. We are going to keep ourselves away from that kind of investigation'. I want the committee to be untrammelled in its investigations and to be able to move quite widely in its considerations. I hope that the House will give the amendment I have moved appropriate support. 
-I give notice that at the next meeting I shall move: 
That this House notes: 
That the current Waterside Workers Federation strike had its origin in the strike by electricians and mechanical engineering fitters at Seatainer Terminals and Liner Services Ltd Melbourne. 
Notes that the average annual earnings for the men concerned were $25,000 for a 35.8 hour week for rotating shifts last year. 
Observes further that with overtime earnings rose to the order of $28,000 per year. 
And while vigorously supporting the right to strike asserts that on any principle of comparative or social justice a strike for either extra emoluments or special annual leave in addition to the current average 5 weeks annual leave is unjustified and unfair to the bulk of the Australian work force. 
-When the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  spoke earlier and launched into one of his familiar tirades about international monopoly capitalism, I could not help reflecting on the kind of trap which he laid for himself. As soon as he made the case that Australia was in the forces of international monopoly capitalism and that what was happening here was totally inevitable, he might have ceased uttering more words or giving the proposition here. One needs to hear it for only one second before one realises that there is nothing in that proposition as to what Australia can do that can have any effect whatsoever on its people. The honourable member ought to change the language and some of the reasoning behind the propositions that he thinks are appropriate for presenting to some of the meetings that he attends, and for which he gets cheers, when he comes into this place because they are not appropriate here. 
Three and a half years ago a very famous professor, Professor Sidney Weintraub, came to Australia. He had a world-wide reputation. He had spent many years of his life characterising the various economies of the world into their different types. They included growth economies, stationary state economies, growth economies with inflation at the same time, stationary state economies with inflation or where prices were going down. He described slumpflation. 
-I have only a few minutes for my speech so I cannot take too much time to deal with interjections, if the honourable member does not mind. The professor said that there were economies with negative growth and price rises. He described stagflation, recession and depression. He listed nine types of economies. They characterised every country in the world, but Australia beat him. He had never been anywhere else where there was what is known as negflation. We had negative growth, negative productivity and high and rising rates of inflation. So Professor Sidney Weintraub came here and Australia beat him. At that time the Labor Government was in control. I hope it will never be forgotten. 
Quite clearly we are aiming for two objectives. We want to have an economy with full employment without inflation. That is our aim, but let it be quite clear that on the path to achieving it certain methods are totally unacceptable. The Australian community would not accept in the achievement of that aim the proposition of a higher rate of taxation. I have great respect for a number of members of the Opposition who speak on economic matters. So I was distressed and disturbed when, for example, the shadow Treasurer outlined what he thinks is the path to Australia having high rates of growth without inflation but with full employment. He spoke at the Labor economists' conference held in Brisbane in June this year, which was sponsored by the Queensland branch of the Australian Labor Party. It was a very valuable conference too. Some of my friends in the Opposition were there. I was distressed when the shadow Treasurer gave his solution to Australia's economic problems at that conference. He said:. 
If Labor does not gain office next election then by 1983, when we could next hope to gain office, we would face a mammoth task in rebuilding the public sector- and maybe an equally mammoth task in convincing the electorate that it should pay a higher level of tax to enable us to do so. 
That is the proposition of the shadow Treasurer. In other words, he proposed not a random, onceayear tax rise but a permanently higher rate of taxation as part of the economic program. 
-It is in his speech; he actually said it; it has never been denied. I was actually distressed that he should say it because I do not believe that that is appropriate or ought to be adopted. Whatever one says, it will not be acceptable to the Australian community that, in order to get on to an equilibrium path of development without inflation and with full employment, there should be policies which will promote either higher inflation or permanently higher rates of taxation. They are not acceptable and, whatever is to be put forward to the Australian people, that proposition will be neglected. I do not deny for one moment that the Government has been looking at the influence of rates of change in unemployment and that these have an effect on the rate of inflation. They certainly do and they certainly have. But what may be missed at the moment is that, as a result of the last loan which was issued by the Commonwealth Government, inflationary expectations in Australia have declined very dramatically and very rapidly. I believe that an opportunity exists because those expectations have clearly declined. 
I suggest that long sight may be an eye affliction for many Australians but there is some evidence right before our noses which can be grasped and turned to the benefit of the Australian community. In this process various things are important- the rates of taxation, the size of the deficit, the non-inflationary funding of that deficit, as well as wages policy. It is nonsense to say that wages policy has no effect whatsoever. Not by any means does it have the total effect, but it has a significant effect. Unless wages policy and salaries policy are part of the economic program one will not have the kind of development which we want. Let me illustrate what I mean. Unless the benefits of particularly high rates of production and productivity within the Australian economy are distributed over the whole we will never get full employment again. 
I become distressed when an orderly wages program is departed from. Let me give two illustrations of what I mean because this is important. First I refer to the Utah strike which was settled some weeks ago. It is important that the House notes that some of the bonus benefits gained by the men as a result of the strike cut in at between 70 per cent and 80 per cent of normal levels of production. Unless the benefits of very high productivity which that industry is able to pursue are spread over the whole community full employment opportunities will not operate again around Australia. Secondly, I am distressed, as I indicated earlier today, by events surrounding the current strike involving the Waterside Workers Federation and the two Melbourne firms Seatainer Terminals Ltd and Liner Services Pty Ltd. The electricians and maintenance engineers employed by these firms want an increase in pay. They also want their annual average leave increased from five weeks to six weeks. The salaries received by all these men are in excess of $20,000 per person per year. 
These are the facts of life. Unless we face that fact we will never get full employment again. I am not going to say, as others have said and as was first said by a Labor Party Treasurer, that one man's wage rise is another man's job. That is too simple and too trite a statement. But the benefits of production and productivity have to be spread over the whole community. Unless this is done we will not have full employment. What I have just said simply means this: Whilst inflationary expectations have decreased very significantly in Australia, full employment will be obtainable by co-operation at various levels. Some responsibility has to be acknowledged in board rooms. Some responsibility has to be exercised as well at the level of the disputes committees of the various trades and labour councils. Some responsibility has to be exercised also in terms of the pattern of expenditure that occurs in Australia as between expenditures by government on current goods and services and expenditure on capital works. These two factors are important. Let me illustrate what I mean. The simple fact is that there needs to be a turn-around in the demand for labour. It is very doubtful that we will ever get down to a one per cent level of unemployment in the work force, as was the position when the McMahon Government went out of power in 
December 1972. But there has to be a turnaround in the demand for labour and that turnaround, no matter how tenuous, cannot occur without high rates of growth of the Australian economy. That is the great confidence that is needed in the Australian community. Australia led the world in this respect until the 1973-74-75 period. 
As Professor Gruen has so well pointed out, up until that period a 5 per cent change in capacity utilisation of the Australian economy caused a 0.3 per cent increase in unemployment. Turned around, what that statement means is this: Reasonable rates of growth were reflected very quickly in increased demand for labour. Australia, with West Germany, was among the leading countries in this respect. This relationship applied until the period I have just mentioned. The honourable member for Reid, who I see has a sagacious look, would know that. Then we departed from our long term experience. As a result the rates of growth of the economy and their reflection in demand for labour are much more tenuous, much more fragile and much more difficult to engineer than has been the case in the past. This is just the fact of life. That relationship has altered and we ought to alter it back. I believe that a great way in which to alter it back is in terms of capital works. If there is to be an increased deficit in Australia that deficit has to be funded in a non-inflationary way. 
I would like to spend time to deal with the interjections that are being made but the time available in which to speak on this year's Budget is shorter than it ought to be. I believe the opportunity now exists in Australia to look at what are known as indexed bonds. If indexed bonds were floated and the deficit made of an appropriate size so that it could be funded by indexed bonds there would be no increase in the money supply, there would be a non-inflationary funding of the deficit and the money could be used for valuable and specific capital works. We know that money spent on capital works has a 30 per cent greater effect in terms of developing national income, and hence a demand for labour, than has money spent on current goods and services and cash benefits. 
The last loan illustrates two points that need to be borne in mind. This loan, which raised over $700m, was a reflection of the fact that inflationary expectations have receded remarkably in this country. Compared with a year earlier an extra 14 per cent of those loan contributions came from the non-bank sector- they did not come from the captive market- and the contribution to the bonds of 5-year, 10-year and 18-year maturities was secured by offering no hike in the interest rate. It was gained by applying the same interest rate. What that quite clearly means is that insofar as policies are related to inflationary expectations, those expectations are receding very quickly and I believe the opportunity is there for an indexed bonds- funded deficit to be used for precise clear capital works in Australia. 
The mistake made by the Opposition in terms of the deficit is this: It pays no attention- it has never paid attention- to the way in which the deficit is to be funded. One is left with the impression that the Opposition's policy is to have a larger deficit but to pay no attention to the way in which it is to be funded. It does not worry about non-inflationary funding of the deficit. The Opposition's policy with respect to wages is extremely uncertain. I am left with the impression that a permanently higher rate of tax is the Opposition's ultimate solution to the problems of the Australian economy. 
-Such policies are not acceptable and they will not be acceptable to the Australian community. I am talking about the Labor Party's long term policy in respect of a permanently higher rate of taxation. This is the policy which has been projected into the future. I might say, standing on the shoulders of those who were in the Labor Government three or four years ago, that it was the policy which Labor actually put into operation. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Health. I refer to the proposed arrangements concerning the $1.52 charge to be made to process claims from health fund non members. I ask the Minister whether he will undertake to have his decision guided by at least three considerations. First, in his discussions will he ensure an equal flexibility in relation to the effective price on behalf of both tenderers, that is, the private funds and Medibank, and not assume the $1.52 charge to be merely a target to be aimed at by one side; secondly, will he treat the matter in a non-cartel manner, that is, maintain flexibility as to the arrangements in the various States, since there are different traditions in relation to public and private health administration among the States; and, thirdly, will he ensure that the price agreed to is realistic and sustainable having regard to predictable cost rises and not one arrived at for a moment and then used as a platform for future rises? 
I refer to Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) in relation to the expenses of the Parliament that are attributable to the committees of the Parliament. I suggest that there is a mistaken sense of parsimony in relation to the funds that have been allocated for the committees of this Parliament, and I wish to illustrate that with a number of details. The 1977- 78 appropriation for the standing and select committees of the House of Representativesthat is the Expenditure Committee, the Privileges Committee, all the other committees of this House- was $88,600, and the actual expenditure was $5 1 ,000-plus. The appropriation for the year 1978- 79 is $5 1,000. In other words, in real terms there has been a reduction of some 40 per cent over last year's appropriation of $88,600. I suggest that such treatment of the committees of this House deserves to be examined, and I compare it with the appropriation for the Joint Committee of Public Accounts merely to indicate that an across-the-board proposition has not been made. The appropriation for the Public Accounts Committee in 1977-78 was $106,000-plus, expenditure was $106,000-plus, and the appropriation for this year is $1 10,000. In terms of administrative expenditure, the appropriation last year was $36,000 and actual expenditure was $25,000. That would seem to be quite unrealistic due to the fact that there was an election during the course of the 1977-78 year, and the amount appropriated for the administrative expenses this year is $58,000. So account has been taken elsewhere of the fact that the 1977-78 financial year was incomplete in respect of parliamentary committees. I hope the Committee will consider very carefully the fact that there has obviously been an incomplete analysis in the presentation of the allocations for the committees of this House. 
May I illustrate the way in which I suggest that a sense of economy in fact can be uneconomic parsimony. Last year the Expenditure Committee spent very little money. It made two reports to the Parliament, one in respect of a Northern Territory forestry program in which it suggested that up to $30m had been spent incorrectly on poorly worked out programs for the Northern Territory. I ask the Committee to consider both sides of that. The Expenditure Committee suggested that up to $30m had been spent incorrectly over the years, although I am not saying it was spent fraudulently. How is that weighed in the balance against a net reduction of $20,000 or $30,000 or $40,000? There has to be a sense of balance between the two. A report on the defence service homes scheme was presented to this Parliament by a committee of the Parliament during the 1977-78 financial year. The work was done during that financial year and the report showed the Government how the same number of applicants for war service homes could be assisted as had previously been the case but with a saving of $25m to $30m. I hope the Government will adopt the suggestion. Alternatively, almost twice the number of applicants could receive assistance for the same amount of money. 
In considering these appropriations, I ask the Committee to look at the sums of money involved. Is there a mistaken sense of parsimony? I hope the Committee will examine the appropriations in an economic sense but also in a wider sense. If the Parliament is to have relevance it has to be able to make its own decisions. The facts of life are that with the growth of political organisations in Australia and the greater power and strength of those organisations, we know that of their very nature they exert authority in this Parliament. People vote in this Parliament, having had their ideas formed within their political organisations. They do not surrender their consciences, of course, but the power of the organisations is there. For example, it is a far greater power than existed in relation to voting when the Parliament commenced in 1901. We know that there is great power in the Executive with respect to the Parliament. In a Westminister-type government there will always be great power in the Executive. But I ask this question: To what extent should the expenditures of committees of this Parliament, appointed by resolution of this Parliament, have to be filtered through an Executive or through other processes? I am not proposing a sort of anarchy, but I put that question, and it is a very important one. The money spent by committees has to have relevance, of course. There has to be value for money and the committees have to do the work, but I ask the Committee to consider whether the unwarranted tightening in this area- the reduction in the appropriation is one of the largest reductions in the Bill- is appropriate or valid. 
The proposition deserves to be considered not only in relation to the nature of the Parliament but also in relation to the nature of its economic considerations. Should the Department of the Parliament, if I can refer to it in this way, be enabled to make its own bid in respect to expenditures of the Parliament, having regard to economic realities? We have a Speaker, and a President in another place, who are aware of economic realities. Nobody is suggesting that they are going to spend money in a hamfisted or stupid way. Ought not a situation develop whereby the Parliament itself should be able to make bids in respect of its committees, which do most valuable work, and be able to pass some of its bids instead of having them of necessity filtered through the Executive? 
A wonderful example of an investigation that could be made by a parliamentary committee was the situation in South Australia whereby the Bond Corporation took a controlling interest in Santos Ltd for $36m. The circumstances in which that controlling interest was taken deserved to be examined. The articles of association between Burmah Oil and Santos allowed the former to have up to 3716 per cent of the shares in Santos on certain conditions, namely, that the shares be sold only to a related company and that the board of Santos be informed. Articles 38l to 38P illustrate that point. The shares were sold to another corporation, Burmah Oil Corporation of Australia Ltd, which acquired the extra shares to bring its holding up to  37 Vi  per cent, and immediately sold them to the consortium of companies with which  Mr Bond  has an association. Three important questions arose from this. I merely recite these questions to make the point that this is the kind of material which is deserving of investigation by the Parliament. Were the articles of association breached? With swift footwork was Burmah able to frustrate the 1965 agreement in respect of Santos and the spirit of the Stock Exchange rules on change in the control of companies as well as Section  26AAA  of the Income Tax Assessment Act which provides for the taxation of profits from the resale of assets within 12 months of purchase? That refers, of course, to the last 2.7 million shares which were sold at a substantial profit immediately the scrip was hand delivered in Melbourne. This happened in July and August 1978. There were three questions here involving national development, the Commissioner for Taxation and the rights of shareholders of companies to know when a major interest buys into those companies. In a very shortened form that is the kind of circumstance which it is appropriate for a parliamentary committee to examine. In examining it, millions of dollars can be involved and the nature of controlling interests can be involved; and parliamentary committees are unable to do it. 
-I direct to the Minister for Transport a question relating to Brisbane Airport. When will the co-ordinated discussions begin with the Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council on drawing up a detailed time-table for the Brisbane Airport project? Is the Government still committed to completion of the project by early 1986? What matters have to be finalised with the Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council before actual work can commence? Can the Minister indicate whether any environmental study has been made on Brisbane Airport and, if so, whether this will be made public? 
-by leave- I move: 
Omit 'five ', substitute 'six '. 
Omit 'three' (first occurring), substitute 'four'. 
As honourable members will see from the amendment, clause 2 would then read: 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
Does the Government remain committed to the promise that Stage I of the Brisbane Airport Plan, including the new runway, will be completed and in operation by early 1 986. 
-On last Thursday evening a news release was transmitted by the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. to its employees at Geebung in Queensland. I want to read out two sentences of that statement. They state: 
The Olympic Tyre and Rubber Company will be phased out with a view to ending all operations at that site by the end of December, 1978. All Olympic employees at Geebung have been advised of this today. 
In the third last paragraph the statement said that production was to be rationalised if that is the word to use and specialised at the company's Somerton and Footscray plants, with steel tyre production being undertaken at Somerton and radial textile passenger truck and tractor tyre production being undertaken at Footscray in Melbourne. 
It is not my intention this afternoon to lacerate the Olympic company or to lacerate in any particular way Firestone Australia Pty Ltd, which did something similar in another part of Brisbane 3 days later. I wish merely to indicate quite clearly that, in accordance with that statement, 380 men were sacked. They are out of work. Many of them had been working in that firm for 27 years and had taken only a few weeks sick leave in that time. They had been first class employees and they are first class men. Many of them have approached me. They are aged 52, 53 or 54 years. They say: 'I am unemployable now. What am I going to do?' There is nothing as heart-rending as being confronted with such a situation. The action of the Olympic company owes much more to the rationalisation within the tyre industry than to positive, calculated illwill. 
What are the circumstances? This has not occurred because of a lack of demand within the tyre industry or a lack of competency on the part of the company's Queensland staff. The Queensland company and its men say that they can make the tyres and have made them. Indeed, their tyres are made as efficiently and as well as any tyres made elsewhere in Australia. I refer to evidence which was given to the Industries Assistance Commission inquiry in October 1975 by  Mr Beaurepaire,  the Managing Director of the Olympic company, and  Mr Watson,  a senior official of that company. They said: 
With the lowering of the migrant intake and the general level of employment in the areas where our plants are located, and because of the problems associated with shiftwork, et cetera, the availability of suitable labour is extremely difficult, especially in Victoria. The position in Queensland is somewhat better but over the two areas it is still difficult to maintain labour despite the reputed high level of unemployment. 
This statement was made at the end of 1975; but in the muted words which businessmen use, it was really saying that the company's Queensland work force was a very good work force, was capable and efficient, and was better than its work force in Victoria. This was said quite clearly and it needs to be appreciated. 
Demand in the tyre industry is not down; it is rising now and certainly has risen since the days of the Labor Government when demand plunged quite disastrously. I am reinforced in this view by the latest data on new motor vehicle registrations, which show that the demand for supplying original equipment to motor cars has risen enormously. Let me cite two figures that are important. During the first half of August this year, there were 1,983 new motor vehicle registrations per working day for the six States of Australia. During the first week of September the figure rose to 2,380 vehicles. Although in that figure there is an estimate of the South Australian position, these figures show quite clearly that the demand for motor cars has risen by about 20 per cent. Therefore, demand for new tyres is not going to be down. The IAC report on the motor tyre industry illustrated that it was in the original equipment area that demand had dropped during those disastrous times of two or three years ago, and this is the precise area which is now enabled to pick up. Therefore, we cannot say that the men are being sacked and that the Olympic company is closing down its Queensland operations completely merely because the motor car industry lacks demand, as it certainly does not. Anyone who knows what happened to sales tax in the last Budget must realise this quite perceptibly. 
There have been industry problems and they need a quite clear response from Government. What has happened in this instance is what has happened in every downturn in Australian economic history. In the four downturns since the end of World War II the outlying, unprotected States and the people who work in those States have become vulnerable because of the way public finance  is  organised during a recession. I do not want to indicate to the House that this is the crack of doom. A popgun is a popgun and nothing else; it is not the crack of doom. I want to indicate that there is another way in which recessions in Australia should be handled. An enormous amount has been done over recent years to assist the motor tyre industry. There has been a change in the nature of demand and the demand for steel belted radials has increased. The honourable member who will follow me in the debate knows of the enormous advantage that this increased demand has been to those who work in this industry in Adelaide. This industry is becoming almost totally centralised in Melbourne, with only small off-shoots in Sydney and Adelaide. There is far greater distress and unemployment in my State because of it. 
Let us look at the protection given to the industry. What has it amounted to? Let me refer to it very briefly. In 1975, due to the depressed demand, a Temporary Assistance Authority report raised the amount of protection given to the industry- 15 per cent ad valorem- by adding a 10 per cent temporary duty protection. In June 1977 an IAC report recommended, and the recommendation was adopted at that stage, that the protection for the industry be left at 25 per cent, to apply for three years. Later, in September 1977, a Temporary Assistance Authority report recommended 40 per cent protection for the industry, to apply for 15 months. 
What does this mean in real terms? It means that today the industry is receiving the equivalent of $25m a year in order to remain viable. That is the net subsidy equivalent of the protection. It ought to be remembered that 60 per cent of the total, or $ 15m, goes to the industry in only one State- Victoria- and that after the closure of" the Geebung factory 62 or 63 per cent of this money will go to Victoria. This means that for every person who works in the industry assistance of $3,300 a year will be given in order to keep that person employed. I do not argue with that and I am not putting forward a free trade argument. 
However, when a recession occurs or there is a downturn in the economy and as a result expenditure is cut, that cut is made across the board; but the benefits of industry protection necessarily restrict themselves to certain parts of Australia. This results in my State receiving almost no benefit at all. I suggest that both these effects of Commonwealth intervention need to be taken into account. Industry protection should not amount to sweetmeats handed under the table while public expenditures are argued about at Premiers conferences, Budget discussions, Loan Council meetings and so on. Both should be considered in terms of their allocation between States, and that they are not is the overwhelming reason that my State and Western Australia have always suffered very seriously during a recession. 
The transfer effects that occur due to trade protection policies go from those States that receive less than average protection to those States that receive more than average protection. Stated most explicitly, it is the States which are able to develop exports which ensure that industry protection can be paid to Victoria, and, effectively, to South Australia. New South Wales has about a line ball position. Therefore what is distressing is that those States which earn above their proportion of exports remain the vulnerable ones. For example, last year the exports from 
Queensland and Western Australia were worth over $ 1,600 per person. The exports from the rest of Australia were worth something of the nature of $600 per person. I ask this House merely to look at the justice of that kind of transfer when those who do the subsidising are vulnerable, have a lower standard of living and are subject to unemployment to which the subsidised are not subject. 
From the beginning of this financial year protection policies- tariff and quota- have been awarded and confirmed in respect of about nine industries. They are worth up to $ 1,000m. Victoria- good luck to it- is the principal beneficiary of every one of those policies except one, the one in respect of the refrigerator industry. I do not complain about that. The transfers which enable the economy of one State and therefore employment in one State to be kept up ought to be registered and ought not to go without being known. I believe that the Olympic tragedy illustrates the enormous gap and great defect in Australian federalism. An amount of $4,500m a year is redistributed in this way. We want to have that redistribution counted as other forms of redistribution count. The Olympic experience is a tragic example of what has happened in every Australian recession. There is not one example ever of a Victorian plant being closed in a recession so that activities can be rationalised into Queensland or Western Australia. 
I suggest to this House that for the sake of equity and fairness three policies ought to be considered at this stage: Firstly, demand should be stimulated selectively, especially where there is surplus capacity, and funded through a noninflationary deficit. That means through capital works in those parts of Australia which suffer due to the way in which a recession is managed. Secondly, the $4,500m worth of industry protection policies must be discussed at Premiers Conferences and taken into account and not regarded merely as sweetmeats offered under another guise. The third point that I put forward is that the distribution of the Commonwealth's capital works programs should then be reallocated having regard to the benefits of industry protection. They ought not to be considered separately from one another. Industry protection worth $4,500m a year cannot be granted and subsumed away, unseen. In terms of the tyre industry it is worth $2 5 m a year. We cannot ignore it or put it under the table and then argue about the distribution of some $ 1,500m to $2,000m worth of capital works programs in Australia. There are two layers to that cake and both layers ought to be considered together. 
I come back to where I began. The facts are that in every recession in Australia public expenditure has been cut across the board. One could argue with the policy, but I do not take issue on that. In every recession in Australia from the time of Scullin onwards industry protection has increased. I do not argue with that, but the two hitherto have been considered separately. They ought to be considered together so that those parts of Australia which earn export income, which operate at less than average levels of tariff and quota protection- Queensland and Western Australia- shall not be the wood and water joeys of this country. Under the present position they have been made the wood and water joeyssufficient to earn export income for Australia but not sufficient to be able to share equally and fairly during a recession without having to carry the dray while others are able to ride in it. 
-Never before have I spoken in this House on South Africa or southern Africa; but today is a very important day in respect of that part of the world for one overriding reason: Today the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations is to suggest to the Security Council the nature of the United Nations peacekeeping or supervisory force which is to go into the former territory of South West Africa, the territory of Namibia. That peacekeeping force has been suggested after his delegate,  Mr Athissari,  toured Namibia for a fortnight- 15 or 16 days- and it is designed to supervise elections and the transition of that nation to independence. 
There have been complaints about the size of the force and other matters in relation to it. I want to say something about the size of the force because I am convinced that the force is overlarge in relation to the task which it is to perform. Since World War II in no other area has the United Nations proposed or in fact put in a peacekeeping force comparable in size, in proportion to the number of people it is to serve, with the force it proposes for Namibia. I merely want to go through the historical position. If one goes through the United Nations supervisory organisations one will find that in the Middle East in 1949 the force numbered 6,000, but now it numbers 300. The United Nations observer group in Lebanon in 1958 was a force of 600. The United Nations expeditionary force in the Middle East in 1956 was 6,000. On that occasion there was a full scale war. The United Nations expeditionary force in the Middle East after the October 1 973 war numbered 4,300. In both cases there were active wars involving nations of millions of people. In the United Nations force in Lebanon, following Israel's raid in June 1978, there were 4,000 troops. It is complicated by some other factors, but again that involved nations with millions of people. The largest effort made, of course, was in relation to the Belgian Congo in the 1960-61 period. The United Nations force comprised 17,500 troops and 2,000 administrative officers and personnel. That applied, as we know, in relation to a country which had a population of 14 million. There were secessionist wars, and there was the Lumumba and Kasavubu conflict. Belgian troops had been put in there and some difficulties occurred with them. But in respect of Namibia it is proposed to put 7,500 troops into an area which has 850,000 to 900,000 people. 
I should like to recite one ratio to indicate my point on the question: Is the proposed United Nations force far too large for the number of people to be served? I take the example of the Congo which had the largest force- other than Korea, which was a quite different situationsince World War II. In the Congo one United Nations force member was put in for every 720 people. In respect of Namibia it is to be one for every 113 people. So, I suggest that the Australian Government ought to propose to the Secretary-General of the United Nations that there is a case for a reasonable reduction in the force proposed to go to Namibia. After all, our aim is to achieve a workable and reasonable compromise in that territory. We must remember that this should not be an excuse to put in an over-sized force. If the force is over-sized extra bloodshed will be caused. That extra bloodshed will be caused perhaps more in the going than in the arriving of the respective troops. I am not satisfied, therefore, on the evidence, that 7,500 United Nations troops is a reasonable number. I suggest that it deserves to be reduced. It deserves to be reduced, quite apart from any personal predilections or personal prejudices that may be held by any of the contestants. 
-I direct to the Prime Minister a question which concerns the United Nations Security Council proposal to station 7,500 United Nations troops in Namibia during that country's transition to independence. Is the Prime Minister aware that, given the size of Namibia, this would represent the greatest concentration of United Nations forces in any area of dispute since World War II, except of course in the open conflict of the Korean war? For example, it is nearly six times the concentration of troops that was present in the Congo. In order to further the aims of attaining a workable and reasonable compromise during Namibia's transition to independence, will the Government suggest to the Secretary-General of the United Nations or to the United Nations itself that there could be reasonably a very substantial reduction in the number of troops proposed for that country? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
Was an agreement signed by representatives of Australia and the People's Republic of China enabling a Chinese Consulate to be opened in Sydney with appropriate rights for Australia to open a Consulate in China. 
If so, did the Australian representative seek at any time during the negotiations to clarify or renegotiate the 1973 Articles of Agreement governing diplomatic relations between Australia and the People 's Republic of China. 
-There is one point which I do want to mention as the first non-lawyer speaking to these estimates from this side of the chamber. In terms of the new arrangements that are proposed in relation to legal aid, some people benefit and some people do not benefit, but it has to be emphasised and made quite clear that as a result of the new arrangements, the new benchmarks, there will be up to $lm extra available in terms of legal aid to pensioners that had not been available before. The Opposition has forgotten that sometimes what some people have others are unable to receive. A mere rudimentary sense of justice- that is all that guides me- would cause me to make that point. 
The Law Reform Commission has been treated very well by governments since the legislation was passed by the Parliament. The treatment it has received is reflected in the estimates. In a period of a little over three years it has received allocations that have increased from $380,000 to over $800,000 this year. No other areas of government- almost without exception- have received that kind of treatment, and that has occurred under more than one government. What it really means is that the Law Reform Commission has a very significant task to perform, but it also has very great responsibilities. 
The  Chairman  of the Law Reform Commission also has very great responsibilities. It is for that reason that the  Chairman  of the Law Reform Commission is given the courtesy title of judge'.  Mr Justice  Kirby has retained that courtesy title. That has done two things. It has added some prestige to the Commission and it has given some responsibilities to Judge Kirby. We know that originally he was appointed to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the relationship of that body to the Constitution in terms of the courtesy title of 'judge' is not as direct as it is in other areas of the law. So, the Commission has a special relationship to the judiciary and I am anxious that Judge Kirby does not overstep the very significant position and title that has been conferred upon him. 
My researches, rudimentary as they are, have indicated that there always has been a distinction between the capacity of ordinary citizens and of members of the judiciary to sit in this place or in the House of Commons. My researches have indicated that although originally the inability of members of the judiciary to sit in this place was related to the matter of parliamentary privilege, of more recent times in the House of Commons it has been made quite clear that it was in order to retain the independence of the judiciary and the position of the judiciary as being quite free from party political controversy. It is a convention that we accept without any distinction whatsoever. So it is on that basis that the Law Reform Commission in its reports, having searched the evidence and pursued its methods of consultation, is rather passive. It makes its report to the House through the Attorney-General. In its 1977 annual report on page 24 the following appears: 
The Commission will continue to experiment with new methods of public consultation to ensure that its proposals are thoroughly aired in the Australian community before the Commission reports. 
The words 'before the Commission reports' are important. I presume that they were chosen, as with the resolution under which the Commission was set up, in order that the Commission should not proselytise its decisions or its views but rather that it should receive views and explain them. Were it to do otherwise, it would be claiming a position for itself, and Judge Kirby, as  Chairman  of the Commission, would be retaining a position for himself that no other member of the judiciary in this country can take for himself. So, I am anxious that the original intention be preserved. I imagine that most members of this House would be anxious that it be preserved too. So, it was with some concern- and I am not expressing a view as to the issues involved- that I read that Judge Kirby after the New South Wales elections when opening a fund raising appeal in Sydney made three comments upon matters of contemporary political moment which I do not think he should have made. Other members of the judiciary would not have done it. 
He referred to three matters. He referred to the call that was made by some churchmen in New South Wales before the New South Wales elections. We will recollect that a call was made by a number of churchmen to the people in that State to consider what they might do. I am not entering into the merits of the argument and the nature of the call that was made, but I do not think it was appropriate then for Judge Kirby to say in respect of that call that this test before an election of the conscience of a politician and the conscience of the electorate when voting for members of parliament represented an undue pressure on politicians. 
This is almost the only time when the electorate has a right and a capacity to know what the budding parliamentarians are about. It has an obligation to test their propositions both against the values of the electorate and against what they think should be done for the State as a corporate entity. So, Judge Kirby, when he made that comment upon churchmen in New South Wales, was overstepping the mark and should not have used his position as Chairman of the Law Reform Commission to do it. 
He made two other points. He spoke about the pressures that play in respect of conscientious objection to membership of a union. There are many views taken on that matter and there are many shades of opinion which exist in relation to it. Those shades of opinion vary in various States of the Commonwealth. It is a matter of quite contemporary political interest and I do not see that Judge Kirby was in the position where he should have raised that matter at that time. There are other methods which are available to him. The Law Reform Commission publishes discussion papers on a variety of matters. Other members of the judiciary do not have that right, do not do it and are not charged with that responsibility. Why then should he go beyond what his immediate discussion papers are about? The third point that he made was in respect of conscientious objection or the value of conscience in relation to the law. He referred to the conscientious objection provisions relating to military service. That matter was of significance some years earlier; it was bound about with quite significant controversy. Views were fairly and validly held on various sides of that conflict. However, it was not appropriate, given the charter that the Law Reform Commission has and given the position that Judge Kirby has, for him to raise that matter at that time. 
The Law Reform Commission has received very great support from governments, far greater support than have other avenues of government expenditure. The fact that it has received that support means that it needs to be very careful indeed not to step over into the area of proselytising or arguing its case and it needs to interpret very carefully what the term 'the modernisation of the law, the testing of current opinion as to what is equity and justice in particular cases', means to the Commission. To any extent, therefore, that the Commission or its head would step over into the area of current policy in replacement for its current discussions or current analysis would do the Law Reform Commission a disservice. I have aired this point of view in this place because the Law Reform Commission needs to be preserved. It needs to be given the respect it is due and those who overstep the mark place it in some considerable jeopardy. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that- 
1 ) The clearly decided intention of Parliament in 1973 was that abortion on demand should not be the law in the Australian Capital Territory; 
Any decision in another place to disallow the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance No. 16 of 1978 is patently in defiance of the decision of 1973 subsequently upheld by the Government; and 
3 ) The operation of section 7 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act which prevents re-presentation of an ordinance embracing the substance of a disallowed ordinance for six months, cannot be allowed as a backdoor method of circumventing the present law. 
It was my privilege before the suspension of the sitting for dinner to listen to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who proposed the amendment for which presumably members of the Labor Party will vote. They have made a very serious mistake, and I want to refer in some detail to the proposals in their amendment. This Bill is one which basically makes capital grants available to the States. Stated simply, that sounds all right, but capital grants are to be made available to the States instead of the old Loan Council commitments so as to release the States from their commitments in terms of State debt. The grants will be of assistance to the States, and this year because of the reduced interest payments States will make on their Loan 
Council raisings compared with what they would have to make were this Bill not passed, the States of Australia and their citizens will be saved over $200m. Having said that, frankly, the Opposition has made a mistake. The amendment, in part, states:  whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Bill- 
1 ) takes no account of the Government's responsibility to allocate resources efficiently and equitably, 
Efficiently and equitably' are two nice words, they might be adverbs or they might be adjectives; but what do they mean? In terms of efficiency, the States are going to be saved over $200m this year- that is a very conservative estimate- on the interest payments they would have to make if this Bill were not passed. What does that mean in terms of efficiency? Who pays? Who meets the interest commitments on Loan Council borrowings? Ultimately it is the people in the States of Australia. As to efficiency, each person in Australia this year will be saved at least $14 to $15, because this legislation has operated since 1970. 
That is right. What could be more efficient than that? I ask further: What could be more equitable than that? If the States spend their money equitably, if some of the States raise their resources with various degrees of equity, the people of Australia in those States under State administrations, under State Governments, will be paying $ 14 to $ 1 5 less in a year because of the operation of this Bill. The incredible part about it is that the Opposition is complaining about this fact. I ask the Opposition to reconsider very carefully what it proposes to do. It has made an error; a grievous error indeed. It was  Dr Earle  Page, later  Sir Earle  Page, who as Treasurer in 1928, after bringing in the financial agreement said: 'Henceforth all Commonwealth-State economic problems are at an end. ' They were not at an end. The financial agreements were to be varied continuously from that time to the present day. But the Opposition has not learned that ultimately it is equity that will support economic and financial arrangements and not some half-baked amendment presented to this House. The honourable member for Gellibrand comes from Victoria. He is going to be supported in a few moments by a man well known on the Flemington race track, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  who is from New South Wales. 
Yes, he has more explanations for yesterday's running than anybody else I could name. If one talks about equity, the capital grants that will be made available by this Bill pre-eminently assist three States of Australia. They will help New South Wales; they will help South Australia very much indeed- far above its due proportion and its due weight in the Australian economy; and as the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has been pointing out- I hesitate to use the words, but almost ad nauseam- they will help Tasmania. Those three Labor States will receive 32 per cent of the grants. South Australia will receive over 13 per cent, which is not relative to South Australia's size in the Australian economy, and Tasmania will be helped to the extent of 7 per cent. The honourable member for Gellibrand has said that this proposal is inequitable, yet the Labor States of Australia will get more than their due proportion of free grants in terms of capital assistance. 
-One could say that it was due to the unbounded generosity of the Federal Government. Some of it is due to historical reasons. I believe that in respect of Tasmania it could even be a frank desire to help. But the facts are there. 
The facts are indisputable. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  is a fair-minded man from time to time and I know that these facts will overwhelm him. Why should the Labor Party propose an amendment to a Bill which will effectively reduce the burden on people in Australian States in terms of meeting loan fund commitments and which will quite inequitably assist the Labor States of Australia compared with the other States. I do not want to be parochial but I am forced to it by the repeated interjections of the honourable member for Melbourne. My own State of Queensland is a fast-growing State which provides a very large proportion of Australia's export income and helps to pay for the industries in the electorate of the honourable member for Melbourne. Queensland will receive only a little over 13 per cent of these free capital grants. We are being inequitably treated, unfairly treated. We are being given far less than our due. Why then should members of the Labor Party vote for this amendment? It is for them to decide. It is for them to say to the electors in their States: ' You should not be relieved of $ 1 4 or $ 1 5 per person a year on account of the operation of this Bill. ' Of course, the last point in the amendment is too silly to contemplate. It states that the disposition of capital grants will increase unemployment. The disposition pf capital grants, properly utilised, does not increase unemployment. In fact it helps employment to be increased, which means that unemployment is decreased.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I know that that argument will immediately impress itself on your mind. 
I go back to the events of 1970, because this Bill derives from that period of Australia's existence. Up to the year 1970 the burden of State debts weighed increasingly on the States of Australia. It weighed increasingly on the States of Australia for two principal reasons, although there are others. One was that interest rates had increased somewhat and so the burden of the repayment of the debt had increased significantly. In addition, compared with the Commonwealth, the States financed their capital works out of loan revenue whilst the Commonwealth financed its capital works out of revenue. That meant that a comparative increasing debt burden was being placed upon the States. This was one of two measures that were brought in that year in order to decrease that burden. It was brought in with.-. the overwhelming idea of equity between the Commonwealth and the States. No other judgment was involved in the proposition. 
Two propositions were put by the Commonwealth in that year. One was to relieve the States of a certain amount of capital debt year by year. The other was to make loan funds available to the States at no interest. At first, 25 per cent of the total loan program was made available to the States in the form of grants at no interest. Subsequently that amount came to be 30 per cent. The States have been very grateful for that. When State premiers say that this is unsatisfactory I hope it is remembered by-this House that the blame for the great decrease in capital works which has occurred in Australia lies far more on the conscience of the States than the Commonwealth. The States have decreased their outlays on capital works as a proportion of their total outlays by up to 10 per cent compared with a decade ago. The Commonwealth has decreased its expenditure on capital works very slightly. Opposition members say that capital works are needed in Australia. I also say that they are needed in Australia but that is the fault of government which embraces the Commonwealth as well as the States. The States have been the principal sinners in this regard. I will leave one thought with the honourable member for Melbourne. I can see he is taking a very close interest. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS I am not passing the buck. The honourable member is taking a very close interest in all I say. Had the States spent the same proportion of their outlays on capital works, for example last year, as they spent 10 years ago, national income in Australia would have been increased by up to $ 1,000m. Capital works have a greater impact and multiplier effect than expenditure on goods and services and cash benefits. That is indisputable. We ask only that this Bill be examined fairly and honestly. It gives capital funds to States in place of what would otherwise be loan funds. It reduces the debt on people living in the States and so it assists them. 
If there is a shortage of capital works in Australia the Commonwealth Government is not the only government which has to take part of the blame. The principal blame has to be taken by the States. The States ought to acknowledge that. I can see from the look in the eyes of the honourable member for Melbourne that he immediately acknowledges the sagacity of what I am pointing out at the moment. I ask him, as I ask all Opposition members, to consider very seriously how he will vote on this Bill. Somebody has given Opposition members a handle to a. door. It is a bright, brassy handle. They have grasped it and they are turning it. They will vote for the amendment attached to that handle but they will go into a room full of contradictions and enigmas. That will do this Parliament no good. It will do the Opposition no good. Many Opposition members are responsible men. I know that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  who will follow me in this debate is a responsible person. He will see the force of these arguments immediately. They have only to be stated for him to realise immediately their worth. Let me illustrate the value of this Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Lilley will address the chair. 
If I can intervene in the debate for a few moments more I will illustrate the value of this Bill. State debt lies upon people such as the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer).  He would be responsible for his State taxes for part of the debt. The rate of inflation for each of the five years to 1970 was 3.16 per cent. The increase in the State debt which had to be met in dollars by the people in those States was in excess of that figure. It was 5.8 per cent per year. From 1 973-74 onwards, through the years of high inflation, the increase in the rate of inflation was 12.6 per cent per year. The increase in the commitment on State debt due to the operation of this Bill was considerably less. It was over 10. 1 per cent per year upon the people. I am simply illustrating that the burden of State debt upon the people who have to pay State charges, taxes, fines and so on is not being increased. It is being decreased. That is what this Government is responsible for". 
The exuberance of the front bench of the Opposition almost overwhelms me. In the few moments remaining to me, I turn to the Loan Council arrangements which were made earlier this week. They are very important. They are a small step in the right direction. State premiers can exercise their rights to raise their own loans for the purposes of certain capital works. Some have expressed a dismay as to whether they should raise their loans on the domestic market or on the overseas market. Why should they be dismayed? If they raise the loans on the domestic market for the reasons for which the Tasmanian Premier and the New South Wales Premier want to raise them, this will not increase the public deficit in Australia one iota. If they are serious when they say that the deficit in Australia has to be increased they would immediately raise their loans on the international market. Were they to do so, the capacity for the total public deficit in Australia- it is not necessarily a Federal or a State deficit- would be increased. When they advise the Commonwealth Government all the time to increase the deficit, they are indicating that they do not want to be part of the process of increasing the deficit for economic management themselves. They are trying to pass the buck. I say that the deficit should be increased and that everybody ought to be involved in the process. The State premiers, including the Labor premiers, are saying that they want to increase the deficit and that they will undertake a pattern of borrowings which might influence it, but they do not want to be part of the area of responsibility in that respect. That is what they are saying. Responsibility has to be shared. I wish to refer to certain other matters in the Commonwealth Grants Commission report which was brought down yesterday. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS I am being pressed by the Minister for Defence as to whether I want an extension of time. A minute or so will be enough. I will refer to other matters in the Commonwealth Grants Commission report on another occasion. For the first time the report refers to the effect of the different debt arrangements which lie upon the States of Australia. I hope that between them they will turn their minds to the basic inequity involved in the present debt arrangements. My own State of Queensland is very seriously disadvantaged. I am pleased to see that for the first time the Treasury in Queensland has presented an argument to that Commission in respect of this matter, even though I have suggested that to it for years in this place. 
This Bill deserves to be supported. It is designed to assist the States. It assists people. It does both quite equitably and most efficiently. I am sure that when the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  speaks he will have very serious second thoughts as to whether he will support the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis). 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer to the welcome proposals announced last Monday to allow the States to negotiate loans for certain capital works. I preface my question by referring to the statements of many authorities including some State Premiers that the size of the Federal deficit could be larger. I ask: To what extent will the Commonwealth assist in negotiation of overseas loans where they are required by the States and to what extent will the Commonwealth therefore help the States to obtain, to participate in and to play their part in achieving a larger total public deficit? Is compensating domestic action proposed to neutralise any such expansion in the total public deficit as distinct from the Federal deficit? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) Did he say at Brisbane Airport on 4 December 1 977 as reported in the  Courier-Mail of 5  December 1977 that$12m probably would be spent on Brisbane Airport redevelopment in the next 18 months and that $2m could be involved by June 1978. 
If so, does the allocation for Brisbane Airport development in 1978-79 in any way detract from that promise. 
Does the Government retract its promise that the new airport will be operating in early 1986. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
In replying to Question No. 1811 will he make it clear that the statement of 4 December 1 977 applied to expenditure on the promised new Brisbane Airport development and not to the provision of temporary facilities at the present airport site. 
I have been trying to work out why the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has moved this motion. I think he has done so to embarrass his own Leader because the economic and the financial consequences of such a proposal are totally preposterous. The consequences of such a proposal for the nature of the democratic system are even more alarming. It will become obvious as we read the heart of the motion to which the honourable member for Port Adelaide is wedded. Paragraph (3) of the motion reads: 
The provision of proportionate subsidies by the Australian Government to political parties and candidates in federal election campaigns . . . 
That is the heart of what the honourable member for Port Adelaide is talking about. Under this motion candidates, members of parliament and political parties are to get into the private purse. Under this proposal they are to plunder the pockets of Australian taxpayers. Our attitude on this side of the House quite overwhelmingly would be more in tune with the motion, notice of which I gave in this House on 21 February in which, among other things, I said: 
That this House, believing- 
1 ) that any proposal to divert taxation or loan revenue to fund a political party will eventually lead to a weakening of the vigour and responsibility which should reside in freely formed political parties; 
that public funds should be used for the benefit of the Australian people and not to promote the contest for power by political parties, and 
that such funding is contrary to the interests of emerging parties and will prolong the power of contrasting political organisations, 
That proposed motion opposed the call that such funding should be provided to political parties. The honourable member for Port Adelaide should not pretend that he is merely proposing an objective, academic, dispassionate inquiry by a committee. What he is doing is in line with what was proposed by a former Prime Minister and Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  who called over and over again for this kind of subsidy. It is in line with what was proposed by the Secretary of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Graham  Richardson. He has called for it on a number of occasions. It is in line with what has been proposed, for example, by the Federal Secretary of the Labor Party. So it is not a random proposition that the honourable member for Port Adelaide has thought about and brought into this place.  Mr Whitlam, Mr Richardson, Mr Combe  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide are in agreement. It is not a random proposition. It is part of a campaign and it ought to be seen as part of a campaign. For example, I quote  Mr Combe,  the Federal Secretary of the ALP, who on 28 May last year said that the only rational solution is for a system of total state funding as now applies in the United States presidential elections or a system of television and radio time, and so on. All those people I mentioned have supported that proposition. The honourable member for Port Adelaide has been persuaded to run this campaign because he supports the idea.  His  own party leaders, organisationally and otherwise, have been persuaded to run it because they support it. I am fascinated that he should take this action because it runs contrary to the principle which was enunciated by his own leader in South Australia, Premier Dunstan, who was asked to comment on his own slush fund in South Australia. I do not argue the merits of that fund but  Mr Dunstan  stated: 
It is totally and completely separate from any Government finances and, as such, it is not the business of this House. 
In other words, the funding of parties, condidates and campaigns is not the business of this House. 
-I am sorry to hear the honourable member for Robertson say that because it ought not to be the business of this House. Let me for a few moments deal with the consequences in the event that such a process were introduced in Australia. The consequences would be enormous. The honourable member for Port Adelaide or the honourable member for Robertson could be accosted in a street in a suburb of the electorate by a pensioner who received a payment from the Government, say, an aged pensioner, and he would say: 'Look, I am sorry, you know, we could have paid you an extra dollar a week in pension payment but we have taken that money because I need it to pay for my campaign and my party's political campaign'. That is a proposition with which honourable members would be faced. 
We are dealing with Australian democracy; we are not dealing with English democracy. I am interested to see the imperialists trying to impose the worst of what they see in other countries. Another consequence if this motion were accepted would be a situation in which the honourable member for Robertson would say, when he comes across a mother of three or four children in a street: 'We would like to have given you a little more money in family allowance payment for your children but- and I know that you will understand- we have taken that because I want that money to pay for my political campaign and my party's campaign. You should support it because it will go to pay for some of those television operators, radio station broadcasters, and the printers so that they can put out the propaganda on my behalf for you. I do not know how you voted, but you will feel happier about this proposition'. I could imagine nothing that would be so designed to destroy any of the responsibility of the people for their own democratic system. 
Irrespective of what happens elsewhere, honourable members on the Opposition side must face up to the situation which I have described and which would occur in the streets in their own suburbs or cities. The people will not accept such a proposition and they ought to say so. Therefore, I believe that the honourable member for Port Adelaide has moved this motion to embarrass his own Leader because his Leader, a friend of mine for many years and a man whom I respect, has been trying to steer a sensible and responsible path for his own party especially in terms of economic affairs. He has been trying to get away from the proposition put by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who sees virtue in having increased taxation because of the virtue of public expenditure.  His  leader, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  has been trying to avoid those propositions. Now the honourable member puts it on him. I ask the honourable member What is he about; why is he doing it; why should he do it? The honourable member may be given an opportunity to say more a little later. We all know that there has never been a time when there has not been a crisis over political party funds. This crisis ought to be recognised for what it is and for nothing else. It does not invite this absurd kind of proposition. 
There is an old saying: The pop of the pop gun is the pop of a pop gun; it is not the crisis of doom. I believe that the honourable member for Port Adelaide has made a serious and very significant error of judgment. Look at the morality of the proposition. The Opposition would plunder the pockets of people and ask them to pay directly for political campaigns on issues to which they would have been totally and completely opposed for all their working lives. Consider the morality of that proposition. Honourable members opposite are not going to ask for money to be allocated through the Parliament; they are not going to ask for money from general funds. They have put forward a direct proposition that people be asked to make a subvention for this purpose. I believe it is almost a totally immoral proposition - 
The present situation has a great deal wrong with it but the Opposition would be compounding error upon error and grievous fault upon faults that are nothing like it. I ask the Opposition to consider this matter. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide spoke about proportionate funds. The Opposition would ask people to pay out of their own pockets for the campaigns of revolutionary parties which are designed to bring down the very system in which they operate. I am not talking here about the legal right of such parties to exist. The Opposition would import its own Trojan horse into the Australian democratic system. I would ask the Opposition to reconsider what it is about. Quite frankly, it has made a mistake and it ought to consider that it has made a mistake. I have said that I think the honourable member for Port Adelaide has raised this matter to embarrass his own leader. But I do not suggest that he has done it in order to pose such a threat to democracy. But whether he is doing it knowingly or unknowingly, he is in fact doing it. 
Consider the Public Service. Can anyone imagine anything which is designed more sensitively and quickly to politicise the Public Service? It is proposed that the Public Service inspect the tactics, the books and the campaigns of political parties and see what they are about. It is proposed that the Public Service examine whether political parties are running bona fide campaigns or whether they are running false campaigns; whether they are really running candidates or whether they are running dummy candidates in order to get funds. The Opposition proposes to put public servants in offices to administer the law. It proposes that public servants administer the proportionate subsidies that would go to political parties in campaigns. The Opposition would completely politicise the Public Service in a way that has not been contemplated previously in Australia. So I plead with the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I believe there is the faintest glimmer of understanding coming across his brow now as to what he has been about. I ask the honourable member to consider again what he has done and to consider again the kind of doomsday situation into which he is leading his own party. 
The United States of America has a system something like the proposed system although not quite ofthe order envisaged by the honourable member. The system distorted the 1976 presidential campaign enormously. The evidence is that during the first eight months of operation of the Federal Electorate Commission over 17,000 man hours were spent merely on the public financing of the law. At the moment the Public Service has staff ceilings, people have a resistance to paying more taxation and loan funds are difficult to raise. Yet the Opposition is asking for revenue for this purpose. The Opposition should consider the pensioner and the mother in receipt of the family allowance and what it proposes to do to them. 
There are other matters that need to be brought into mind. We are not frozen into our present political system forever. There is a government and there is an opposition. Other parties have the right to come on to the scene or to depart from the scene. This has happened ever since Federation. However, the Opposition would divert public funds into freezing the present political system. 
The honourable member for Holt has a beautiful turn of phrase, a medical term the Opposition's proposal would ossify the present political system absolutely and irreparably. I say to the honourable member for Port Adelaide and those few- they must be very few- sensible people who would support him that this would toll a dreadful litany of disaster in the Australian political system. 
-No. The honourable member has argued the proposition strongly. The former Leader of the Opposition has argued it, the New South Wales secretary of the Labor Party has argued it; and the Federal Secretary of the Labor Party has argued it. The honourable member for Port Adelaide should not come here and say that the Opposition merely wants an academic inquiry by a committee of this Parliament. The honourable member and most of the members of his party have a definite point of view. I say that that point of view is unacceptable, and ought to be unacceptable, to the Australian people. The faults are enormous. The proposal would distort elections; it would distort the taxation system; it would demoralise a great part of the electorate into giving funds for the purposes to which I have referred; it would politicise the Public Service in a way that would be totally unacceptable; and in those cases where support would be given to parties that are totally opposed to our system it would introduce an unwarranted and unwanted Trojan horse into the Australian system. I merely say that the honourable member for Port Adelaide is a sincere man, and I know he would be subject to some reflection. I merely say five words to him again: Go and have another think. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)That is in order. 
-In the absence of the Minister for Trade and Resources, I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the advice and the hopes made clear by the Government in respect of trade with China, particularly in relation to the export of technology from Australia. I ask the Prime Minister: Has the Government an attitude on barter arrangements between China and an Australian exporting firm such as those that have existed with a number of British exporters for whom marketing rights in Great Britain were reserved exclusively by China following the use of the original British technology? 
-I am aware of the great and growing interest and the excitement about matters we are debating at nearly one o'clock in the morning. That being the case, I will not take a long time to say what has to be said. Because this Export Market Development Grants Amendment Bill is aimed to developing export markets it deals with that characteristic of economies which marks the successful economies of the world as distinct from those that are not successful. Immediately one thinks of successful economies one thinks of Japan and West Germany. What distinguishes Japan and West Germany from the rest of the world is their capacity to export and the capacity of their currencies to increase in value. The simple proposition is that they have positive balances of trade. This Bill is aimed at developing export markets in order that Australia can achieve a more satisfactory balance of payments or balance in its current account 
I want to say a few words on what is known as the great and growing market of China. Perhaps I might give a few warnings to the House. The glittering prospects of the China market may not exist in the way we have been led to believe. The famous British house of Jardine, Matheson and Co. also had this prospect of a euphoric market in China after the treaty of Nanking. According to its information the Chinese did not eat correctly, they ate with chopsticks. The firm immediately exported knives and forks to China. It was also told that the Chinese did not dress properly so it exported suits and western clothes to China. It was told that the Chinese could have a sense of culture so it exported pianos to China. Those goods rusted and rotted in ports along the coast of China. That market, which was looked at nearly 140 years ago, never ever quite developed. Today, when we hear magnificent reports concerning the prospects of the Chinese market, I would hope that the Government would give exporters very precise advice and quite clear guidelines as to what might happen. 
The Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  who is at the table, returned recently from China and quite correctly said that there may be wonderful prospects for the export of Australian technology to China. This Bill would play a part, I would presume, in assisting the export of some technology to that nation. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  a little earlier spoke about the capacity for exports to China. Other leaders have spoken about it; the former Minister for Overseas Trade in 1973,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, spoke in the same vein. I bring a few matters before the House tonight so that the prospects in that country may be seen in a more precise light We ask: What hopes are there in the country, and what can be done to see that the hopes will be realised without excessive hurt? 
One or two things need and have to be said. China's possession of foreign exchange is quite small. In relation to her trade which is $ US 19,000m per year, her possession of foreign exchange is only in the order of $2,500m.  Her  possession of gold reserves overseas is in the order of $2,500m. So, immediately, her capacity to engage in normal multilateral trade is not great; it is relatively small. It is the reason why China desires to engage overwhelmingly in the barter trade. My information is that even at the present time 25 per cent of China's trade is in terms of barter. As an example, this has been used by the Japanese in respect of the SinoJapanese Trade Treaty of very recent date. The Japanese have been able to bring that Treaty to the stage at which it is because they are willing to engage in barter trade. Chinese oil from Tai Clung- it is heavy; it is waxy- is another element in the export of Japanese technology and machine equipment. So, barter trade is important to China and will remain important in that country. 
What does this mean for Australia? It means that Australia in her exports to China will have to look very carefully to see the way in which those exports will be consumated. Those exports will have to contend with the fact that China is short of foreign exchange. In many ways, of course, a controlled economy is better attuned to barter trade than it is to normal multilateral trade. I will give one example of what has occurred and then raise some matters with the Government with respect to Chinese trade. 
Recently, a British firm- a famous toy manufacturer- indicated that it had made trade agreements with China. Here I am referring to Dunbee Combex Marks. Amongst other things it is a toy manufacturer. Previously that firm had made trade agreements with Russia in which it exported its technology. The goods were made in Russia, in return for which the firm then marketed the goods in the country of origin, Great Britain. The general Manager and Director was in Australia recently and indicated that his firm had made similar deals with respect to China. This matter raises very important matters for trade within this country and also for foreign policy. 
The firm exported its second division toy technology to China; the toys and the goods are to be made in China, in return for which it retains the marketing rights in Great Britain and in a number of other European countries. What would happen were similar arrangements able to be made in respect of Australia? I will go through a few of them: The goods which are made in China and are then able to be exported are made basically with slave labour. That fact just has to be acknowledged. 
The excellent article written by Professor Audrey Donnithorne in the issue of  Quadrant  on China- she is a woman with an impeccable reputation- pointed out, for example, that in the wage structure in that country there had been no adjustment in wages whatsoever from the late 1 950s to 1977. China's official wage policy is that wages rise below the rate of productivity. No measure of inflation occurs and no adjustment for prices is made. I repeat: Wages rise just below the rate of productivity. Of course this policy includes quite significant incentives. Were such barter deals to exist between Australian exporting firms and China, the first question would be: What rights will exist for the exporting firm to market, similarly to what the Dunbee Corporation has done, those goods in this nation? We need to be very careful. Will it be acceptable that those goods may be marketed from second division technology but with slave labour? What happens with respect to the ASEAN countries? There is some worry that this technology can and will interrupt the nature of the ASEAN countries' exports to Australia. This has been expressed quite explicitly in a very respectable journal. In the  Asia Research Bulletin  of October 1978 at page 493, the editor poses this very important point: 
How competitive China is going to be with Singapore and other Southeast and East Asian exporters of light industrial goods remains to be seen. It looks ominous. 
But it also means a great deal to Australia, because the export of such technology to China, with results similar to those that occurred in respect of the British corporation mentioned, would interrupt and overtake the development of trade between ASEAN countries and Australia. Therefore, I suggest to the House even at this late stage that various matters concerning trade between Australia and China need to be examined. Will barter arrangements be acceptable to this country? If so, will they be acceptable irrespective of the circumstances under which the goods will be manufactured in China with the technology that is expected to be exported from this country? The Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  has referred specifically to the fact that technology is likely to be exported. Will normal multilateral trade relations exist? China's possession of foreign exchange is not sufficient to tie in with the rate of growth which she proposes under the five and ten-year plans which she has promulgated. Finally, and fourthly, were such things to be allowed to go on, irrespective of what is happening between the ASEAN nations and Australia, foreign policy relations would be concerned very precisely indeed. 
Matters of trade are quite important. They cannot be ignored. Ultimately trade matters are what distinguish the successful countries of the world from those that are unsuccessful. I would hope that this matter of trade would be looked at by the Government very precisely indeed. 
It was a delight to listen to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and to realise the universal support and approbation throughout this House, not only from the Government side but also from the Opposition side, for what he has said. One could feel the support growing by the minute for everything that he said. I am delighted to follow him in this debate tonight. 
I am also delighted in a special way to speak to the Commonwealth Grants Commission Bill. For many years I tried to persuade the Queensland Government to approach the Commonwealth Grants Commission as a claimant State. There were others who helped. A notable journalist, Wallace Brown, helped in that campaign from 1966 to 1971. As a result of that approach this application as a claimant State has been worth $250m to that State. I am delighted that that has occurred. I know that all honourable members in this House will support the proposition that it should occur. I will refer to one or two points with respect to the Grants Commission report and will then make a wider case of matters that presently are not being considered by the Commonwealth Grants Commission but which are very important. 
For the first time, this Grants Commission has considered a case by the State Treasury that the cash grants which are in substitute for a proportion of the loan funds should be taken into account for the equalisation measures between the States. I pointed this out in 1974, in 1975, in 1976 and last year. I am pleased to see that for the first time the argument is being promoted. Simply put, it is this: Over the years the allocation for the loan funds for the various States has rested upon history. States which initially had a low allocation under the loan program were consequently able to get a fairly low proportion of assistance through capital grants. It has certainly meant that the assistance to the States which was first developed in 1970 under the Gorton Government and which had been carried on since to make capital grants for nonrevenue purposes free has assisted some States more than others. Therefore, the point to which Queensland had a low loan allocation reflected the extent to which it received less assistance through that scheme than would otherwise occur. 
I hope that, as the years go by, the Commonwealth Grants Commission will see the merit of that case. I do not believe that it is sufficient to say that, because Loan Council allocations are consummated by the Commonwealth and the States according to a certain formula, therefore, the consideration of the effect of those allocations as between States should be ignored completely. I do not agree with that proposition. If that proposition were to apply, all kinds of section 96 grants would be excluded from valid consideration in this respect. 
I refer to one point, perhaps the crucial point, that may have been missed by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  This measure concerns fiscal equalisation. It concerns an attempt to provide equalisation in terms of Government services between one State and the other States of the Commonwealth. Originally Queensland would not go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission because it was persuaded that, by doing so, it would lose its free hospital scheme. That assertion was always incorrect. In 1971, the State grasped the nettle and went to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It did not lose its free hospital scheme. Other events intervened in the meantime. 
So, fiscal equalisation applies only in respect of government revenue, government expenditure and the provision of government services. But that does not mean that there is to be a much broader economic equality. I would suggest that the Commonwealth Grants Commission should take into account other measures in order to look at the wider measure of equality as between States. It ought to take into account the matter of the application of tariffs and quotas and of the external trade policy effects as between the States of Australia. Unless it does this, there will always be some parts of the country which may have a greater net value added from each input into their industry but which will have a lower standard of living. That is precisely what is happening in Australia at the moment. Queensland happens to be the second great exporting State of this country. It is second to Western Australia in the amount that it exports per person in the State. I ask the House to consider this: Should a State in that position have one of the lowest standards of living in Australia? One has only to state that proposition to see how absurd it is. I ask the House to consider why that is so. It is so for one overwhelming reason- the effects as between the States of Australia of the application of tariffs and quotas. I have already made application this year to give some evidence at the hearings of the Commonwealth Grants Commission to discuss those matters. Unless they are discussed, equality will never be achieved, and equality will be to the economic benefit of Australia. I have never believed that the subsidisers should have a lower standard of living than those who are receiving the subsidy. Yet in fact that is what occurs. Why should the matter of the application of tariffs and quotas as between States be considered? In the first speech in this House on the Bill setting up the Commonwealth Grants Commission, Prime Minister Lyons had this to say in 1 933: 
If a State feels that as a result of, say, the operation of the tariff, it is suffering disadvantage, there will be nothing to prevent it from not only putting that to the Commission as a reason why it should be assisted, but also assessing the value of that disadvantage. 
That has never yet been done in a considered and ordered manner. In the first report in 1934 the Grants Commission listed the matters for consideration by the Commission for subsequent years, and on page 12 of its report it stated: 
The more important of these factors may here be enumerated: 
There are 12 factors listed, but I will read only two: 
The diversity of the States in size, population, natural resources and state of development; 
b) The effect of the tariff policy of the Commonwealth; 
This matter was foreshadowed by Prime Minister Lyons. It was foreshadowed in the first report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. In the second report of the Commission at page 10 it considered this matter again:  the States asserted that these losses had been accentuated by Commonwealth policy, particularly the tariff. 
The report went on: 
The idea that all the potentialities of Australia should be developed had led to the adoption of a policy for the encouragement of secondary industry, and the instrument selected for this purpose was a protective tariff. 
The question that needs to be asked by the States is this: What enables the standard of living to be achieved in those parts of Australia which are protected by the tariff? The answer is simple: The ability of industry to function in those States at less than the average rate of protection of the tariff. Simply stated, there is a transfer from the exporting States to the net importing States. What is the extent of that transfer? When I hear members in this House from either the Government or the Opposition pour scorn upon the Mount Isas or the Utahs or the Blackwaters of this world- on the coalmines- I believe that they are being incredibly absurd. The Chrysler Australia Limited factory in Adelaide, as with the Ford Motor Co. works in Melbourne, is enabled to pay the level of wages and profits that it does pay through the operation of tariffs and quotas. It is able to pay its workers and managers an amount in excess of the net value added as a result of its activity through the operation of the great exporting industries. There is a transfer from the export industries to those that are protected. That is the way it occurs. 
I want to go over one or two other matters because they deal with the very principles of this legislation and I do not think that they have been previously dealt with in this House in this way. From the beginning of this financial year to the end of September about $900m- worth of subsidy equivalents were paid to industry in Australia through the application of the Budget but overwhelmingly through tariffs and quotas. The overwhelming part of that assistance went to the south-eastern corner of Australia. The overwhelming part of it went to Victoria and to a lesser extent South Australia. It was enabled to be paid in terms of the return to workers and managers in those industries because of the efforts of the exporting industries. More precisely, what has happened over the last six or seven weeks is that decisions have been made for tariff and quota protection. I do not disagree with that, but let us look at the size of the transfers. Assistance has been paid through tariff and quota protection since the beginning of October to the extent of about $130m. Those who pour scorn on the outlying States ought to remember that between $60m and $70m of that assistance went to Victoria. The rest was divided almost totally between New South Wales and South Australia. That is why the basic exporting States are always battling uphill to get a standard of living for their people equal to that which applies in the trade-protected parts of the Commonwealth. 
Consider the assistance given since the beginning of October to the carpet industry and to the bed sheeting and linen industry, and remember that in one of those the net subsidy equivalent per person is $20,000 a year- yes, some of it applies to Victoria as well- and an extra bounty was given to that industry. That is all to the good, but let us understand who ultimately pays for it. Assistance was given to the manufacture of gear boxes and associated parts, to hosiery and underwear, to certain engines and so on, to the extent of $ 130m. In total, between 19,000 and 20,500 workers have received assistance through the decisions to protect those various industries. The amount of assistance which goes to people in my State would apply to between 800 and 900 workers. That is the ultimate disproportion that occurs and that is the ultimate disproportion that needs to be rectified. Those transfers need to be taken into account and must be taken into account when the other grants and loan funds and revenue funds are divided between the States. It will occur, and it ought to occur. In case the House might think that this is a theoretical argument and one that is not important, let me put it in this way: The disproportionate effects within a country of the application of protection policies should never be ignored. The events that led up to the United States Civil War were duc in large measure to the effects of protection policy advantage in the north and the feeling of grievance that lay upon the southern States. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  with his sense of history, will immediatly recall the South Carolina resolutions, the nullification proposals. 
That is right. He made his name by that means, but he felt about it. They were not able in those days to formulate precisely the disadvantage but they felt that there was a disadvantage. What I am saying to this House is that that feeling of grievance as well as the slavery issue played its own part in the development of the American Civil War. In Australia that revolt of the south against the north owed its origins to some economic issues. In this country one has to be careful that a feeling of grievance on the part of the outlying States does not develop when they compare their situation with that of the protected States. 
Let us not distort a serious proposition. If there is a growing inequality and people feel that there is a transfer of real resources from their industry to people living at a higher standard of living but having a lower net value of production, there will be a genuine sense of grievance. That cannot be avoided. It is the basis of a fair go for all. It also has its application in terms of a sense of fiscal equality. So I hope that the House will consider those matters. 
In the early days of the Grants Commission it was hoped that those matters would be considered. It might be that the precise consideration of these effects are outside the terms of reference of the Grants Commission as they were defined in the late 1930s and, perhaps, as they are denned in the present legislation. Those matters must be considered. The Grants Commission legislation has to do with fiscal equalisation on the part of governments, but its interest extends no further. The other transfers in this nation must be considered and I believe that they will be. 
I make one other point. As a result of such transfers there is, of necessity, a distortion in the exchange rate that applies to a country, and the exchange rate will be kept at a higher level than would otherwise be the case. That high level of exchange rate can help protected parts of the country but can disadvantage those parts of the country that export to the rest of the world. That is the second and significant distortion that deserves to be considered. I support this Bill. It is a very important Bill. I believe that the wider matters that are involved in it deserve consideration by this House and by the Parliament in the future. 
-I will respond very quickly on behalf of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure to the response by the Government through the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay).  I appreciate that the Minister was acting for the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann).  It is in the Department of Veterans' Affairs that the Defence Service Homes Act is presently administered. I will go through the points that have been made as quickly as I can. I believe that the response has been grudging and rather bare and very unfair. I will deal with the recommendations seriatim. 
The first recommendation referred to the Government appointing a suitably qualified person to assess the relative effectiveness of programs, et cetera. Very little comment is deserved on this matter at present. In passing, one would say that if one of the objectives of the Defence Service Homes Scheme is to attract and retain regular servicemen in the Defence Force, and if there is really no method of assessing the effectiveness of this and other programs which are designed to do a similar job, then one might as well pull policies and money values attached to these policies out of a hat and treat them appropriately. 
The second recommendation was to explain the objectives of the Defence Service Homes Scheme. I am pleased that the Government has defined the objectives of the scheme. We would like to study the response because it does not make it clear whether the objectives have also been explained as asked for in the recommendation. 
The third recommendation referred to the title of the Defence Service Homes Scheme. It is in this way that I think it may be demonstrated that the response of the Department which the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay),  acting for the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, has read, has been mean. That is the only way to put it. This recommendation was made because the Committee felt that the long title of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918-'. . . to make provision for homes for Australian Soldiers and Female Dependants of Australian Soldiers'- was no longer appropriate. The third recommendation made an attempt to make the long title more appropriate, although the Committee would never claim to have any expertise in legal drafting. It seems quite mean, therefore, for the Government to respond by saying it is not prepared to adopt the long title suggested by the Committee, but has agreed to leave this technical issue, as it defines it, in the hands of the Parliamentary Counsel. That is a grudging concent if ever one was to see one. 
Recommendation 4, the cash grant alternative, which lay at the heart of our proposals, was that beneficiaries be given an option of a subsidised housing loan or a cash grant to be used to acquire a residence, this recommendation is central to the Committee's report. Indeed, it is referred to as the most innovative and challenging proposal put forward in the 60 years of the scheme's existence. Although some broad judgments are required, the Committee provided arguments which suggested that a grant of about $5,000 would not increase the cost of the scheme to taxpayers, and yet would prove attractive to many Defence Service Homes Scheme beneficiaries, particularly those who now must take out bridging loans or who might be unable to take advantage of the defence service home loan because of a deposit gap. 
The Government simply asserts that a grant of $7,000 would be needed to make our proposal viable. We never mentioned $7,000. 1 could not get the calculation up to $7,000, no matter what interest rate might be used. I ask: Why? By what process of reasoning is a grant of this order necessary? It would seem that this figure has been based on a totally misleading distinction between the way benefits to recipients and costs to taxpayers are calculated. It has also been based on the same inaccurate line of reasoning put forward by the Department of Veterans' Affairs, which seeks to put the grant proposal in its worst light. For example, the argument ignores the savings that eligible persons would make from having to pay bridging finance of about $1,500 and, in some cases, $3,000 as reported in the sixty-first annual report of the National Executive of the Returned Services League of Australia. 
The Committee's further argument that some of the administrative savings made available under a cash grant scheme could be given to recipients has been rejected by the Government 'as a matter of principle'. We ask: What principle? How can such a matter be rejected when the whole basis of the Committee's argument is that in the short term a cash grant should not cost more, whilst in the long term it could lead to significant savings in administrative costs which could be shared between the recipient and the taxpayers? If a loan is given somebody has to be kept in employment for 30-odd years to receive the monthly payments. Under the system we suggested, no one has to be kept in employment for 30-odd years or, in some cases, 40 years to receive the monthly payments so surely that would represent an administrative saving, on top of other savings. Our suggestion has been totally ignored. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  was a highly valued and honoured member of the Committee. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  and the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred)  put a lot of work into developing the idea of the cash grants. We examined very carefully departmental arguments. Our consideration of the case for the cash grant was presented in detail in about 30 paragraphs of the report. I must express disappointment that these arguments have been treated in a cavalier fashion. 
The very good news for the Government is that it would be of benefit to the Government to adopt some of the Committee's recommendations. It would gain a lot of credit throughout the country. A number of other recommendations followed upon the cash grant proposition. They did not find favour. The other recommendations fall according to the response we have received so far from the Department of Veterans' Affairs. 
Recommendation 8 concerns the interest rate payable by the Defence Service Homes Scheme on the accumulated capital. We suggested that it should be shown as being paid at the long term bond rate. I do not quite understand the nature of the response which has been read in respect of this matter. It is certainly not very clear at all. It might be that a variation of the decision on that matter is still possible. Recommendation 9 referred to the number of staff which were employed in the processing of new applications in a number of States. We stated that the number of staff could be reduced in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania by eight, four and two staff members respectively. 
I say that the Government's response to this recommendation frankly is unsatisfactory. It simply states that the Defence Service Homes Corporation's on-going manpower review programs have led to greater staff reductions than those recommended by the Committee. It does not comment on the relevance of the Committee 's technique in reaching its conclusion, nor does it give figures to show the extent to which the reductions we proposed have been exceeded, nor does it indicate when those reductions came about, whether before or after this report became public. It became public at the end of the autumn session of Parliament in 1978. That timing is of importance. I believe that it might show that the Department of Veterans' Affairs has been far too grudging in its response to the initiative which the Committee has shown. 
Recommendation 10 is a technical recommendation with respect to the use of magnetic tapes. I will read the response to that recommendation. Once again, the response is quite unsatisfactory. It states: 
The Government is satisfied that the equipment purchased by the Corporation, and the uses to which it will be put, are consistent with both the Corporation's requirements and the guidelines established by the Public Service Board. 
What does that mean? I do not know what is means. Does the Government agree that, as is stated in the report at paragraph 136, the feasibility study which led to the purchase of equipment had limited objectives in that it merely viewed the computer as an alternative to the accounting operations then in use? What about the recommendation concerning the cost effectiveness study to determine whether magnetic tape units should be used as an alternative to microfiche in registry work? The Government just has not responded to this recommendation. 
I refer to recommendation 1 1. The honourable member for Grayndler had a great deal to do with this recommendation. One can do so irrespective of the side of the House on which one sits. This recommendation concerned an alternative method of payment. I believe that the Government again has misunderstood the whole purpose of the section which dealt with charges of the Australian Postal Commission. In a sense, paragraphs 139 to 148 state that there is a prima facie case for alternative arrangements, or for a combination of alternative arrangements, to be examined because of the potential for significant cost savings. Honourable members should realise that the Postal Commission charges 2.31 per cent for processing each monthly repayment of each borrower. For example, for a person whose monthly repayments are $73.82- that is the repayment for the present $15,000 loan over 32 years- the Australian Postal Commission's commission is $1.71 a month. This appeared to us to be an inordinately high figure. We suggested the examination of a variety of alternatives which could have resulted in savings of about $lm. What is the Government's response? It says that 'difficulties would arise for many borrowers if the long standing arrangements through post offices were withdrawn or altered'. What are the difficulties? Tell us the difficulties. This statement itself is misleading because one of the alternatives related to new borrowers and not existing borrowers. Therefore it appears that the Government's response is misleading to say the least. 
Then, of course, there is the intriguing conclusion which says that on balance, et cetera, things will be continued for the time being. I regard this as a typical piece of Public Service language which resides in people who are unable to come to any conclusion. We had offers from national organisations. The honourable member for Grayndler would agree that each repayment could cost 40c or 60c instead of $ 1 .7 1 . 
-There is a very significant difference between 60c a repayment and $1.71 a repayment per month for 30 years. Yet this suggestion seems to have been rejected out of hand. I do not know why this was done. The Minister for Construction, who is at the table, is a thoroughly decent Minister. I know that he has read the response of the Department of Veteran's Affairs very accurately. But why should that recommendation be rejected? 
I would like to make two other points very quickly. I will then sit down. We suggested that the annual reports of the Defence Service Homes Corporation include information on unit costs of processing new applications. The response to that is rather up in the air, but there seems to have been a win in that appropriate changes have been made to the relevant legislation to allow persons to insure their properties with the company of their choice. The members of the Committee- the honourable members for Grayndler, Parramatta, Henty, Berowra and me- are very disappointed with this response. The Committee will, of course, consider the response in detail and no doubt at a later date it will give a fuller reply in respect of its attitude to the response. We hope that the very good sense of what we propose will be seen for what it isthat is, very valuable to the Government- when this matter is debated after that reply is examined. We believe that the major parts of our recommendations, if adopted, would be very valuable to those people who are eligible for a defence service homes loan. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) What reasons were given to the Australian Government to attract its support for the proposition that the United Nations should station 7,500 troops in Namibia. 
What special circumstances were proposed to support such a high concentration of forces. 
Was the view ever canvassed that such a large number of forces must almost inevitably invite the opposition of the South African Government. 
Have compromises been sought between the UN and South Africa. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House 
1 ) Noting that Japan, the Philippines, Greece, Thailand and Indonesia among other nations, have representation in Taiwan; 
And that the Taiwanese representation of many of these countries is supported from public expenditure; 
And that the above nations other than Indonesia, each have official diplomatic missions in Peking which do not prevent such representations in Taiwan; 
And noting further than ex-ambassadors and consuls staff at least one of these missions in such a way as to allow them to return at the end of their sojourn in Taiwan to normal duties without disadvantage; 
Asserts that Australian relations with mainland China should not be interpreted more restrictively than applies to a host of other nations, especially as Australia has been so compliant with the wishes of mainland China in the past and therefore requests that the Australian Goverment immediately open an office or offices in Taiwan to promote a similar range of activities for the benefit of our mutual peoples and to help balance the Australian international current account. 
-The original amendment proposed to new sub-clause 48C (2) was mine. It was designed to do one simple thing and that was to preserve the authority of the Parliament with respect to the Auditor-General. As the Bill was first presented, the authority of the Parliament was not included and that is why the proposition was put that after the words 'with an arrangement made by him, at the request of a Minister' in line 4 on page 26, there be inserted the words 'or the Parliament'. That was to apply to the organisation being subject to the appropriate audit. After discussing it with officers of the Department I agreed that it would be more appropriate to have 'both Houses of Parliament'. It was originally proposed that a request for an efficiency audit would be by resolution of the Parliament and would be conveyed through the Minister to the Auditor-General. I did not agree with that proposition because that was reinforcing the proposition that the prior relationship concerned was between the Minister and the Auditor-General and of course that is not the way in which the Auditor-General has traditionally worked in our system. 
I must say that I was a little disappointed that I learnt of the total redrafting of this proposed clause only this morning and that I learnt of it somewhat by accident. It was after the legislation committee met in November that I discussed the matter with departmental officers. They came and saw me, and I agreed to the proposition that both Houses of Parliament be included. Until this morning I thought that that was, in fact, the proposition to be moved here. Having been quite frank and open with the officers- they would agree with me on that- I was a little disappointed to learn that the whole of sub-section 48C (2) was to be redrafted and that I was to learn of it rather by accident. The legislation committee has been quite open, it has been nonpartisan, and members have opened their minds to one another quite free, I believe, from political bias. It would have been an appropriate accompaniment to that attitude for a redrafting of amendments accepted by the committee to be made known to all of those who were concerned in the legislation committee. Excepting that particular matter, I agree with this proposed amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. I refer to a report in one of the Melbourne dailies, the  Age,  of today's date. I understand that it is a daily of fairly low circulation. Page 13 of that newspaper refers to a notice of motion I gave in the Parliament yesterday in relation to Taiwan. The sixth paragraph of that article written by Tony Walker had this to day: 
The Cairns proposal virtually amounts to the resumption of formal relations. 
That is, with Taiwan. That is a misrepresentation because the notice of motion I gave yesterday made four points to which I will refer very quickly. My notice of motion made it clear that I accept that there should be Australian representation in Peking! It made it clear that that did not suggest that Australia should be excluded from appropriate representation in Taiwan, as occurred with a host of other nations. The notice of motion then quoted a host of other nations which had representation in Peking and other than formal diplomatic representation in Taiwan. The last few lines of my notice of motion- I would have thought that the journalist would have read them- had this to say:  . . and therefore requests that the Australian Government immediately open an office or offices in Taiwan to promote a similar range of activities for the benefit of our mutual people . . . 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refer to recent statements made by him in relation to foreign policy. Can honourable members hear me? 
-I will keep on going. Has the Minister been able to detect - 
-I was fascinated with the speech of the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  He seemed to concede that, whilst the United States has lost significant military and economic power in the world, this loss, which is both relative and absolute, has been accompanied by an increase in diplomatic power and significance. He said that the United States should not rest upon a geopolitical analysis of what is happening in the world but on a whole multitude of single instances. That is not true. The advisers to  President  Carter, both before and after he became  President,  made a geo-political analysis of what they intended with respect to the world. One only has to look at the workings of the trilateral commission of which Brzezinski, Carter, Vance and so many others were members to realise that they do not see today's situation as one in which their power has increased. They see it as one in which they have to create alliances because their power has decreased. The evidence for that is totally overwhelming. 
It is quite clear that the American strategy in respect of Asia and the West Pacific rests upon an alliance between three powers- the United States, Japan and China. Whatever happens in this part of the world, we cannot ignore those three facts. To sink into the view that all the conflicts and potential conflicts in the world today are in some way attributable to the postcolonial age is historical nonsense. I am surprised that the honourable member for Bonython, who was a very talented academic before he entered Parliament, should have slipped into that kind of argument. An analysis of the world situation is appropriate because it affects Australia. In all the analyses made by Brzezinski- I choose his because he is one of the immense talents behind  President  Carter- he stated that the alliance depended on the three powers to which I referred. He also indicated that it depended upon the support of a number of sub-imperial powers in the world. Those powers were, sensibly enough, places such as Zaire, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Indonesia, Mexico and a number of countries in Latin America, including Brazil. What Australia must be aware of is the simple fact that all the analyses made, both before Carter became  President  of the United States and subsequent to his election, especially since the China accord of late last year, have ignored Australia. That may be a wise strategy on the part of the United States. What I am saying is that we must take into account the reality that in this strategy we count for very little. I ask the House and the people of Australia to bear in mind that we count for very little 
Let me give an example. The defence treaty between the United States and Taiwan has been unilaterally abrogated by the United States with the appropriate notice. It was the right of the United States to do so. The words of that treaty are almost the same as the ingredients of the ANZUS Treaty. One can be abrogated as quickly and in the same manner as the other. Australia must be aware of this fact. It is not sufficient for the  President  of the United States to pat us on the shoulder and say that we count. We count very little. It is like offering a rotting carrot to a donkey. It contains very little sustenance, and Australia ought to be aware of that position. 
One or two other points that have been made by the Opposition need to be borne in mind. In relation to Vietnam, the decision by the Australian Government to cut off aid to Vietnam has been criticised very severely on several grounds. It was stated that by cutting off that aid we were reducing whatever leverage or bargaining power we might have in respect of Vietnam and her incursions in Indo-China- into what I call Cambodia but what these days all the clever people call Kampuchea. The reasons advanced for continuing aid to Vietnam need to be considered. A country promotes economic aid for several reasons- either to have influence in a particular nation or to aid economic development in that nation. In respect of Vietnam, it is quite clear that there has been a total alteration in the attitude of the Vietnamese Government towards its peasants. The words that can be read in Nan Danh, the words that have come from the leaders during 1978, sound very much like the words that were used in respect of the Kulaks and the Ukrainians in Russia during the 1920s and the period leading up to it. That helped to destroy the Russian economy for a long time. What is the purpose in giving economic aid if Vietnam is going to destroy one of the very important bases of its economy? That is wasting the very aid that is being given. The Vietnamese are expelling the Chinese middle class- a lot of their entrepreneurs and merchants. When that is put against their agricultural policy, if Australia were to give economic aid for the purpose of helping economic development, it would be wasted. 
The second point that needs to be borne in mind is, whether aid is given in order to bring about influence, and that is important. Should aid be given to a country which says quite clearly that it has supra-national ambitions and is on the point of carrying out those ambitions, and in fact was actually doing so in respect of Cambodia and Laos? 
That is in a wider situation. As usual, the honourable member for Perth is spot on. In terms of the two reasons for which one country gives aid to another, that is, economic development and the transmission of that to the people, or in order to have influence on its policies, neither one can be sustained in regard to Australia continuing its aid to Vietnam. I was very sorry to hear some members of the Opposition and their leaders continue to maintain that quite false and fallacious position. They have learned very little from the events of the 1920s and onwards. 
We are in a constant state of learning. In regard to China, a paragraph in the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  indicated that economic events in China do not necessarily mean that everything has altered, nor has it altered. Economic and trade affairs impinge upon foreign policy today much more than they did in the past. They have a greater influence now than they had in the past, merely because international trade has increased so much. But it would be a mistake to think that simply because a country is modernising its economy, ipso facto its foreign policy alters. It does not. Those two things can be quite different. Consider the case of Russia during the new economic program. Capital goods were required, modernisation was required, a price system was being talked about, a capacity to export was being talked about. Would anybody say now that that new economic program was anything other than an economic program? Would anybody say that it accompanied or could have caused an alteration in basic Russian domestic or foreign policy during the 1920s or the 1930s or the 1940s? Nobody in his right senses would say such a thing. I suggest that when one considers that point one has to make the distinction. It is an economic program; it is not a foreign policy. 
Very often when I consider China I ask myself what are the precise points in terms of foreign policy it has surrendered. It has not surrendered very much. In terms of North Korea versus South Korea, Deng Xiaoping has not retreated one centimetre from China's traditional support for North Korea vis-a-vis South Korea. In relation to Taiwan, China has not surrendered its aim to take Taiwan by force if it needs to. In respect of support for insurgency movements in IndoChina, Thailand and Malaysia, China was asked to desist from broadcasting support to the revolutionary groups in those countries. It has said that it will not do so and it has not. I hope that members of the House and the people will make the distinction between an economic program and an aim of foreign policy and weigh them in the balance one against the other. Also included in that balance is the simple fact that in this part of the world Australia has very few alliances of significance. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics does not give any foreign aid as such. That is another truth of which I hope the House and others will be reminded. 
During the few moments left to me I want to make an objective case for relations between Australia and Taiwan because I think they are important. I believe that we ought to maintain relationships with as many countries as possible. We ought not to desist from them if they can be of any value to this nation. After the recognition of Peking in late 1972 the former Government, in a most obsequious manner- more obsequious than almost any other country in the worldwithdrew recognition of Taiwan. That was a foolish and stupid action and it has hindered Australian trade. It has hindered our international current account, which is our greatest economic problem. I suggest that Australia should have a mission in Taiwan in the same way as Japan, the United States, the Philippines and Thailand have missions. Each of those countries has a mission in Taiwan supported by public funds. In some cases they have ex-ambassadors who are retired merely for the period that they happen to be in Taiwan. Once they leave Taiwan they are put on the active list again without any loss of rights. The Japanese have done that for years and the United States is going to do it. 
That is the point I am coming to. Our Government should do it, but it is difficult to overcome the quite obsequious manner in which diplomatic recognition was extended to Peking in late 1972 and early 1973 -a much more obsequious manner than that of any other nation. The United States is going to have a mission in Taiwan, with the same public funding that applied to its previous diplomatic mission. It is going to have a similar number of personnel and it may even have its diplomatic personnel in charge, as it did in the past. Such a mission will aid United States trade and cultural relations. I suggest that Australia ought to be able to handle its affairs in the way that it wishes, that is, for its own benefit and not to suit the requirements of another nation. I do not believe for one moment that mainland China would put an embargo on what we ought to be able to do legitimately. Were she to put on an embargo we would ask, quite legitimately, why we had been singled out for attempted intimidation. I do not believe that China would do that, and certainly it is not in a position to do that today. 
I know that you are interested in these matters,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I suggest that Australia has to take account of the realities of the world, of the new American strategy in Asia, and realise that we are far more on our own than we have ever been. We should build bridges wherever we can. If they are political bridges we should build them. If they are economic and trade bridges we should build them when we can. In respect of that last matter, I would like to make two points. Taiwan must be considered, and guidelines ought to be drawn up in respect of the trade relationships now being pursued between Australia and China. If that course is followed this country will achieve the significance it deserves. If that course is adopted we will not be burying our heads in the sand. We can take account of a situation which we have interpreted for ourselves but which above all we do not see as a whole multitude of single unconnected instances. World politics and foreign policy have never gone according to those precepts. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-We are engaged in a cognate debate embracing both the ministerial statement on the Prices Justification Tribunal of 18 October last year and the Prices Justification Tribunal Amendment Bill. Towards the end of this debate a Minister will move that the Prices Justification Amendment Bill be referred to a legislation committee. Under those circumstances, I do not intend to take up a lot of the time of the House in debating the Bill now. We will have another go at it- if I may use that term- in the legislation committee stage and, subsequent to those considerations, we will be able to make further comment on the Bill in this House. But I make one or two points which I think it is appropriate for me to make. When certain people- for example, members of the Opposition- criticise the Prices Justification Amendment Bill, one ought not to allow that criticism to be made without looking at the history of the people or the party making the criticism. It is only fair that this should be done. I want to go over the history of the Prices Justification Tribunal for a few minutes. I do not want to talk for more than 10 minutes. 
The Prices Justification Act was brought into operation in 1973. After that it went through a number of turbulent periods, especially under the Labor Government. The course of the considerations and decisions of the Prices Justification Tribunal was changed very radically indeed. Therefore, when honourable members opposite come into this House and say that they want stability with respect to the Tribunal, that they want certainty as to its decisions and that they want little alteration to what has applied in the past I ask those honourable members to look a little further into the past than one or two years ago. I ask them to look at what happened under their Administration. The Prices Justification Bill was brought into this House with enormous fanfare. It was to be the principal means whereby the inflation rate and the price increase part of the inflation rate were to be determined. Encouraged by that, the Tribunal operated in a particular way until the end of 1974. So those honourable members who criticise the Tribunal ought to face up to certain facts about what happened in the past. They see only virtue in forgetting the past and only give advice when looking at the future. 
To illustrate this point, I divide the operation of the Tribunal into two periods. I think it is appropriate for me to do so. The first I call the vindictive period, which extended from the inception of the Tribunal to the end of 1 974. It was the time during which any price increase proposed by a corporation was to be bashed down. All proposed increases were considered to be unjustified. Recollect the concern that spread around the country. The Tribunal said: Tariffs have been cut by 25 per cent. Wage costs went up enormously during the 1973-74 year. Therefore we want to see those reduced trade barrier costs transmitted into prices. There was a very significant and very successful attempt to bash industry with regard to legitimate price rises. But what was forgotten all the time was simply that the Prices Justification Tribunal only ever applied its concern to a portion of the Australian economic system. It applied itself to corporations. Partnerships and unincorporated enterprises were not involved. State enterprises were not involved. The cost of money was not involved. Interest rates were not involved during that period. Statutory corporations were not involved with respect to their price rises. 
It has to be acknowledged that during the first 18 months the Tribunal's operation was very largely a propaganda exercise. It was a propaganda exercise that was totally inappropriate because industry was winding down; it had lost all confidence. Jobs were being lost at the greatest rate that they had ever been lost, except during the 1944-45 period. So that was the method of operation of the Prices Justification Tribunal during its first 18 months. Those who now criticise the Government did not raise a whimper, did not say a word during that time. It was propaganda, and when I think of propaganda I can think only of Kingsley Martin's definition that you cannot propagate propaganda unless you have the proper geese. That was the way in which the Australian electorate was looked at then and the propaganda was the so-called virtues of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Then what happened? Things went down, so towards the end of 1974 the Prime Minister at the time wrote to the Tribunal and asked it basically to reverse its processes. It had made a mistake. It is much easier to wreck than to build up, so the Government asked the Tribunal to take into account profitability, et cetera. From the end of 1974, on the advice of the Prime Minister, the Tribunal abruptly changed course. What stability do we see in that arrangement? What stability do we see in that set of circumstances? People come here and say that the notification procedure has been altered, that notifications do not have to be made in the same quantum as before, and that that is an enormous change. I ask them to look back a few years to the far more significant changes which resulted from the uncertainty that prevailed during the first years of operation of the Prices Justification Tribunal. We had the vindictive period and then the repentant period of the Tribunal's operation. 
Let me deal with one other point, that is, the argument with respect to wages. It is said that because an Arbitration Commission adjudicates on wages, ipso facto it is appropriate that a Prices Justification Tribunal adjudicates on prices. In relation to that argument, as stated by the then Government in July 1973, one should know that trade barriers and the re-allocation of resources in industry have a far greater effect on prices than does an attempt at prices justification or price control. That has always been the case. Let me state the argument again: The Arbitration Commission deals with wages, therefore a Prices Justification Tribunal has to deal with prices. There is just one error in that proposition. When an Arbitration Commission or a State commission adjudicates on wages it guarantees that every person in employment will have wages of a certain size, that it will be illegal for those wages to be below a certain size, no matter to what award or wage they apply. But when a Prices Justification Tribunal adjudicates with respect to prices there is no guarantee as to profitability. There is no guarantee that a firm is going to continue in operation. There is no guarantee that that firm will not go out of business. 
To try to make the equation that the Arbitration Commission considers wages, therefore a Prices Justification Tribunal has to consider prices, is to forget the nature of the Australian economy with which we deal, to forget that there is no equation in that kind of argument. Those who propose that kind of argument have been caught up in some of their own propaganda. Wages do have an effect on costs. That is one of the factors that has an effect on costs, and an Arbitration Commission gives guarantees as to wages. In that regard, one has to look only at the migration of the textile industry throughout the world, and this is the unstated assumption of the Opposition's argument which it dare not face. The textile industry throughout the world is in the process of migrating from countries which have low costs to countries which have lower costs. Japan built up her surpluses through the textile industry but her pre-eminence is in the process of being taken over by Korea and Taiwan. As those countries build up their surpluses and their costs rise, they are in the process of being taken over by the Philippines and Thailand. I have no doubt that as they build up their surpluses the industry will migrate further to southern India. That fact, which is an unstated assumption of what we talk about in terms of the Arbitration Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal, ought to be examined by those who criticise the present procedures. 
I merely want to mention one or two points made by the Minister, and I will be exploring these in the legislation committee. The Tribunal is going to be able to engage in public inquiry measures of a wider nature than it does now. The other principal provision of this Bill relates to the alteration of" the notification process. At page 3 of the Minister's second reading speech he said: 
Arising from its surveillance of prices, the PJT will be able, at any time, to recommend a public inquiry into any company or group of companies. 
That also means that consumers can write in and request an inquiry. It means that a request for an inquiry can come from this place. When I look at the number of motions on the Notice Paper, I cannot be persuaded that members of parliament will be reluctant to indicate that there ought to be an inquiry into a particular company or group of companies. So those procedures can continue, but perhaps in a rather more orderly manner. In this process a pre-inquiry procedure will be established in respect of prices justification inquiries when they are initiated by the Prices Justification Tribunal. This pre-inquiry process itself can be a virtue because the process has to be notified in the Gazette. Under proposed clause 10 of the Bill, investigations have to be made as to the circumstances of a pre-inquiry process and, after due investigation, that process can either proceed or be stopped short. That is the advantage that can occur in the circumstances. The motor vehicle spare parts inquiry went on for about six months and caused a lot of hurt in the industry. Some of it was justified; a lot of it was unjustified. The terms of reference were widened by the Minister at the time, and I understand that the New South Wales Government is continuing with an inquiry relating to the motor vehicle spare parts industry. 
This process is a sensible one. It enables the Prices Justification Tribunal to take an initial look. In terms of the processes, the House of Representatives Committee on Expenditure, which is the only committee that has a continuing role in this respect, adopts the same principle. If we want to look at a particular aspect of government activity for which expenditure is appropriate, we examine and evaluate it for some months and then decide whether or not to proceed further. There have been cases in which you have been involved,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  when after an initial long examination period it was decided not to proceed further with an inquiry. This is a commonsense procedure which I hope the House will have the good sense to applaud. I turn now to page 5 of the Minister's speech, and I ask him to clarify this point: 
A provision is included in the Bill to allow the Minister to issue general directions to the PJT as to any matter which should be given special consideration by it in the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers. This provision will ensure that, notwithstanding its statutory independence to arrive at its own findings in particular cases, the Tribunal's operations will be placed within the framework of Government policy. 
I merely ask the Minister what he really means by that. What Government policies does he have in mind? I am not disputing that there are appropriate circumstances. 
-It is a fair question to ask, and it would be answered very fairly too. A set of particular economic circumstances may be developing with a calculated rate of growth of demand in an industry which would cause an inquiry to be altered. Tariff processes may be developed at a particular time. There may be exchange rate alterations on which a Minister could not indicate his intentions but which might cause the Government to consider that an appropriate inquiry ought not to proceed. It is unfair to suggest, as has been suggested, that that power and the other power of the Minister means that the Government would engage in carpetbagging or logrolling. I am not suggesting anything of that kind. But I hope the Minister can elucidate the general circumstances under which the framework of Government policy would be judged in relation to an inquiry by the Prices Justification Tribunal. There is one other point to which I refer and it is found in the second reading speech of the Minister. It states: 
In this regard the PJT will undertake a program of inquiries into prices within industries which are major component groups of the consumer price index or which have a significant impact upon the level of prices in other industries. 
Will the Minister explain what he means by that? I could give some examples but I know that they would not be appropriate. One recollects that in the past when some State governments utilised price control powers very widely, they often kept the prices of particular items down so that an automatic cost of living adjustment in terms of wages would not occur. That was when the old C series index had far less items in it than has the consumer price index at present. It was in the days when potatoes, meat and onions were of far greater weight in that index than they would be in the consumer price index. Will the Minister indicate what he has in mind in this respect? It would be appropriate to do so in order to alleviate the difficulties of those who depend on inflationary indices to determine what is happening with respect to the Australian economy. 
I have spoken longer than I intended. Further details can be explored in the legislation committee hearing. The Prices Justification Tribunal ought to be used wisely. It can help industry and if industry has to be resuscitated to develop as quickly as possible so as to have a pulling effect on employment, then the PJT in this form may be a small price to pay in order to have a greater rate of growth of demand for labour. Above all we ought not to return to the previous days in which the Prices Justification Tribunal was used as a rapier to both lacerate, scarify and unnecessarily hurt the corporate sector of the economy. It is important and it needs to be important. But above all one cannot make a judgment upon what these proposals are now without remembering the incredible about-change which occurred during the initial years of the operation of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
-When Madam Chen Muhua, a Chinese Deputy Prime Minister, attended a Press conference in Canberra last Wednesday week she was asked a very important question by a very distinguished member of the Press Gallery, Max Hawkins. The question she was asked, which was not reported in the Press, was: As China is having difficulty with respect to the payment of her overseas loans and overseas trade, what arrangements does she intend to make in relation to her modernisation program? The answer she gave consisted of three parts. Firstly, she indicated that China intended to engage in compensatory trade, which meant that those countries selling goods or technology to China would be expected to buy back the products resulting from the manufacturing process in China. Secondly, she expected that payment would be made by means of the export of non-ferrous metals. Thirdly, she expected that some of the loans would carry with them either a reduced interest rate or payment holidays. 
All of these propositions are very important because they concern Australia. Australia has been invited and induced to engage in increased trade with China. Therefore, I suggest that a statement should be made setting out the conditions of trade between Australia and China as part of her modernisation program. I will illustrate this point very briefly. China is reported to be negotiating overseas loans amounting to between $30,000m and $40,000m. She has foreign currency to the extent of about $4,500m. Quite clearly that amount of foreign exchange will not pay for that level of loan or the level of trade which she proposes to undertake. There are already reports that China is proceeding very slowly with negotiating arrangements for paying back money invested in steel making and in many other overseas investments in China. 
For example, evidence already exists that she has not sufficient oil with which to pay for investments in China. I cite one example. The British have been exporting underground coal technology for China's mines. The first proposal was that Britain ought to buy back some of the coal which would be developed as a result of the use of that technology in China. The British Government made it quite clear that that would not happen. But that indicates the extend of the problem which China has and will have in meeting a number of her commitments. For example, Thailand wanted to negotiate for oil in return for increased trade with China. The Thai Prime Minister stated in Moscow very recently that the oil from China is not available to pay for Thai exports to China. 
Therefore, I suggest that a statement ought to be made by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  setting out the terms of trade between Australia and China as dictated by China's lack of foreign exchange appropriate to the amount of trade that she desires for her modernisation program. That statement ought to include several elements. It ought to indicate the goods that would be accepted back by Australia by way of compensatory trade. Unless that statement detailed the goods that would be accepted back, those goods could intercept goods that are normally transacted between other nations- for example, the Association of South East Asian Nations- and Australia. So the direction of that trade would help to determine Australia's foreign policy to the disadvantage of nations already trading with us. Secondly, the prices for goods engaged by means of barter or compensatory trade ought to be indicated. They are not the same as prices nominated for goods in normal multi-lateral trade. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Trade and Resources should indicate also the way in which the new arrangement will fit into Australia's foreign policy. Bilaterialism in trade has always been a means whereby the foreign policies of the countries in partnership have been determined by the events in the recipient country. Bilaterialism in terms of Australia's foreign trade should be looked at very carefully because it can help to determine the direction of Australia's foreign policy under the guise of being a boost to our own trade. The British Minister,  Mr Varley,  who has recently been in China, will issue a statement on the nature of Britain's trading agreement with China in view of the fact that Australia has played a leading part in encouraging and in helping the modernisation program in China. A similar process ought to be undertaken in this country as soon as possible. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister or the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it fair that a member in this House should be described by his or her religion? Is he aware that this has been done several times recently by Australian Broadcasting Commission journalists from Canberra? I am not referring to the parliamentary broadcasts themselves. The first example was by Duncan Fairwealher this morning when he referred to the honourable member for Grayndler in the 
ABC news as a 'Catholic Labor man'. The second was by Miss Julie Flynn on  PM  referring to Catholic Labor men' in regard to the Lusher motion to be debated later today. I ask: Will he do what he can to request the ABC to ask its journalists to cease this kind of practice forthwith? 
-At 5.35 this afternoon the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  accompanied by a number of other Ministers and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  came into the House and read a statement to the House on behalf of this Government scarifying the New South Wales Government for wanting to introduce a 3714-hour week for certain electrical power workers in that State. He made a number of very important statements. He stated that appropriate reparative action would be taken and that there would be reprisals on account of that action. What he did had important implications for this debate, too. The New South Wales Government has taken action, rightly or wrongly, which is within its legislative competence. It is within its industrial powers so to do. A statement was made by one of its Ministers about something applicable to its workers. The Commonwealth Government has made it quite clear that it will do everything it can to make the consequences of that action known, not only to electricity users in New South Wales but also to the rest of Australia. 
This Government did not hold to the principle outlined in the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  and the amendment moved by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  to the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  namely, that whatever is legal in a State will be sanctified by the Commonwealth. Two of the amendments proposed to the original motion state that there will not be support for certain procedures unless those procedures are performed in accordance with the law of a State or territory. It was appropriate for the Commonwealth to make clear its intention to take reprisals or to take appropriate action in order that the cost of electricity was made known to the people of New South Wales but not in order to protect the lives of the unborn in some of the States of Australia. That is a magnificent example of double standards. Those double standards are inherent in a number of amendments that have been proposed in this debate and in a number of the speeches which have been made in support of the present law as it operates, in fact, in New South Wales and Victoria. 
That is not nonsense because I read from the latter part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Macarthur, and his amendment seeks to have it both ways. So it is a schizophrenic attitude; it is one of double standards, and it ought to be seen as being one of double standards. If I need no other reason for doing so, I make it clear to the House that I will not be supporting the amendment of the honourable member for McMillan or the amendment of the honourable member for Macarthur. They are totally inappropriate. 
When did all this start? I propose to have a look at the law. This started in August 1970. On that occasion  Mr Whitlam,  later to be Prime Minister, when speaking to the Federal Labor Women's Conference in Brisbane, made it clear that he supported abortion on request. I do not argue with that. He pinned his flag to the mast. He made it clear what his beliefs were, and he did that before he got into power as well as after he was in power. But others did not pin their flags to the mast. We now know from the compendium of evidence which has been produced in this Parliament today and yesterday that in some States of Australia there is effective abortion on demand and abortion on request. We should not look at the hard cases; we should look at the 20,000 or so people who have abortions in Victoria. At least I can say that  Mr Whitlam,  the former Prime Minister, was honest. We knew his beliefs. Others have perpetrated the same actions by stealth, and it ought to be known that they have done it by stealth. Abortions on demand have certainly operated in New South Wales and in Victoria, and South Australia was honest enough to indicate what its actions were 10 years ago. 
All that is proposed effectively by the Lusher motion is to say that this Parliament in 1973 said that it did not support and it would not support abortion on demand or on request. His motion asks that that resolution accompany the moral example which this Parliament must set in relation to the transfer of funds for which this Parliament is responsible. That is a fair and reasonable proposition. 
I was fascinated by the fact that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart),  who was the third  speaker  in this debate, tabled a joint opinion from counsel in Sydney.  Mr Traill  and  Mr McCarthy  are two respected counsel. Not one lawyer who has spoken in this debate has sought to dispute that opinion, and that opinion went to the heart of the doctrine of necessity. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  who spoke a little earlier this evening did not for one moment dispute the opinion of counsel which he has had for a day and a half. I ask: Why have no lawyers disputed that opinion? I can only come to the conclusion that it is indisputable. But what does it say and what does the doctrine of necessity on which the so-called Menhennitt rule rests actually say? In his ruling Menhennitt made his view on the doctrine of necessity quite clear. He said: 
It appears to me that necessity is the appropriate principle to apply, which means that justification for the action rests on principles other than that of the precise law to which it pertains. 
That goes to the heart of the matter. In other words, if I take out what I see as the heart of that ruling, he was saying this: The person committing the abortion is 'innocent if he honestly believed on reasonable grounds that the act done by him was, in the circumstances, proportionate to the need to preserve the woman from danger to her physical and mental health'. The first part of the ruling is proportionate to the second part, but where the first part refers to the death of an unborn child, nothing that has been proposed should be put on the scales opposite that. I have listened to the debate for a day and a half and I have noticed that not one person who has indicated support for the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan- that is the important one- has said that there are circumstances in which an abortion will not occur. Nobody has said that the abortion will be illegal if the woman is wealthy, or if she is in the situation of having very few children, no children or one child. By a series of pin-pricking measures and by the outlining of a series of extraordinary situations, honourable members have sought to open the gateway and to allow total abortion on demand. 
At least there are people who have always held that point of view. I respect my good friend, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  who has always held that point of view, and he has held it honestly. The former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  held that view, and held it honestly. Other honourable members who have spoken in the debate hold that view, and hold it honestly. However, I ask those honourable members who have not said that they support that view to examine what they are doing. We know what this doctrine of necessity means as it applies in Victoria. Victoria is an abortion on demand State. It is more liberal than South Australia. But what would be the situation were that doctrine to apply? Let us go back in time to some of the famous events which have occurred since World War II. If that doctrine were to apply, there would have been no Nuremburg war crimes trials; it would have been an implicit defence for a person who perpetrated some of those crimes to point to the proportionate and serious disadvantage to be visited upon him were he not to obey his superior commanders. That was not accepted. There would have been no Japanese war crimes trials if the doctrine of necessity, the doctrine of proportionate disadvantage, applied. 
Let us go to an appropriate homely example. Let us take the case of a half a dozen young men joining in a gang rape and their being arraigned before the court. One of them says: 'Your Honour, if I had not joined in what was being done I would have suffered serious disadvantage at the hands of my colleagues'. In his own terminology, he would have said: 'I may have been belted up'. That is the doctrine of necessity. Would that doctrine be held seriously by any fair minded man? Of course it would not, and no court would hold it to be so; courts do not hold it to be so. But that is the doctrine which has been sanctified by those who say that the present situation deserves the financial and moral support of the Commonwealth. The Levine ruling in New South Wales has merely widened the application of the Menhennitt doctrine. So I ask the House to consider the multitude of social and sociological facts that have been put before it in the last day and a half, but also to consider the validity of the so-called ruling which has brought about the whole present unhappy situation. 
I turn to one or two of the matters contained in the amendments which have been proposed. First of all, I turn to the amendment of the honourable member for Mitchell. I cannot support it and I will not support it. I ask honourable members to look at the last several lines of that amendment. 
-To use the word 'hypocritical' is putting a frame of mind. It may be a genuine mistake, but I say it is wrong. It makes the point that the abortion will occur and can occur. The amendment reads in part:   . . (b) the mother has been subject to disease or physical conditions which could reasonably be expected to result in serious deformity . . . 
What do the words 'physical conditions' really mean? They are not denned. This is a gateway through which one could drive anything one liked. Many houses in Queensland are infested with cockroaches. Insecticides are used to control this pest which breeds rapidly in a tropical climate. A woman in the second month of pregnancy could use a strong insecticide on these pests. She could inhale the insecticide for a considerable time in a saturation atmosphere. Some would claim that these physical conditions could result in a deformity. 
I will give another example. Insecticides are often sprayed by air on cane farms. People on the ground are often covered by this insecticide. According to evidence from some people at southern universities as well as the Queensland Institute of Technology the unborn babies of women who are subjected to the insecticide are liable to deformity. Although they may wash as soon as possible after contact with the spray, the risk still remains. Both of these conditions would apply to the physical conditions nominated in the amendment. The absurdity of the amendment has only to be stated to be immediately evident. I turn now to the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  which states:  this House is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Government should not pay any medical benefits for or in relation to the termination of pregnancy unless the procedure is performed in accordance with the law of a State or Territory'. 
Nowhere else does the Commonwealth hand over resources unless it has determined the conditions under which the resources will be used. This is the position in respect of education, health, hospitals and so on, but in this case there is to be an exception. This practice can be open slather in some States and not in others. There is a curious wedding to the principles of a quite distorted federalism- and it is a distorted federalism. I am afraid I find myself unwilling to support either motion. I do not intend to support either motion. The honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has circulated an amendment which incorporates a number of other amendments. 
During the minute left to me in this debate I want to make it quite clear that in principle I will support the Lusher motion. I will support the amendment of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde).  I will vote accordingly. I will vote against those amendments that I have indicated deserve to be voted against. I ask the House in considering the rest of the debate to go to the heart of the matter which is the validity of the Menhennitt ruling because that is the reason for this whole debate. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the House congratulates the Government that information has been made available to the Public Works Committee members of a work known to the Department of Construction and of which the Department of Transport has given intention to seek Government support in July-August 1979 known as Pan I of Stage I of Brisbane Airport Construction. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  will second that motion. 
-I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 9 I shall move: 
That this House, having regard to the requirements of Australian Federalism that States should within the total economic program be responsible for their own affairs and that the effects of Commonwealth policies should fall as fairly as possible on the various States, requests: 
1 ) The Commonwealth to monitor closely the economic experience of the States so that they share fairly the experiences of strong economic growth as well as economic restraint; 
to examine closely the effects of the four periods of economic restraint since World War II, and 
) to consider and make available the effects of all forms of Commonwealth intervention, including tariffs, quotas, bounties and price support systems on the economies of those States, and 
ensure that these are discussed quantitatively at the next Premiers' Conference and Loan Council so that domestic economic experience in the States reflects their respective values of output. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck). 
-On behalf of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure I present the report of the Committee entitled 'Parliament and Public Expenditure', together with the minutes and transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave-This report is a product of its time. It is a report that could not have been written, even three years ago, when the Parliament had a limited perception of its role in the public expenditure process. This report simply had to be written today because of the growing concern that the elected Parliament is a weak and weakening institution.. It is a report that had to be written, now that talk of parliamentary reform is in the air, so as to provide a sharper focus for some of the debate and discussion that will inevitably take place. With the indulgence of the House, may I assert that it is a report that could only have been written by the House's own committee of financial scrutiny, a committee which I am exceedingly proud to chair. 
Honourable members- Hear, hear! 
-It has given a number of very good Ministers to the House, too. In preparing this report committee members were acutely conscious of the paramount need of readability; to produce a report that states its case succinctly and briefly. For those interested in a short summary, however, we have provided the briefest of summaries and, in a unique way. 
The report is summarised effectively in the diagram on the cover. This diagram, produced in greater detail on page 9, tells the story; one of limited participation by the Parliament in the public expenditure process. The report advocates an enhanced role for the Parliament in this process. Dominating the report like a drumbeat is the message that increased participation requires new parliamentary procedures, and better information. We have recommended that this report be debated during the current autumn sittings of the Parliament. The issues and matters raised are far too important for the Government to respond to without the Parliament being given an opportunity to influence that response. I envisage a debate in the House of at least three hours' duration with each  speaker  allowed a maximum of 10 minutes in order to allow many members to participate. 
The report and its recommendations should provide a focal point for debate. Chapter 2, which describes the public expenditure process, is the springboard from which we examine the means by which the Parliament can influence Budget formulation. We make the valid point in the third Chapter, entitled 'The Role of Parliament', (i) Influencing Budget Formulation- that Budget estimates information is both too late and too early. It is far too late to influence this year's Budget; and it is much too early to influence the next one. We have asked the Government to- inform the Parliament of the fate of the recommendations on forward estimates in the report of the Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration; and to provide the Parliament with relevant information for a regular debate in the autumn sittings on expenditure patterns and priorities. 
The fourth and last Chapter, entitled 'The Role of Parliament: (ii) Information Needs for Increased Scrutiny' also discusses information needs; the need for the Parliament to receive program statements. Most of the information the Parliament receives is related to expenditure inputs; for example, salaries, overtime and office requisites. Such a presentation was relevant in an era when the Commonwealth operated administrative-type departments. It is less relevant today because of the increased scope of government expenditure which is directed at assisting individuals or organisations; for example, health, education, social security and welfare programs. There are more than 1,000 separate public sector programs and the Parliament should be told of their objectives, that is, their purposes; total costs, that is, how much is spent; and output/effectiveness, that is, results. To assist honourable members in understanding what is required the Committee has provided an example of a program statement at page 22 of the report. Appropriate recommendations follow. The need for program statements has been recognised by several departments because of their value in establishing expenditure priorities. What I have described is the kernel, the embryo or the essence of the report. Honourable members will be interested also in Appendix I which is a description of the Budget process. Because of the importance the Expenditure Committee attaches to this report it makes the offer to brief all honourable members on its meaning and purpose if this is what they want. In preparing this report the Committee has considered the reality of the relationship between the Parliament and the Executive. The reality is that the Parliament does not govern; often, the Executive governs. But it does and should do so through the Parliament. When we talk of increasing the level of Parliament's participation in the public expenditure process it is necessary- indeed, it is vital- to have a clear idea of what this means. Talk of parliamentary control of expenditure always strikes a responsive chord. The conventional wisdom refers to the Parliament exercising the 'power of the purse' over governments. This is correct in a constitutional sense. But this fact has to be tempered by reality, the reality that the Parliament has not formulated an approach to control, the reality that under the Westminster system the governing party is in a majority which has a vested interest in supporting the proposals of the Executive; and the reality that it is thus difficult to see how the House can control a situation when its own majority has to support the Executive. . 
-Yes. The conclusion the Committee has reached is inescapable: Parliamentary control of expenditure is a myth. Attempts to revive it are attempts to 'resurrect a corpse that never lived '. Therefore, it quotes with obvious approval the words of the late  Sir Henry  d'Avigdor-Goldsmid, a former  chairman  of the United Kingdom Expenditure Committee: 
As in the fable of the Emperor's new clothes, parliamentary control of expenditure is a myth that all concerned have every reason to foster. 
These may be hard words, but I must emphasise once again that the report seeks a greater role for the Parliament to influence expenditure decisions and not to control them. The recommendations that deal with information needs are not a shopping list. They have been carefully thought out and represent what the Committee considers to be reasonable in the current circumstances. It trusts and expects them to be treated in this way by the Government. I must thank all the members of the Committee for the effort put into the inquiry. Altogether the Committees appointed in the 30th and 3 1st Parliaments held one in camera hearing, on evidence subsequently published, seven public hearings and twenty private meetings. This in itself indicates the time and effort put in by the Committee. Everyone helped. I and the Committee are indeed grateful to have as  Deputy Chairman  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Frank Stewart).  Only space and time prevents me from thanking each member individually. The report contains an enormous contribution from each member of the Committee. 
I end on the following note. It is impossible for the Parliament to examine properly major decisions involving thousands of millions of dollars of taxpayers' money without the detailed examination of facts and arguments. Therefore, to some extent parliamentary processes must be designed to enable the House, its committees or its individual members to seek and obtain relevant information. If the price of liberty is eternal vigilance, then the price of parliamentary democracy is eternal scrutiny. The ever-increasing extent, power and complexity of government requires that that scrutiny be more and better informed. We consider that this report will be useful for many years as a guide to the Parliament and as a significant manifesto for its rational development. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-by leave-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Expenditure, I thank the House for the opportunity to comment on the Government's response to the Committee's report on the Defence Service Homes Scheme. This response is in accordance with the statement made to the House on 24 
November 1978. For reasons of time, I will seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the specific comments of the Committee. 
The Committee's report was tabled on 1 June 1978. The Government's response was made within the six month period the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stipulated and we thank the Government for its promptness. Honourable members might recall that the ministerial statement was made by the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)-  the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  being overseas at that time- in the small hours of 24 November 1978. 
There are some parts of the response which do not accept the Committee's recommendations and which we do not disagree with. They are two minor recommendations. But we are both disappointed and disturbed, and a little irritated, by the bulk ofthe response. The Committee put in a lot of effort to state its case supported by a process of detailed reasoning and argument. The response often rejects recommendations by virtually ignoring the arguments that support the recommendations. Instead there is a sprinkling of vague words and phrases. We are told that something cannot be accepted 'as a matter of principle ' when the principle is not evident and is not enunciated. We are told that a conclusion has been reached 'on balance' when nothing has been weighed up. We are also told a position reached is 'for the time being', when once again temporariness is not explained. 
We are disturbed at the quality of advice given. The tone of the response concerns us, because it tends to belittle the work of this Committee. We are irritated that the response has chosen to ignore and therefore not to give the Committee credit for initiating the work that will reduce charges of the Australian Postal Commission by over $350,000 this year. 
Our major disappointments are in respect of three of the recommendations in the report. The first is the optional cash grant. The Government rejected this recommendation mainly because it was not prepared to fix a level of grant and instead gave a range of grants. We are disappointed that the Government was not prepared to grasp the nettle because, in our view, the optional cash grant provided the opportunity for converting significant administrative expenses into benefits for recipients and advantages for taxpayers. 
The response also said that a grant of $7,000 would be needed if an eligible person who gets the present concessional interest loan was not to be disadvantaged. The implication is that a person who gets a smaller cash grant would be disadvantaged. This conclusion is very misleading. It ignores the criteria we had specified in paragraph 77 of our report. It ignores our argument that the optional cash grant will eliminate the costs of bridging finance. It ignores the other argument that a cash grant, by giving the eligible person a greater equity in the property he proposes to purchase, would enable him to by-pass the high interest rate, short repayment period of finance companies and thus give him a considerably reduced monthly repayment. The refusal to accept the cash grant proposition is, although disappointing, understandable. What was at stake was the dissolution, in the long term, of a bureaucratic empire. The Deputy-Editor of The  Economist  said in the 23 December 1978 issue when referring to the growth of public sector imperialism: 
Monks don 't dissolve monasteries. 
In other words, a bureaucracy does not try to put itself out of business. 
The next recommendation which has a disappointing response is that on computers. Without giving too much detail, which appears later in the statement, our concern was with improving efficiency in the future. The response said that the Government was satisfied with the past. But of all the responses, the one relating to the commission charged by the Australian Postal Commission is the poorest. For the information of honourable members, the Australian Postal Commission charged the Defence Service Homes Corporation a commission of 2.3 lc in the dollar for collecting repayments from borrowers. We examined a series of alternatives and recommended a cost-effectiveness study. The Government rejected this recommendation. It said it endorsed the user-pay principle, to which we had not referred. It said that if the APC system were withdrawn or altered, difficulties would arise for many borrowers. No explanation was offered. Having said this and only this, the response concluded that 'on balance' et cetera. It said 'on balance ' when nothing had been weighed up. 
What has disturbed the Committee, however, is what the response fails to say. We have found out that the Corporation has subsequently negotiated the following new rates with the Postal Commission: From 1 July 1978 to 30 November 1978, 2.13 percent; and from 1 December 1978 onwards, 1.76 per cent. We do not know when agreement was reached, but understand that the new rates are to be applied retrospectively. The rate of 1.76 per cent is lower than any rate from 1974 onwards. This rate when applied to a full  year will realise savings of over $350,000 a year. This lower rate is still far too high. 
The Committee is of the opinion that it initiated work in this area. The evidence of the Secretary of the Department of Veterans' Affairs provides conclusive support for this point of view. On 10 April 1978, when questioned about alternatives to the Australian Postal Commission system- transcript page 273- he said: 
I will certainly be pursuing this. I did not know about the arrangement before it was brought to my attention through this Committee. 
The response's failure to recognise the contribution of the Committee is surprising. Whether accidental or not, the effect is the same: The lack of recognition of the worth of parliamentary scrutiny. When introducing the motion to establish the Expenditure Committee on 8 April 1976, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
The Expenditure Committee will greatly improve the capacity of this House to scrutinise public expenditure and improve Parliament's capacity to act as an able and effective watchdog over the affairs of the Government. 
When speaking during the special adjournment debate on 8 November 1977, he said: 
The committee had been in operation scarcely a year but the value of its work is already being seen. 
Such noble hopes and sentiments run the risk of being debased if responses are not adequate, for watchdogs would have neither bark nor bite; and in the process, accountability to the  Parliament  would have taken yet another step backwards. I now seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the remainder of the statement of the Committee. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Recommendation 1 (paragraph 55 of the Report) sought the appointment of a suitably qualified person to assess the relative effectiveness of programs designed to attract persons into and retain them in the Services. The Government rejected this recommendation for the time being because of the costs and the likelihood of inconclusive results. 
The Committee recognises that it should have obtained the views of the Department of Defence on this matter before deciding on the appropriateness of the recommendation. 
Recommendation 2 asked for the objectives of DSHS to be defined and explained to the Parliament. The Government has defined the current objectives of DSHS (House of Representatives Debates, 23-24 November 1978, page 3388). Although there is no explanation why the objectives are tied to home ownership the Committee is pleased that the objectives have been redefined. 
Recommendation 3 called for a change in the long title of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918 to read as follows: An Act to assist eligible people to acquire a residential dwelling. The Government said it was not prepared to accept the longer title proposed by the Committee but agreed that 'this technical issue' might be taken up with Parliamentary Counsel on the next occasion amending legislation is drafted. 
The recommendation is a minor one. It is surprising that the Government has not acknowledged the need for the long title to be changed, so as to reflect the fact that DSHS has been changed significantly since 1 9 1 8. On reflection we must agree with the Minister Assisting the Minister for Veterans' Affairs who said the term 'residential dwelling' is not as appropriate as the word 'home' (House of Representatives Debates, 23-24 November 1978, page 3396). 
The central recommendation in the Report is Recommendation 4. The next three (Recommendations 5 to 7) are consequential to the fourth recommendation, which gave eligible persons a choice between a concessional interest loan and a cash grant (hence the term 'optional cash grant'). 
Eligible persons receive a housing loan at concessional interest rates and with the growth in the numbers receiving the loan has been corresponding growth in administration costs which now total over $16m. The concessional interest can be capitalised over the life of the loan and given as a cash grant. Since administration costs are minimal under an optional cash grant scheme this scheme, if successful, offers the elimination of most of the administrative costs. The Committee examined the feasibility of the optional cost grant against two basic criteria, namely whether the grant would- cost more than the concessional interest loan; and be attractive to at least some eligible persons. 
The cash grant equivalent to a $15,000 loan at concessional interest rates was calculated at between $4,500 and $5,000, these figures reflecting long-term bond rates of 7.5 per cent and 8.0 per cent respectively. The Committee estimated some savings in administration costs of $500 on applications, thus making the total grant between $5,000 and $5,500. The Committee recognised that some of this figuring is based on broad judgments but emphasised that the optional cash grant provides governments and the Par.liament with the opportunity of converting significant administration costs into benefits for recipients and savings for taxpayers. 
We next examined whether the optional cash grant would be attractive to at least some eligible persons. 
Let me emphasise that being optional it need not be attractive to all eligible persons. 
Based on a grant of $5,500 several conclusions were drawn. First the Committee said the grant would eliminate the waiting period and thereby realise savings in bridging finance (the RSL said this would cost as much as $3,000). It must be remembered that a cash grant would require many eligible persons to borrow from the market. For those who need only $15,000 (the 45 per cent in Table l.page 18 of Report), then monthly repayments under a cash grant would be lower than under the present loans scheme, if they borrow from savings banks and some building societies and marginally higher if they borrow from other building societies. For those whose need is for more than $15,000 (the 37 per cent in Table 1 ) and who must now borrow on second mortgage, monthly repayment would also be lower with cash grants, particularly those who borrow from finance companies. For the latter category savings would be significant. 
The Government rejected the recommendation for an optional cash grant. While the Committee had put the grant equivalent of the concessional interest loan at $5,000 to $5,500 the Government said that: 'Depending on the assumptions made, arguments may be advanced for grants as little as $3,000 and as much as $5,000.' This response is disappointing. The Government was not prepared, despite the significant long term advantages shown in the Report, to fix a level of grants. 
The response also stated that as a ' matter of principle ' the Government was not prepared to grant any of the savings in administrative costs that might result from the introduction of grants. We ask the question: what is the principle involved? 
The response indicates that for the eligible person's monthly repayments to be the same under a grant as under the present loans scheme, a grant of $7,000 is required. This size of grant is said to be beyond the resources of the Government. 
The implication is that a person with a $5,500 grant would be worse off. This is very misleading. 
The argument in the response ignores the savings in bridging finance mentioned in the Report. It ignores the fact that an optional cash grant of $5,500 would benefit those whose total borrowings are more than $15,000. If we take the example of a person needing $25,000 who under the present scheme would borrow $10,000 from the private market, total monthly payments would be about $217 if money is obtained from a finance company. A cash grant of $5,000 (ignoring bridging finance savings) would enable this person to borrow at first mortgage rates. His monthly repayments would be about $ 1 8 1 . So in these cases ( 10 per cent of DSHS applicants borrow on second mortgage from a finance company, see Exhibit 13, page 56 of evidence) eligible persons would benefit by about 36 dollars a month. 
The purpose of the example is to show how inaccurate and misleading it is for the response to say, or imply that a cash grant of $7,000 is needed if eligible persons are not to be disadvantaged under a cash grant scheme. 
It makes one worry about the quality of advice governments receive. 
Recommendation 8 asked that the interest subsidy on DSHS loans be calculated for the outstanding balance of these loans at the prevailing long-term bond rate rather than the existing method which uses historical rates. The change means that the interest subsidy would reflect the true economic costs of loans. The response said the Minister for Finance might well consider some modification of the Committee 's formula. We look forward to seeing these modifications in the next Budget. 
Most of the remaining recommendations deal with the efficiency of the administration of the Defence Service Homes Corporation. 
Recommendation 9 dealt with staffing. The Government said, in effect, that the recommendation has been overtaken by a review of the Corporation. The Committee's work in this area was acknowledged. What the Committee would have liked to have known is the Government's views on the measurement technique (Table 4, page 28) used by the Committee. 
Recommendation 10 dealt with the use of computers. The decision to instal computers was based on a study which indicated significant overall cost savings. We did not dispute this. What we did say was that the study had limited objectives. Because of this there was a two-pronged recommendation for the Corporation to undertake a cost-effectiveness study. 
The Government did not accept the proposal for further study (presumably 10(b), which dealt with using magnetic tapes) because it was satisfied 'that the equipment purchased by the Corporation, and the uses to which it will be put, are consistent with both the Corporation's requirements and the guidelines established by the Public Service Board. ' 
This is not the point. Our concern was not with the past but with the future. The recommendation ( 10 part (b)) sought an evaluation of the additional uses of the computer in terms of costs and benefits. 
The recommendation (10 part (a)) also dealt with the sharing of computer faculties. The response said the Department of Veterans' Affairs and the Public Service Board will be liaising on this matter. The Committee understands that the sharing of facilities requires additional equipment; either extra discs or on-line terminals or magnetic tapes and tape units. We further understand that of the three choices, magnetic tapes may be best. 
It does appear to us then, that the separate responses to parts (a) and (b) of Recommendation 10 could be at odds with each other. The 'study' for sharing computer facilities should include the use of magnetic tapes. Yet, the use of tapes for other purposes has been excluded by the Government's response. Since the total benefits of the tapes and tape units are now limited by restrictive terms of reference, the outcome of the study may well be predetermined in the negative. 
Once again we are concerned at the quality of advice governments receive. 
Recommendation 1 1 called for a cost-effectiveness study of alternative methods of collecting repayments from borrowers. At present most borrowers repay their loans through post offices. For providing this service the Australian Postal Commission charges the DSH Corporation a commission of 2.3 1 cents for every dollar of repayment, so that for the repayment of $73.82 the commission would be $1.71. This rate, which had a total estimated cost of $ 1.6m in 1977-78, appeared very high. In 10 paragraphs of analysis, the Committee examined alternatives. It concluded that a strong case can be made for the present APC system to be replaced or to be used in conjunction with other systems. It suggested the criteria for the examination required and the criteria included ease of access for persons making repayments. 
In 60 words of response the recommendation was rejected. The user pay principle was endorsed when we did not refer to this principle! It said that if the APC system were withdrawn or altered, difficulties would arise for many borrowers. No explanation was offered. In fact, any such difficulties were covered by the Committee when it said that one of the criteria for examining alternatives was the ease of access for borrowers making repayments (paragraph 147). Having said this and only this, the response concluded that on balance 'et cetera. 
As mentioned earlier the Committee believes it initiated the work that led to reductions in the commission charged by the APC. We have referred to the evidence given by the Secretary of the Department of Veterans' Affairs. There is also the evidence of the General Manager of the Defence Service Homes Corporation. On 6 September 1977, he was asked whether the Corporation was being too generous to the Post Office in respect of the commissions charged. His response was that the APC was in a monopoly position and might respond accordingly if asked for a 'lower clearing' (a reduced commission). In responding to possible alternatives he said: I think we should examine these thoughts you have mentioned and see if we can find a way of using them or developing them into something better'. 
We are in no doubt that the Committee's questioning was responsible for a reduction in the commission which will realise over $350,000 a year. It is therefore surprising that the response did not recognise this contribution. 
It is appropriate for us to connect the two recommendations on cost-effectiveness studies. Replacement of the APC system, either wholly or partially with some of the alternatives mentioned in our Report requires additional computer equipment, particularly magnetic tape units. Such equipment would be used to reduce the work required under the APC arrangements and result in savings in the costs of financial administration. These savings would be additional to those emanating from the use of the tape units for shared facilities and alternative applications considered for the computer. 
Recommendation 12 sought the publication of specific performance measures in annual reports of the Defence Service Homes Corporation. The purpose was, by means of publication, to continue parliamentary oversight of efficiency. The Government said the measure suggested by the Committee 'is more suitable for internal management purposes than for publication'. The response added that some indicative measures of efficiency will be published in future annual reports. 
Once again the response is very light on reasons. We look forward to seeing what is included in future annual reports and reserve final comments until then. 
-Just one moment's reflection makes it clear that Frank Stewart's period in the Parliament was an adornment to his family, his party and the Parliament. It was my privilege to know him very well and to have been brought up in the same suburb of Sydney. I attended a more recent off-shoot of the primary school which he attended. The reputation which he deservedly earned was well known to me and my family. His whole family can take enormous pride in his private and public life. People in public life can have many qualities but the rarest is the possession of moral courage. Compared with it, physical courage is common indeed. It was physical courage, for example, that caused the late Frank Stewart to play lock  for Canberbury-Bankstown. Moral courage is possessed by extremely few people in private or public life. Frank Stewart fought for many things, privately and publicly. I believed with him in many of the things for which he fought. We all know of the battles he fought. We know that he was a member of Parliament from 1953 to 1979. People like Frank Stewart went through an enormous strain in public life from the middle 1950s. Life became exquisitely difficult for them. But Frank Stewart was never one to flinch and he was never one to retreat. His views were always views for Australia. They were never sectional. He never suffused his own attitude, his own statements and his own views with bitterness or with rancour. 
To Maureen and to his family his loss is indeed a heavy blow. If a husband 's or a father's life can act as a light and as an example to his wife and to his children then Frank's will shine for many years.  His  example will be a beacon for many decades to come.  His  party, this Parliament, Australia and certainly his family should remember him always. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
) Regrets that the Association for International Cooperation and Disarmament is a lineal descendant of the World Peace Council whose interests in foreign policy have consistently supported the Soviet Union; 
Expresses amazement that a major policy change concerning the Pine Gap, Nurrungar and North West Cape defence and communication stations should be announced on behalf of the Opposition to an audience of the AICD found to be acceptable; 
Is disturbed that a subcommittee of AICD (remove American bases in Australia) should be the precise organising authority for the meeting addressed by the shadow spokesman,  Senator Wriedt,  on 20 May1979, and 
Declares that this proposal can only humiliate the United States of America and is not in Australia's best foreign policy or defence interests. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for Macquarie. 
Yesterday the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who will follow me in this debate, asked a question of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He asked: 
What action has the honourable gentleman taken to support the United States President's action to urge ratification upon the United States- 
That is, the ratification of the SALT II treaty. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition was concerned, as was the United States Congress and Senate, and as was the Prime Minister, to see that there is less tension in the world. Although the Prime Minister did not do so, in answering that question he could have made two points. They are both appropriate. He could have said that our action to urge ratification is to guarantee to the United States Senate and Congress the continued use of the bases in Australia at Pine Gap, Nurrungar and North West Cape in Western Australia. In doing so, he could have said that we thereby repudiate the proposed change in policy put forward by the Australian Labor Party last Sunday. That was what the Prime Minister could have said. Therefore, the concern of this House with respect to legitimate defence and peace would have been intensified. 
Why should we be concerned with what has happened over the past three days and on last Sunday? It is crystal clear that if such bases are to operate satisfactorily in Australia they must operate on a basis of political and government stability. It is also quite clear that the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence,  Senator Wriedt,  proposes that that stability be taken away. It is quite clear that he proposes that the guarantees given by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam-  this was pointed out by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  yesterday- in the Budget session of 1975, that there would be no disclosure of what happens at those bases, will be repudiated. I suggest that this Government and this Parliament ought not to go along with that proposition. Some astounding matters are involved in what has been proposed. The first is that  Senator Wriedt,  speaking on behalf of the Opposition, should make his new policy concerning the United States bases known at a meeting of the Association for Internal Co-operation and Disarmament. It is extraordinary that he should have made that statement at a meeting organised by a sub-committee for the removal of United 
States bases in Australia. The title of the address that  Senator Wriedt  made to that meeting was Implications of United States bases in Australia'. It is incredible that an alternative Minister for Foreign Affairs found an acceptable audience at a body which is a lineal descendant of the peace committee set up by Stalin in the late 1940s. Yet that has occurred. 
I wish to dwell for one or two moments on the historical basis of what has occurred. I am indebted to the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack),  who read a magnificent speech into  Hansard  in November last year. He had several things to say concerning peace treaties, the peace committees and the World Peace Council, which is the grandfather of the present Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament. It is relevant to make a couple of quotations from his speech. The secretary-general of that organisation, Romesh Chandra, made these two statements over the years. He said: 
The World Peace Council - 
It is associated with the Association to which  Senator Wriedt  spoke-  in its turn, positively reacts to all Soviet initiatives in international affairs. 
In a Soviet weekly  Mr Chandra  also stated: 
The Soviet Union invariably supports the peace movement. 
So this is the audience to which  Senator Wriedt,  on behalf of the Opposition, felt that he could propose this change in Australian Labor Party policy on United States bases in Australia. I find that extraordinary. But if we go a little further we find that that campaign for the removal of United States bases in Australia has received support from the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament. Beverley Symons is the General Secretary of that body in New South Wales and I quote three sentences of what she had to say in an article in the  Tribune  of 28 June 1978. These sentences are important because they contain the same reasons for rejecting United States bases in Australia as were hinted at by  Senator Wriedt  in his speech. Beverley Symons is reported as saying:   the most important and dangerous of the 40 US bases here are Pine Gap, North West Cape and Nurrungar. 
Those are the three bases to which  Senator Wriedt  referred. The other two paragraphs are worth noting: 
These make Australia a prime nuclear target as part of a world-wide network which aims to provide the US with a nuclear first-strike capacity. 
They have an offensive, not defensive, function and play a key role in maintaining American political and economic domination in the region. 
Both of those reasons were hinted at and embraced during the talk that  Senator Wriedt  gave. What has puzzled me is that a person of  Senator Wriedt  's background should seek to make a new policy in this way. To what pressures has he clearly been subjected in order that he would do so? I think this House ought to express itself increasingly in respect of this matter. 
I turn now to three parts of  Senator Wriedt  's speech which it is appropriate for us to look at. He said, first of all, that it was appropriate now to put pressure on the United States because we have 'leverage'. The word 'leverage' has been mentioned over and over again. He said that the United States was embarrassed as a result of events in Iran and that there were uncertain allies in the Middle East on the borders of the Soviet Union that existed previously. Do I have to mention Iraq and dollars to the Opposition? Do I have to mention Turkey? We know what has happened in Afghanistan. Yet at the precise time at which the United States is embarrassed and humiliated, the leverage proposed by the official spokesman for the Opposition is to begin to pull the rug out on the bases. Let us consider the same attitude to leverage in relation to Vietnam. Vietnam was sensitive a few months ago. It invaded Cambodia and began to eliminate its entrepreneurial class and its farmers. It was then sensitive and open to leverage, but in that case the leverage that was suggested by  Senator Wriedt  and the rest of the Opposition was to give Vietnam more money. I contrast those attitudes merely to make the House aware that there is a very selective attitude taken to the meaning of leverage'. One cannot help but be left with the unfortunate impression that the old slogan of  Yank Go Home ' has its modern day counterpart in a strange kind of selective leverage with selective judgments thrown in. 
I turn now to page 1 1 of  Senator Wriedt  's speech in which he said: 
Clearly - 
He was trying to give a little bit of assurance- 
Australia could not have the facilities removed in the short term. 
What is the short term? Is it a week, a month, two months, three months? A few years ago, the Opposition had a conception of short term. 'Short term' meant a 20-year loan for $4,000m. On the same basis, would the long term, in the Opposition's terms, be a couple of weeks or a couple of months? So what is the short term? There is an obligation to indicate what is the short term that is the ingredient of the new policy to be proposed by the Australian Labor Party in this respect. Australia awaits it with some interest. 
This new policy is to be presented to the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party and on page 13 of his speech,  Senator Wriedt  had this to say: 
I believe it is essential that the public is told much more than it currently knows. It is likely at its next conference, that the Labor Party will vary its policy on overseas bases by making it clear that it will make known to the Australian public the general purposes and functions of the bases and any changes to those purposes and functions. 
So if those bases are to respond to a changed strategic situation, which is a change in function, that has to be made known to the Australian public. That is all right; let it be made known. But it should be remembered that it would also be making it known to  Mr Basov,  the Soviet Ambassador to Australia. It would also be making it known to others. So when we talk about making it known, let it be clear who will have the knowledge. Let us not live in a dream world in this respect. Of course, this kind of proposition was acceptable to the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament because it is unashamedly a left wing and communist body compared with which on foreign policy the Disputes Committee of the Sydney Trades and Labor Council, for example, would be a mad right wing organisation. So of course these propositions are put forward to such people. 
Who is to make judgments in respect of the adequate functioning of this body? It is the members of the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party. Let it be remembered that only a few years ago, for the price of a few Iraqi dollars, there was a proposal to influence an Australian election and to influence an important political party in an Australian election. What price can this House contemplate might induce people to begin to inhibit the legitimate operation of the three bases? We should remember that there are common people involved in both the election and the Iraqi dollars incident of a few years ago and in the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party to be held later this year. I ask the House merely to contemplate that proposition. The matter is important and I believe its importance ought to be appreciated. 
I therefore suggest that there are at least four questions which need to be answered, and need to be answered quite clearly. Firstly, why should a major address announcing a change in terms of American bases in Australia be made to an organisation which is an offshoot of the World 
Peace Council? Why ought that to be done? Secondly, why should it be acceptable that the meeting organised to receive and applaud that proposed change in policy be organised by a subcommittee which by its title is designed to 'remove United States bases in Australia'. The third question is simply this: Why take this opportunity to humiliate unnecessarily the United States? Is selective leverage the umbrella under which distortions in policy are now to reside or to be invited to reside? There is a residual common sense in the Australian community that would not buy such nonsense for a moment. One does not have to go into the private bars of Australia to realise that that residual common sense lies also in the public bars among Australia's working men and others. 
The fourth question is: What conceivable possible legitimate aim for Australian defence and foreign policy is involved in these proposals? What is the intention? What is  Senator Wriedt  driving at? Why should somebody such as  Senator Wriedt  say this? I have always had a great respect for him- a moderate person and someone who, for example, has said that there was no place for the socialist Left in the Labor Party? What forces have compelled him to make this kind of proposition? I hope that the House will contemplate those questions. Of Lord Macaulay- a famous barrister, an historian, a member of parliament and even a civil servant- a loquacious person, it was said by his friends that he often spoke too much but when he was silent he had magnificent flashes of brilliance'. The same ought to apply to the alternative Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
I move: 
That this House, having regard to the requirements  or  Australian Federalism that States should, within the total economic program, be responsible Tor their own affairs and that the effects of Commonwealth policies should fall as fairly as possible on the various States, requests the Commonwealth to- 
1 ) monitor closely the economic experience of the States so that they share fairly the experiences of strong economic growth as well as economic restraint; 
examine closely the effects of the four periods of economic restraint since World War II; 
consider and make available the effects of all forms of Commonwealth intervention, including tariffs, quotas, bounties and price support systems on the economies of those States, and 
ensure that these are discussed quantitatively at the next Premiers' Conference and Loan Council so that domestic economic experience in the States reflects their respective values of output. 
My motion concerns the non-political matter of federalism. It is about the living standards which are enjoyed in the various States, related to the value of production that those States contribute to Australia. There are two principles of federalism in this country. The first is that there should be a distribution of responsibility from the central government to the States. That has been done through tax systems. The second principle is one which is still not adequately attended to; that is, the principle of horizontal equity, that there should be a fair distribution of the benefits and of the burdens of the development of this country. I suggest that my motion has particular application to the Premiers Conference which is due to commence late in June this year. The gravamen of what I have to say is included in paragraph (3) of the motion. We suggest that at the Premiers Conference this year, all forms of Commonwealth intervention in the economies of the States should be discussed and quantified. Of course, I am referring to tariffs, quotas, bounties and price support systems. These should be discussed and quantified by the Premiers at the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council meeting in 1979. 
Why do I do that? There is an old saying, for a little man as against a big man: 'I can run as fast as I can for me as you can run for you'. Translated, it simply means that everybody ought to have a reward appropriate to their effort. Within the Australian federal system that should apply to States as well as to persons. I am concerned with the people in the various States. What is disturbing to me is that when one looks at the levels of income for households and for people in the States over the last 30 years, Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania have consistently fared worse. In fact, Queensland and Western Australia have been the lowest or second lowest in terms of household income for 26 of the last 30 years. Occasionally they have crept up to third lowest. Tasmania shared the position with those two States. Yet, in terms of real contribution to wealth in Australia, those States deserve far more than they get. What are some of the transfers that occur and which are not measured? They are very important and I will illustrate them quickly. It might be debated in this House that those States should not get more than they deserve because they do not contribute so much to Australia. That is not true. 
The most difficult income to be earned in Australia is export income. For the eight months to February 1979 the export income generated from, for example, Queensland and Western Australia- they are easier to measure than Tasmania- was $1,140 per person. For the rest of the country the level of export income generated was $464 per person. The reward for generating that export income- which touches Australia's international current account, the most difficult economic variable that we have- is to have the lowest standards of living in those States that generate the real wealth for this country. Why is that so? The reason for it is quite inescapable and it ought to be faced. Effectively, through the Commonwealth system there are sweetmeats handed out under the table, through tariffs, quotas, bounties and price support systems which militate very largely against those States. 
Before I begin to quantify those, I will give an example of what should happen. Honourable members know that the outlying parts of Australia are the most quickly developing parts of the country. They are the parts that are generating the real wealth. If one were to ask what that means in terms of the standards of living for the people there, it is simply this: Queensland will come to an equality with the rest of Australia in terms of its own living standards, on the present progression, in the year 2065. Western Australia will be a little quicker; it will come to equality with the rest of Australia in terms of living standards in the year 2030. One might then ask when they will come to an inequality with New South Wales and Victoria. Queensland will do that in about the year 2090. Western Australia will be a little quicker; it will do it in the year 2055. The equality is not reflected in the standards of living of the States that are the quickly developing parts of this country, that are generating the real income and have an increasing proportion of export income. 
Why is it not? I will go through the tariff system firstly. The estimate was made four years ago that the tariff system in Australia was responsible for the effective distribution of about $4,500m worth of resources. In other words, it was equivalent to a cheque for that amount of money paid to the tariff protected industries in Australia. I take as an example the Ford Motor Co. Pty Ltd in Melbourne. That tariff protection is worth $160m to  Sir Brian  Inglis of the Ford Motor Company. It is worth $70m or $80m to the Chrysler-Mitsubishi company in South Australia. 
Let me go through what is the distribution of those resources as between the States. These are not measured and they are never discussed. They are never quantified. There are $4,500m worth of resources. In 1973-74, New South Wales received $ 1,300m of that sum; Victoria received between $ 1,700m and $ 1,800m; Queensland was paid $300m; South Australia received $800m; Western Australia's share was $250m; and Tasmania received $150m. In other words, of the $4,500m which is effectively distributed by those means, the three outlying States between them receive one-sixth of the total. Those States contain 26 per cent to 27 per cent of the population of Australia. They produce up to half the export income of Australia. They get one-sixth of the amount of the basic method whereby households are preserved in employment and whereby people are able to obtain jobs. I want to see that that distribution is known, that it is not hidden, that it is discussed and that it legitimately becomes part of the Federal system. 
I will now give another example with respect to bounties because it is quite important. There are 12 Acts which effectively distribute bounties in Australia- two rural ones and another 10 that distribute bounties to industry covering a range of equipment from agricultural tractors to rotary cultivators. There are 14,500 people who are assisted in employment because of the operation of the bounty system. I will detail the distribution of those benefits. Victoria has 3,500 people who are assisted in employment; New South Wales has over 4,000 people; South Australia has between 3,000 and 4,000 people; Western Australia has 800-odd; and Queensland has 120 people who are assisted by means of the bounty system, including the rural bounties. I merely say this: The significance of that distribution of benefit and of real wealth ought to be measured in this country. After all, a bedsitting bounty has been given to an industry - where each person and each entrepreneur has been assisted to the extent of about $21,000 a person a year. That is fair enough; I accept it. But why should some people have a lower standard of living, suffer greater unemployment and receive nothing merely because they happen to reside in States with industries which are themselves not protected or assisted? In the very little time left for me, I want to say that tariffs, bounties, quotas and the attractions of the investment system ought to be made known at a Premiers Conference. Until they are known and are discussed, we are not talking about the distribution of the real benefits of the Federal system within Australia. They ought to be quantified and they ought to be calculated. I mention the new system to help General Motors-Holden's Ltd with respect to the export industry. If a protected company like General Motors-Holden's Ltd is able to export some engines, it receives a bilateral trade advantage. Let us not argue about that. But why should that proposition be confined only to protected industries that happen to export a little? What about other export industries? For example, were that advantage to be given to Comalco Ltd with the installation of its smelter in Gladstone, which earns export income for Australia, that smelter could be built for $40m to $50m less. The same happened at Botany in respect of Imperial Chemical Industries Ltd. The same happened in Adelaide with respect to the Chrysler-Mitsubishi company. I am suggesting very seriously to the House that at this year's Premiers' Conference these matters should be discussed. They should not be ignored. They should not be swept under the table. The abiding principle of federalism is this- I will finish on this point,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - 
-This afternoon's debate has been a fascinating one, especially when one listens to the Opposition. There appears to have been a delightful air of expectation among Opposition members. It pervaded almost every one of their speeches between 2 o'clock and now, a little after 5.30 p.m. But I would expect them to be careful. If they think their expectations about taxation may be fulfilled, I remind them of the experience of the Irish obstetrician who was so full of expectations he made his appointments 1 6 months ahead. So there can be many a slip 'twixt cut and lip and a slip elsewhere. I hope the Opposition bears that in mind. Some of the speeches had their own flavour. One honourable member sounded like the barker for Jimmy Sharman's troupe. I thought he was going to totally overcome us with noise instead of sense. I am pleased he did not. I want to say one or two things on taxation. I am going to speak for 10 minutes. 
The honourable member will just have to hide his acute disappointment. Many charges have been made in this House and elsewhere in respect of taxation. The charge has been that the Government is a high taxation government. I would like to read a couple of enervating sentences and ask honourable members to guess who was responsible for them. They are as follows: 
The challenge to traditional democratic socialism has been expressed in a number of deeply dispiriting doctrines. One example is the rapid spread of philosophies based on lower taxes and smaller government. ' Fraserism ' was one of the earliest expressions of these philosophies. Although  Mr Fraser  's practice has been rather erratic this sort of approach strikes directly at the conventional democratic socialist notion that equality and equity can only be assured by a stronger public sector. 
Can anybody in the House indicate what critic of taxation said that? They are straight words from the F. E. Chamberlain lecture delivered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in Perth on 29 March 1979. When the Government is accused of imposing higher taxation, I request that the House remember that criticism that is directed at this Government because it might be one that acknowledges that the Government's policy is one of smaller government and lower taxes. Whether capital gains taxes are justified or not, I hope nobody falls for the piece of nonsense that they can make up the difference in terms of taxation. I am not that opposed to capital gains tax but it cannot make up the difference that the Opposition would claim for it. 
I want to refer to a few remarks made earlier today about the distribution of bounties in Australia and the distribution between States of Commonwealth of intervention in the economics of States. This is no criticism of any particular government. Ten industrial bounties apply in Australia. They are the agricultural tractors bounty, the automatic data processing equipment bounty, the bed sheeting bounty, the book bounty, the commercial motor vehicles bounty, the metal working machine tools bounty, the polyester cotton yarn bounty, the paper bounty, the rotary cultivators bounty and the dental alloys bounty. It is always worth looking at the benefits of those bounties distributed amongst the States. They have been designed to keep 14,200 people in employment. Of that number, 1 12 reside in my own State of Queensland. Western Australia draws support for the magnificent total of 875 people. Through the paper bounty, Tasmania has support for a little over 1,000 people. I think that illustrates very clearly the distortion that occurs between the States in terms of the distribution of Commonwealth intervention in the economy of this country. The outlying States are paying and are paying very dearly. 
A number of statements have been made about custom tariff amendments. Amendments are proposed in respect of eight industries, from certain paper and paper boards to work trucks and certain mobile machines et cetera. Involved are effective subsidies of $ 130m to $140m. The distribution of the effects of those subsidies is quite important. Seventy per cent of that $ 130m to $140m goes to two States of Australia. Why begrudge them that? I say good luck to them. They are very fortunate. They are very fortunate also in that 80,000 people are assisted by the 10 bounties to which I referred. However, the rest of Australia gets very little out of the bounties, out of the total tariff and quota distribution and out of the more recent amendments to tariff and quota proposals. Therefore I suggest that those quantities and the distribution of effective resources be discussed at the Premiers Conference on 28 and 29 June. It is important that they be discussed. An amount of $4,500m is involved in tariffs and quotas. I have just nominated about $90 m worth of bounties. There are other monetary measures. We want discussed the effects of all these upon the States of the Commonwealth and therefore the effects on the people in the various States. 
There is one piece of evidence which I think is very important. Nobody can deny that during the late 1 9th century and 20th century the western States of the United States were the quickly developing ones. In this country the outlying States, Western Australia and Queensland in particular, are the more quickly developing parts of this Commonwealth. We all accept that and it is to the advantage of this nation. Why is that quicker development and greater contribution to the national wealth not reflected in an appropriate increase in standards of living in those States? That is an important question to ask. 
-It is not of recent origin; it is of older origin. I hope the honourable member does not attempt to play politics. This issue cuts across all kinds of governments. It has gone on for a long time. The reason is simply that the major forms of economic intervention by the Commonwealth in Australian society are unmeasured. We want them measured. We want them known and taken into account. I am delighted that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  has interjected, but the very proposition I am stating is not one that can be countenanced if one has a centralist philosophy as to the development of Australia. I invite the honourable member to speak to those people of his party who come from Victoria, South Australia or New South Wales. They are the heart of his party. They would not agree to look at any of these things, because some of the advantages which the first two States have might be reduced. They may have to distribute some of the benefits that they have been able to obtain from the rest of Australia. I am asking that the essential horizontal equity part of the federalist principle be discussed at the Premiers Conference. I hope that that request is taken on board and that the Premiers are able to discuss the matter on 28 and 29 June.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it was suggested that I should speak for 10 minutes, and that time has elapsed. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
Bearing in mind that for economic, defence and foreign policy planning the short-term is any period of time less than 18 months or two years, acknowledges that mutual defence arrangements between Australia and the United States of America must not be of such short-term duration; 
Calls for the guarantees concerning the Pine Gap, Nurrungbar and the North West Cape communication and defence bases to be long term; 
Records that last week in another place, the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of his Party failed to clarify his statement that 'clearly Australia could not have the facilities removed in the short term'; and 
Therefore very respectfully calls on the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party to guarantee that the three facilities continue for the long term with their present functions unchanged - 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Introverted pessimism has never made any country great and certainly never made people happy. I do not tend to travel down the path of pessimism or despair with respect to today's debate nor do I intend to invite it. I wish to respond to one or two of the points that have been made by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins).  They deserve an appropriate response in such a wide-ranging debate. With respect to taxation there was a general criticism of the taxation policies of this Government. I remind the Parliament of little snippets of history. These are always very important. The plain fact is that 23 market or semi-market economies in the world have their taxation levels measured. These are measured in relation to their general national product. These countries are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Australia is one of them. The plain fact is that in all the years they have been measured for only three years has Australia led the world in the rate of taxation increase which it has levied in relation to the national income. It went to the top of the pile. In fact, at the top of the ladder it was under disputation by only one other nation and that was Turkey. We may have given the position over to Turkey now and then. That is a plain fact. The next question which I invite myself to ask is: What were those three years? The years were 1973, 1974 and- can you guess it- 1975. The next question I ask is simply this: Was it foreshadowed by those who were responsible for the Australian management in those years that they would raise taxation of that type? The answer is: No, it was not foreshadowed. In fact, they said that they would reduce it. I merely mention this to the House because I think it is appropriate. 
I wish to say one other thing in relation to that matter because it was dwelt on by both the previous speakers. It is unfair that taxation be considered apart from the day or the age in which it is levied. For example, it is totally ludicrous to look at the Australian taxation in 1978-79 and ask why it is not the same as it was in 1 929. There were totally different functions of government that were acceptable. Why is it not the same as it was in 1879 when the Carron Steel Mill began to remake all the economies of the world? It is a totally improper proposition to compare taxation rates over time without having regard to what other countries were doing over that time as well. When the Opposition was in power Australia led all the measured countries of the world except Turkey. 
-Look, in relation to taxation I do not wish to be cruel or nasty, but if all the honourable member's brains were ink, he would hardly make a full stop. There is one point that ought to be made in respect to oil. 
That is a totally improper comment and the honourable member for Port Adelaide ought to have more sense than to make a comment such as that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Port Adelaide will cease interjecting. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide would not make a comma. With respect to oil the alternative to a change in the price of oil is simply that we have some kind of rationing. We cannot escape that other alternative and it is simply there. Immediately we consider that point we have to consider black marketeering, the nature of rationing, and under-the-counter sales. I ask honourable members to remember, above all, that the late  Mr Chifley  regretted in 1950 and 1951 that he did not discover that fact rather earlier in 1 949.I wish to deal with one of these Bills today and that is the first Bill, the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill. It is designed to validate 15 customs tariff proposals put to the nation by this Government. The 15 tariff proposals embrace 14 Schedules. They include: Paper and paper board; fisheries and fish processing; injection and puncture of needles; inks; jewellery; timber and timber products; plywood and veneer; tyres and tyre cases; umbrellas; sunshades and parts; vegetable oils and fats; animal oils and fats; work trucks and certain mobile machines. These proposals have been put forward by the Government previously and this measure is designed to validate them. A number of questions ought to be asked in relation to the proposal. Those measures are worth of the order of $ 140m. In other words, the tariff proposals that have been put forward are the equivalent of a subsidy to the industries affected of about $140m a year. The principal industries which receive those tariff benefits are the timber and timber products industry, the tyre and tyre cases industry- which receive a net subsidy equivalent on those products of about $30m a year- and of course the paper and paper board industry which receives of the order of $ 16m to $17m. So those three industries receive the lion's share; they are the principal beneficiaries of the measures now before the House. 
I want to look at the distribution of benefits which flow from those industries. First of all, there are 80,000 people plus or minus 1,000 or 2,000 whose employment is assisted and whose employment is retained as a result of the application of these tariff measures. Of those 80,000 people 80 per cent are assisted in three StatesNew South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. I do not argue with that; the House  will  accept it and the House will support it. What I am saying here is what was said in respect of other tariff measures. We ought to know what parts of the nation and what States of this nation happen to be the principal recipients of the benefits which come from tariff measures, because the benefits are important, they are large and they certainly cannot be ignored. 
Let me give an example from a wider field, since this is a general tariff debate. Each year in terms of assistance to industry about $4,500m is distributed by means of the tariff proposals. It is $140m today, $4,500m a year. That was the calculation a year or two ago. The question we asked ourselves, and we immediately ask ourselves, is: Which States are the beneficiaries of that assistance? I would hope that that would be a question to be raised at this year's Premiers Conference. What is the distribution of the benefits of that assistance? I have done some calculations and I have a table on which I have already consulted with the honourable member for Fremantle. I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905314_54_0.jpg"></graphic>

The table attempts to set out as between each State the net subsidy equivalent of the total tariff measures that apply in Australia. It attempts to bring up to 1979, on a very conservative basis, the benefit of that tariff assistance in dollars per person for each State of Australia. I will read to the House the benefits that apply per person in each State of Australia for the year 1 979 as a result of the application of tariff measures. Assuming that between the periods 1973-74 and 1979 there has been in excess of a 7 per cent total reduction in tariffsand it has not been that high- and assuming that there has been only 25 per cent inflation between those two periods- and there has been a much higher rate- the allocation per person for each State is interesting. In New South Wales it is $410 per person. In Victoria it is $570-odd per person. In Queensland it is $211. In South Australia it is $581. In Western Australia it is $245. In Tasmania it is $262. 
There is an enormous disparity therefore in the distribution of the benefits of tariff protection. It was that kind of consideration which led the Industries Assistance Commission, which has been referred to repeatedly in this place this afternoon, to examine the interstate effects of these measures. The result is set out in an excellent booklet called 'Structural Change and Economic Interdependence' issued in 1977. 1 refer to pages 1 5 and 1 6 of that booklet. The table which I have incorporated in  Hansard  is derived from Table 2.4 in that booklet which deals with the value added in manufacturing industry in all States. Two points follow from that table. In the outlying States of Australia the greatest proportion of their manufacturing industries is in the least protected sectors. In the south eastern corner, particularly Victoria and South Australia, the greatest proportion of their manufacturing industries is in the most highly protected manufacturing sectors. That led the IAC to comment on page 1 6: 'Thus, tariff structure effectively subsidies the economies of Victoria and South Australia and taxes those of Western Australia and Queensland'. I merely ask that those matters be considered together with their distribution effects. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  interrupted earlier. He knows probably as well as anybody in this place that his State of South Australia depends to an enormous extent on the benefit it gains from tariff proposals. I am not proposing that Australia should live in a free trade world. A free trade world is a piece of fantasy. I am not suggesting that Australia embrace free trade. You cannot have a free trader Australia in an effectively protectionist world. All I am suggesting- and I hope that this can be taken up at the Premiers Conference in late June this year- is that the effects as between States of tariffs, quotas, bounties and industry assistance, including assistance to the sugar industry, be tabulated, be calculated and be discussed. We are talking about the distribution of well over $5,000m in effective assistance subsidy. It is a lot of money. How large is it, in fact? We should look at the general revenue funds allocated last year at the Premiers Conference, for example. If my memory serves me correctly- and I hope it does- at the Premiers Conference last year, quite apart from specific section 96 grants and the loan program funds the distribution of which is governed by other means, general revenue grants, which is the old taxation reimbursement formula that has been brought up to date by the tax sharing arrangements, amounted to just under $5,000m. That was discussed. That was argued about. That entered into argumentation and disputation at the Premiers Conference, and rightly so. By these means, as has been demonstrated, an effective $4,500m to $5,000m is distributed but that distribution is never discussed. It is considered merely on an industry by industry basis. But it is as important in its effect on the lives of the people in the various States of Australia as any other means. We merely say that the distribution ought to be discussed and ought not to be ignored. I hope that the Premier of Queensland,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, and the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Lowe,  will all set their minds to this task. If they were to do it they would be doing something very valuable for Australia and also for their people because that is a part of what one would call true federalism and a valid distribution of the benefits of federalism. 
Honourable members in this House might ask: Why be concerned about this matter? Is there anything which impels a member to worry about these matters?' There is one overriding fact in Australia and it is not the blame of any particular government. Every economic and financial journal in this country knows that the more quickly developing parts of this nation are the outlying parts. They are Western Australia and Queensland. Every calculation indicates that an increasing proportion of Australia's ability to compete in the world has to come from those States. Those States happen to have mines, rural industries and other industries which compete on the world market. 
We know also that probably Australia's greatest problem is that of the deficit on the international current account. Exports help reduce the deficit more than the product of any other industry. But accompanying that fact is a salutory problem. Although the States I have mentioned are the most quickly developing ones in Australia and are providing an increasing proportion of the real wealth that Australia produces, this is not reflected in an appropriate change in the standards of living of the people in those States. For example, if one goes through the national accounts for 1948-49, when they were first developed in their present form, to 1977-78, a period of 30 years, one finds that those outlying States have consistently had the lowest standards of living throughout that period. They have competed with one another for last place or second last place. They remain in those places today although they have been developing quickly over the last decade and more since coal, iron ore and other industries have been exploited. So there is an imbalance here which needs to be considered. 
I suggest that the greatest imbalance that needs to be considered is the effect ofthe contribution of Commonwealth measures on industry in its interstate allocations. I suggest that this problem not be ignored; that no attempt be made to sweep it under the carpet. If it is swept under the carpet then every time somebody walks over it it will become apparent. Every time somebody walks over it it will crackle. Premiers are going to see that they walk over it so I ask that honourable members turn their minds to this problem. Another problem is that quite often the advice available in outlying States has not turned itself to this kind of measure. Advisers have been concerned with the obvious financial transfers, the $4,800m or $4,900m transferred to general revenue funds. That amount is on the top of the table at the Premiers Conference but we want also to discuss those matters that have been, in a sense, under the table. We want all of them taken into account and considered. 
I suggest that this be done at the Premiers Conference for another reason. It cannot be done by the Commonwealth Grants Commission because the Commission is concerned with the position of claimant States, only with what is called fiscal equalisation. The Grants Commission tries to bring about some equality in terms of the availability of services in the various States. But it is not going to concern itself with the basic market forces which cause tax to be able to be paid by people in States, or income able to be earned, or employment able to be secured. The 
Grants Commission does not concern itself with those matters because it would be outside its ken. 
This problem is not a new one but I suggest that it has not been expressed in this form before. It is not one which is going to be developed so as to categorise, lacerate or hurt any government, past or present; it is a real attempt to find a solution to a problem. The problem is there and I believe it cannot be ignored. It will not go away if it is ignored. It is not one which attempts to substitute some old-hat, ethereal, ineffective free trade solution for what occurs. Federalism means that there is an appropriate reward for people in the various parts of Australia for the value of product which is produced in those various parts of Australia. It means it has to be measured as it is measured now, by statisticians. It has to be measured by States. I hope that at the Premiers Conference this year these matters are brought forward for a salutary and healthy discussion. If that occurs, I believe there will be greater benefit for everybody concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister or the Minister acting for the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that generally most non-government schools are at Level 6 according to the Schools Commission, which is the lowest physical resources level? Does he appreciate that attempts to lift these Level 6 schools through public expenditure assistance cannot be accomplished by the Commonwealth alone, and that some States have dragged their feet for years? Will he therefore seek the co-operation of these States to accomplish this task in both recurrent and capital expenditure fields and ensure that the Commonwealth's effort is made known to those schools, the students and their parents, and will he make known the fact that the States dragging their feet are New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania? 

 -As Chairman of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure and of the Sub-committee which inquired into the Northern Territory forestry program, I will respond to the remarks of the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  I know that the Vice-chairman of the sub-committee and a third member, the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  also want to say a few words. The members of the Committee are very disappointed with the response that has been given to the work that the Subcommittee has carried out. First of all, we are disappointed that the urgency of the response has not been heeded by the Government or the Minister. The Minister mentioned that our report was submitted on 25 May 1978. He knows that the response to that report should be made within six months, according to the advice of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The response came more than 12 months after the report was submitted to this House. The members of the Sub-committee feel that that fact deserves at least the barest of passing references, but it did not gain any from the Minister. 
The history of the Sub-committee's attitude to the Northern Territory forestry program needs to be recounted. We were informed in late March 1978 by a former member of the Expenditure Committee that this matter should be investigated. We knew that substantial selfgovernment responsibilities were to be handed to the Northern Territory on 1 July 1978. So within a short period and with very expert advice we made a report, not one word of which is in dispute. Where there is a pretence at dispute, such as by the Chief Secretary of the Northern Territory Administration, that pretence is shot down by a report of his own officers. I will read the words of that report into  Hansard  in a few minutes. 
The upshot of the Sub-committee's report is that, whilst its members are mollified with statements that the work of the Sub-committee was found to be useful, good, deserving of praise and so on, not one skerrick of our recommendation on financial restraint or financial consequence is to be put upon the Northern Territory Administration. That simply means that $25m to $30m has been wasted. In 1979 dollars terms that is not a small amount of money. All the circumstances exist for a waste of $25m to $30m to continue despite our report. That ought to concern this House. I know that it concerns all members of the Expenditure Committee, irrespective of the party to which they belong. 
It is true that in the middle of last year an investigation of our report was commissioned by two Queensland foresters, a  Mr Hawkins  and another gentleman whose name escapes me. That report has been relied upon by the Northern Territory Administration to justify its attitude. I want to read into the  Hansard  the results of the investigation of that report by officers of  Mr Everingham  's Department in the Northern Territory itself. They are significant. This has not yet been disclosed. In a five-page report they very substantially supported all the work that the Expenditure Committee had performed. I will quote from the report: 
After 20 years in the forestry business we do not seem to have much to show. For example- no commercial forests; no approved species on areas of development; a large amount of research still required. A report from Queensland- 
That is the report on our submission to this House- 
. does not necessarily justify what has been, or is being, done nor does it rescind the House of Representatives report on the economies of the venture. 
It states that 'still large amounts of research are required before doing anything else'. Yet funding is to continue from the Commonwealth Government for doing something else. One principal example is 400 acres a year of plantation on Melville Island for which there is no justification whatsoever from any scientific or rational authority. I will speak for only a few more minutes because I think this is a significant matter. The Forestry and Timber Bureau of the Department of Primary Industry cannot escape responsibility. There is the reference in the Minister's statement to the fact that the Bureau ceased to have executive responsibility for the program in July 1967. That carries with it the impression that what has happened since that time is not of the Bureau's doing. That is not quite correct. I want to deal with this at some length. A letter was written last year to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  discounting that disclaimer. I do not want to seek to incorporate that letter in  Hansard,  but I want to say this: The big leap forward in terms of Northern Territory forestry occurred from the late 1960s to 1975. The Director of the Forestry and Timber Bureau was on the interdepartmental committee which recommended that big leap forward. I suggest that the Minister ought to ask for the minutes of that IDC on that leap forward which is the time period which principally accounts for the appalling waste that has occurred. The disclaimer cannot be accepted. It was unanimously supported - 
The IDC on the Northern Territory forestry program on which  Dr Cromer  sat and which accounts for the expansion of activities in the period up to 1975-76. There was unanimous support for that recommendation and he was involved with it. I will comment on only one or two other points because the other members of the Sub-committee want to make some remarks as well. 
The plain fact is that there was a forestry department in the Northern Territory. That department has now been incorporated into what is called the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission. Very little work was done and a lot of cover-up was involved. On our information the Forestry Section of that Commission consists of a larger number of personnel than worked in the Forestry Department which has been scarified and lacerated by our report, and justifiably so. How can governments claim a program of some austerity under those circumstances when there was one rule for some parts of Australia and apparently another in respect of the Forestry Department of the Northern Territory Administration? It is a ludicrous set of circumstances. 
We agree with the report that if there is to be a commencement of activities it ought to be after adequate research. That is not the case now. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is carrying out research which should be appropriate to the situation. We believe that expansion or maintenance of softwood plantation activities should be pursued under the Softwood Forestry Agreement and that financial assistance should be provided at rates of interest which are acceptable to the Australian Forestry Council. 
Nothing that has been said this morning, nothing contained in the report of the Queensland foresters and nothing discovered in the investigation of both reports by the Northern Territory Administration disputes the substance of what was submitted to this House over one year ago. Every skerrick of the sub-committee report is correct, and the members of that subcommittee are not inclined to retreat from it one iota. If every skerrick of that report is correct, there has to be and there should be financial consequences that flow from that fact. There is no point in saying: 'What you said is correct, what you said is true and what you said is right, but let us ignore the economic, financial and money consequences that flow from it and pretend that nothing has occurred '. That is contrary to common sense, contrary to the procedures of this House and contrary to what we present to the Australian people. 
The funding for the Northern Territory forestry program should not be included in the general grants for the Northern Territory so that we do not know how much it is. A waste of $25m to $30m has occurred. We should not allow this to continue. There is a sense of some anger. I know the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  has a welling, although subdued sense of anger about these matters. The same sense of anger wells up in the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  who has a stoic-like face. I know those honourable members want to say something. We have the abiding impression that there is a sense of co-operation between bureaucracies trying to maintain themselves. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I give notice that on General Business Thursday No 12, 1 shall move: 
That this House- 
1 ) congratulates the Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister for their announcement on 5 July 1979, to proceed with the first phase of the new Brisbane Airport, to cost $92m and 
acknowledges that the people of Australia and especially of Queensland will receive enormous economic and social benefits from this development, and that the people of Queensland look forward to the manner in which the Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister will wield the first pick or drive the first bulldozer or whatever, with the active support of all Queensland Government members and senators. 
-by leave-I express some degree of surprise at the statement that has been made. I did not know that the statement was to be made today, but of course that could be in accordance with the normal processes of the House. I would have liked the statement to have been discussed with the Government Members Committee before it was made. That would have been a part of the normal process. One would hope to look at the legislation when it is introduced. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the statements made by Chinese Vice Premier Madame Chen Muhua at the National Press Club that China's trade in its modernisation program will follow practices such as (a) compensatory payments, which she defined as being payments with the products of the enterprises and (b) delaying payments for equipment. 
If so, will he and the Minister for Foreign Affairs issue guidelines on these new principles of international trade, governing (a) the items of trade acceptable as compensatory payments (b) the prices of products traded in this way as compared with normal multilateral trade and (c) the effects on Australia 's foreign policy of these new arrangements. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek to make a personal explanation. 
-Not surprisingly, I would like to say one or two words in relation to this matter. The House has taken a very great interest in the Brisbane Airport for a number of years. The House would be aware, consequently, that there have been more motions on the Notice Paper concerning the redevelopment of Brisbane Airport than on any other item; and, naturally, that is as it ought to be. Therefore, the House would be beside itself with delight and quite ecstatic at the proposition put forward by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  that the proposed development be referred to the Public Works Committee. Phase 1 of this proposal is a very large development. It will bring enormous benefit not only to that part of Queensland but also to the whole State and, in so doing, will bring enormous development to Australia. 
It is a fact of modern life that airports are the modern-day counterparts of seaports. Cities, states and nations have been built around seaports in the past. Modern day airports are the necessary accompaniment to that development. Brisbane and south-east Queensland have been disadvantaged for years in that they have had the worst capital city airport in Australia. To get the proposal to the stage that it has now reached- reference to the Public Works Committee- has required a lot of effort. The reports of various bodies, such as the Bureau of Transport Economics, have had to be put aside. The Bureau 's report was a poor report and an incorrect report. It was tabled in the middle of 1975. 
The honourable member for Denison has his usual sense of proportionate sagacity. He is quite correct. We have all been fighting for this for many years. I will give one example of its benefits to the area. During the 20 days embracing the Commonwealth Games- that is, those days on each side of the actual games participation period- that part of Queensland will lose between $4.5m and $6m merely because it has an inadequate international airport. That is big money over a short period. 
In another way this reference by the Government is welcomed because it is a giant capital work. It is the first part of a capital work which embraces $170m and, as such, the economic effects in that region of such a capital work will be quite enormous. The effects will exist in terms of business activity, employment activity and all the ripple effects that flow from a beneficial infrastructure development. The ultimate nature of the airport, as we understand it, is that there will be three runways. I would not expect that the three runways would be constructed this side of the year 2000, and I am certainly not pressing that they be constructed. Environmental studies have been made on the three runway developments, that is, the two parallel runways and runway 16/34. Perhaps my friend the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  can tell me whether that is correct. 
The honourable member carries a computer-like mind,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  so he understands these matters. 
-Of course the honourable member for Fadden does not carry a computer-like mind but he is always calculating things. Some people have said that he is subject to the disease called compoxitosis- an overindulgence in the use of computers. So it is that order of development which we are looking at ultimately, but certainly not between now and the middle 1980s. 
The spin-off effects for that region of Queensland are enormous, not only economically but socially. There are spin-off effects in terms of the new floodway for Brisbane. In fact the flood runoff in the north of Brisbane will be improved by up to 30 per cent. The governments that had experience of what happened in 1974 when half the city was under water realise that flood runoff is extremely important. With the floodway development there will be the capacity to develop a new marina. That will be welcomed by people in the north of Brisbane. The capacity to develop a new forest area will also be welcomed. 
So I welcome very much this reference to the Public Works Committee. I know that that Committee is composed of sensible men who want to get about their work in a quick and just manner. 
The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  is the  Chairman  of the Committee and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  is the  Deputy Chairman.  I know that they are possessed completely of their responsibility in looking at this work. They are men of sense and of sensibility, and they know the work's urgency. I know that they are aware of the absolutely overriding and complete national importance of such a work. I am delighted that the Minister has referred it to the Public Works Committee and I am delighted also to have had the support of all Queensland members and senators over the years in this regard. The honourable member for Bowman has been jumping to his feet on this matter for some time. The honourable member for Fadden also deserves to be mentioned. He carried on the battle for the airport over other years, as did the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson). 
-A number of Victorian members even supported it. They are all beside themselves with delight at this proposal because they know how great it is. I congratulate the Minister and the Government. I am looking forward to the day on which both the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will do two things: They will wield the first pick and perhaps one of them will drive the first bulldozer. I hope that they do not collide. 
-Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware of proposals for subsidies in the form of money to be paid by government to political parties in Australia? Does any concern embrace him, particularly if such money is paid to parties devoted to the disintegration of the Australian system, for example, the Communist Party? Finally, can he explain how such new payments can be proposed from the taxpayer's dollar at the same time as entertaining a proposal for a reduction in the taxpayer's dollar paid as taxation? 
-I give notice of my intention to present at the next sitting a Bill  for an Act to prevent the use of public moneys to subsidise political parties and election candidates. The short title will be the Political Subsidies (Prevention of Payment) Bill 1 979. 
-This is a debate on four Bills- the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill, the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill 1979 [No. 2], the Telecommunications Amendment Bill and the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 2). They are being debated cognately because they are related measures. The House has listened to a 40- minute speech by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He is a very intelligent member of the House. Having listened to him the first time these Bills were before the House, I heard him deliver himself of many tensions he felt in respect of the legislation. I thought that he was in a sense upon a couch trying to release the tensions. He was concerned, for example, about the time being allowed for the debate, interruptions to the debate, the time he would be speaking and inadequate time being allowed for prior briefing in respect of the debate. Today, of course, he was given the privilege of being granted an extension of time in which to speak. I hope that, having delivered himself of all these tensions, he is more relaxed because as a result of what we on the Government side will say in this debate a few more tensions will be created. They deserve to be put in his own mind and in the minds of Opposition supporters because they concern the substance of the amendments which the Opposition proposes to move, especially the substance of the amendments foreshadowed in respect of the ASIO Bill. 
I want to deal with just a few points but before doing so I want to put in perspective just how important security legislation in fact is. Ultimately security concerns the defence of the realm, both domestically and externally. When the Profumo scandal hit the United Kingdom, the inquiry under Lord Denning of the Court of Appeals made it perfectly clear that that investigation was concerned ultimately with the Profumo affair because it was concerned with the defence of the realm. When a charter which is designed to balance corporate responsibility and personal rights is given to a security organisation the ultimate purpose of that charter is the defence of a country. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, it needs to be remembered, is not a policy agency. It is a gatherer of information and an advisory agency. In that sense attempts to make comparisons between it and the American organisations are not fair because it is not an executive agency, as the American agencies are and as they have been. All the difficulties that have arisen in that country have arisen because there has been this confusion of roles and confusion of responsibilities. When a security organisation fails a nation is in jeopardy. When it does not operate satisfactorily a nation is in jeopardy. When it operates badly human rights are endangered. Here we have a charter that is concerned with the corporate personality of Australia and of persons within Australia. Therefore its proper function can be a matter of life and death. In security matters this is always so. 
In the Senate 90 amendments were proposed to the legislation. On this occasion the Labor Party Opposition has come down to 28 foreshadowed amendments. So a total of 1 1 8 amendments have been proposed. 
-I do not deny that. I thank the honourable member for the information which was already available. The proposition from members of the Opposition is that they are not opposed to the ASIO legislation yet they put forward a multitude of amendments so as to cut off the Organisation 's arms and legs and effectively emasculate it. I will demonstrate how that could happen. Having read some of the propositions put forward by the honourable member for Melbourne Pons  (Mr Holding)  at the Adelaide conference of the Australian Labor Party I think that he has a little explaining to do as to his attitude on a variety of matters. 
The House should consider the consequences when a security organisation fails. I will give examples of both domestic and international significance. When Benes was the Foreign Minister and subsequently the leader of Czechoslovakia between the two world wars, the ultimate burden he carried into negotiations in the late 1930s was the fact that his own security organisation failed to inform him of the strife developing between ethnic groups within his own country. He was seriously misinformed. That is an example of the failure of a domestic security organisation. It is a matter of history. As a result, except for a short time after World War II, Czechoslovakia has never again enjoyed freedom. In November last year the Central Intelligence Agency, the American overseas agency, informed the American President that no tension was developing in the Middle East and that everything in Iran was correct. I do not know whether the United States could have done anything about the situation in Iran but the American President was very seriously misinformed. As a result so much of American foreign policy in respect of the Middle East fell apart. That event has had consequences for Australia. Everybody who puts petrol into a petrol tank knows of them. If a security agency fails- where it operates domestically- the nation is in danger. History indicates that. If a security organisation fails in relation to foreign commitment the foreign policy of a country can fall apart. 
When the Opposition speaks to this legislation it is appropriate to remember a little history. It is not so easy to put aside all that occurred when former  Senator Murphy  was Attorney-General. That situation needs to be recalled. In 1971-72  Senator Murphy  made no threat that when he got into power he would lead a raid on ASIO. But when he got the power such a raid occurred. When in 1979 the Opposition says that if it gets into power in 1980 it will not lead a raid on ASIO, what guarantee is there that there will not be a repeat of the former circumstance? Why does 1979-80 represent for the Opposition so much more purity than did 1 97 1 -72 in relation to our security organisation? I merely ask the House to consider for a few moments the clear parallels between the two periods. The Opposition hopes to gain power at the end of 1 980. We know and it is well attested that there was a psychological despair within the Australian security agency at the time of the raid. Overseas bodies which dealt with ASIO were concerned. They wanted to know what former  Senator Murphy  did not do. They wanted to know what did not occur before the ties could be reforged. It is appropriate at this time to look back for half a dozen years and remember what occurred then. Why will it be so different if the same circumstances develop in the future? There is a lot of explaining to do. That explaining ought to occur during the course of this debate. What is different? 
I want to deal with a couple of measures which have been proposed. At this stage of the debate I have only a few minutes in which to do so. I merely say that ASIO can be killed by a succession of wounds and contradictory amendments. We accept the Opposition's words of reassurance but do they mean much? I refer to a proposition which has been put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition today and which has been mentioned at great length by the prime mentor for the Opposition in this matter,  Senator Evans.  It concerns the proposal for a regular judicial review under the aegis of a judge, perhaps of the Supreme Court, every three years. That proposition sounds dreadfully reasonable, totally innocent, and completely innocuous. But is it innocuous? What is the significance of such a proposition? A judicial review is not a simple review like a financial audit. It is a review of the practices and the principles of an organisation, who it has contacted, what it has done, how it has done it and so on. There are many judges in Australia liable to be picked for such a judicial review. There are well over 100 Supreme Court judges in Australia. I can immediately think of a couple whose names would only have to be dropped for the security organisation to be in a shambles within a week. I mention one, although he is not a Supreme Court judge. If the Opposition said that it would appoint Jimmy Staples to look at the organisation it would be destroyed within a week. 
It is an extraordinary proposition that has been put forward. The House should understand that the proposition is that this legislation should be referred to a legislation committee instead of being considered in a committee of the whole House. In other words, we are concerned not only with the rights of people, but in this case also with the rights of members of Parliament. Because of its very nature, a legislation committee is concerned with the ability of a limited number of members of Parliament to intervene and to speak- 
-Thirteen to 19 members compared with 124 members in this place. Legislation committees were developed for matters of convenience so that the House would not be held up in the operation of its business. What the Government proposes is that the attention of the whole House shall be directed to the Committee stage of this legislation. It shall not be confined- 

 Honourable members interjecting- 


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Lilley will resume his seat. The level of conversation and disorderliness is too high. I ask honourable members to remain silent. 
-I think the Opposition is showing an unnecessary fear with respect to the word 'ultimately'. Quite frankly I do not understand the concern the Opposition is showing for this word. Reading through the Senate debates, I suggest that the same kind of concern was shown by the Opposition there, but it never came through in the substance of the propositions the Opposition put forward for the deletion of the word 'ultimately'. Of course this whole section requires that there be judgment. Since there has to be a judgment about an action which has not yet occurred- that is what we are talking about; the overthrow of a constitutional government- therefore there have to be difficulties. 
I turn my attention to the word 'ultimately'. Let me give an example. If a series of actions take place, which on all accounts can be quite similar to one another, but one of which has an ultimate intention of bringing about the overthrowing or the destroying of a constitutional government of the Commonwealth or a State, that can be very different from a similar action whose ultimate aim is not to do that. Let me give honourable members an example from recent history. I choose a strike, not because it was a strike, but because it is appropriate. When there were the great strikes on the coalfields in New South Wales during the late 1940s, the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Chifley,  was very concerned. We all know that he took a very deliberate and unique action in respect of those coal strikes. He was concerned not merely because it was another strike, but because involved in that strike were quite powerful communist elements, who made no bones of the fact that they intended to alter the nature of government within Australia. So  Mr Chifley  took quite deliberate action. Going back to the earlier strikes, the great strikes of the 1890s, they were just as effective. They held up economic life in those days just as greatly as did the strikes on the coalfields in the 1940s. But the strikes in the 1890s were Australian strikes about Australian issues and there was no intention to have, as the final end of those strikes, a change to the constitutional process within the States at that time. 
Those two actions which, on looking at them, could be on all fours similar, could have and ultimately were judged to have a different final aim and end. I suggest, therefore, that to take out the word 'ultimately' would destroy that capacity to make different judgments about those two events because different judgments were made by those in constitutional power and those events were blessed with authority at each time. To take out the word 'ultimately', I believe, would do a disservice and would betray an unnecessary anxiety on the part of the Opposition. I turn it round the other way: If 'ultimately' is taken out and if judgment is to be made as to what would be a subversive action, is the task too difficult to accomplish? If it is taken out one has to demonstrate that there is an approximate and almost immediate relationship between the action contemplated and the revolutionary overthrow of a government of the Commonwealth or the State. If there is to be an approximate and immediate relation between the two, that is a task that is so difficult that it would be almost impossible to accomplish. The hurdle would be too great. 
So I suggest that for sound reasons and without having any secondary aim about the word, ultimately' ought to be left in. If it is taken out, the task is too great and too impossible to prove. If it is left in one can make an appropriate judgment between those who are undertaking a course of action which may have several connections to it and several gradations of incidents to it, but whose ultimate aim is a revolutionary aim and whose final course of action can be a revolutionary aim. We ought not to put that proposition out of our minds and we ought not to remove that series of actions from others which would contemplate an appropriate judgment being made as to the action itself. For those reasons I suggest that the word 'ultimately' ought to remain in the clause and, in fact, being in, it can be a protection as much as anything else. 
-This matter is not quite so obvious as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  might pretend it to be. This clause deals with activities which are directed to promoting violence so as to endanger the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth. It deals also with activities directed to promoting hatred so as to endanger the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth. The Opposition suggests that the words 'or hatred ' be deleted. One ought to have clearly in mind the consequences of deleting those words. The word which appeared in the sentence previously had been 'hostility'. The words 'or hatred ' appear in that position at the moment. One has to be careful that in deleting words such as these one does not make the task of those who have to place others under surveillance almost impossible. 
We know that there are people who will promote hatred for the purposes of" endangering the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. Those people deserve to be under surveillance. Their activities deserve to be viewed. So the whole clause concerns an incitement to people to do certain activities which endanger the Commonwealth. I can imagine many cases in which violence will be promoted. This is a danger. The Opposition agrees that we should examine that activity. The clever people do not promote violence directly. They do not get themselves directly involved in violence. The clever people fall just short of it. They may promote all the circumstances in which violence will occur and which will result in the injury to the Commonwealth that is nominated in clause 5 ( 1 )(c). One could take an overseas example. One could consider Ireland at the moment. One knows that in certain respects Ireland can be tinder dry in terms of a conflagration, and I am not talking about a bush fire. The clever people will not promote violence directly. They know that by promoting hatred they can gain a certain result. 
The affect of the amendment proposed by the Opposition is the attitude: Such people are not worth watching. They are not worth keeping an eye on. We say that they are. Let us have a look at some examples that have occurred in other countries. In Czechoslovakia in the late 1930s there was tension among what I call the Germanic groups. Some of that tension took the form of physical violence. Much of it was caused by hatred that was promoted among the groups in Czechoslovakia. The hatred that was promoted was as subversive- in fact history verifies it- as the actual physical violence that was promoted. The effect of the amendment proposed by the Opposition would be to require surveillance of those people who are promoting physical violence but not of those who are promoting the cause of physical violence. I suggest that to produce that kind of gap in clause 5 ( 1 ) (c) would be very serious indeed and that ought to be resisted. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition spoke for a short time. I will not take my full time. But I would add this: Australia has many ethnic groups. People come from overseas with legitimately high feelings and with very great loyalties. Nobody disputes that proposition. But situations can arise among groups in a community and hatred can be promoted which would cause, and which would have the intention of causing, an injury to the Commonwealth. The promotion of such hostility or hatred with an intention that I have mentioned deserves to be watched. It should not be ignored. For those reasons I suggest that the clause deserves to be supported and that the proposal to delete the words 'or hatred ' would leave a gap that would be impossible to fill. 
-My remarks are related to certain events in Queensland. They are related to the circumstances surrounding the next Senate election for that State. Not since 1943 has the Australian Labor Party won the Senate in Queensland. It has quite clearly been the most successful State in Australia for the Liberal and Country parties or the Liberal and the National Country parties in the Senate. I will relate two instances. At the double dissolutions of 1974 and 1975 six out of 10 coalition senators were returned for Queensland. It is known that the parties achieved similar success at the double dissolution in 1951. Therefore, the parties have been magnificently successful. They have had unparalleled success. The joint team has enjoyed that success. The plain fact is that the success has not been emulated by any other State. Why, then, should a change be proposed? Various reasons have been given. Let me have at least the right or the freedom to put a point of view other than that which is generally put. 
Why should I show concern? Three issues have been indicated as being the negotiating points for the proposal for a joint Senate team in Queensland. I say how false it is and what nonsense it is to propose these three issues. They are three issues that occur at a State level. What party in Australia would be induced to take action at a federal level for a trinity of State issues. Let me recite them to the House quickly. The three State issues are: In Queensland there is no public accounts committee, there are certain amendments to redistributions and certain proposals to Acts concerning street marches. Therefore it is proposed that action should be taken at a federal level in terms of a joint Senate team. Not one vote in the Federal Parliament can influence these issues. Were a thousand senators or members to be elected to this Parliament they could have no influence whatsoever. As a Federal member in this place, let me say that that process and that argument have to be total nonsense. I do not use any stronger word. I am aware when I say this that Federal endorsements in my own State have been held up. Nevertheless what must be said must be said because the issues have been touted in the public domain. Honesty demands that it be said. I also share the concern of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the consequences of actions proposed with respect to Senate elections. Prairie fires- like erysipelas- are not readily contained; nor will I believe that such disputes will be contained within State boundaries given the strong personalities involved. Some claim, for example, that recent by-elections in Queensland give the green light for any action whatsoever. The Redcliffe by-election, on any serious analysis, certainly does not. I cannot share the exultation that has obviously engulfed others with respect to those events. 
It is a very great honour to be given the authority to be a public representative. That honour should not be frittered away. One's aim ultimately has to be to serve the common good. To do so one needs colleagues and partners, and one needs continuing colleagues and partners. One must remember above all that the Australian Labor Party is the alternative government. It is our competitor and it is the organisation that is poised best to benefit from unnecessary conflict. To turn away from that knowledge could be disastrous and, I believe, could be foolish beyond the wildest fear. 
-When members of the Opposition were running around looking for a title for their matter of public importance they looked at page 5 or 6 of today's Melbourne  Age  and thought: 'There is a line that we want to run'. So they have come up with this proposition in their matter of public importance. I suggest, rather sadly, that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has made himself a hireling in this matter. What he has said is contrary to common sense and to the practices of the Labor Party. Let me point out just one or two matters. I have no knowledge of the Joh Bjelke-Petersen Foundation Fund. I do not know those who have contributed to it, and I do not know what people intend to do with it. But I do know that when John Curtin House was opened here in Canberra there was a suggestion that section 51(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act ought to be enshrined in the front foyer because it had been so beneficial for those who had raised the money for that building. I will read out that sub-section: 
All losses and outgoings to the extent to which they are incurred in gaining or producing the assessable income, or are necessarily incurred in carrying ona business for the purpose of gaining or producing such income, shall be allowable deductions except to the extent to which they are losses or outgoings of capital, or of a capital, private or domestic nature . . . 
That provision has been in the Act for very many years, while Liberal-National Country Party governments and Australian Labor Party governments have been in power. Neither of those brands of government proposed to alter the Act. Yet members of the Labor Party come into this House and put forward this absurd and nonsensical proposition. In regard to this proposition one or two points ought to be made. They are simply that whether the money that is paid by some contributor to a fund is tax deductible remains a matter of confidentiality between that person or organisation and the Commissioner of Taxation; and, if tax deductibility were not granted, no doubt people would then have the right to appeal on the basis of that section of the Act. I do not know whether there have been any appeals or not, but I do know that the matter of tax deductibility is one of confidentiality. The Commissioner of Taxation has a discretion in determining that matter. I do not want to be provocative in this debate, but I mention in passing that the discretion which members of the Labor Party would give to a Commissioner of Taxation is greater than that which they would give to the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. So confidentiality and the right of appeal remain. There was a legitimate attempt, which would have been a noteworthy one, to enshrine that section of the Act in the foyer of John Curtin House. 
I go a little further and say that I am puzzled as to why the Labor Party has brought forward this matter of public importance. Does the Labor Party want to destroy its own advertisers? A few moments ago I had the privilege of looking through a Labor Party journal known as the  Labor Star of Victoria.  It is put out by the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party and is nominated as its official journal. Under certain circumstances, advertising in that journal could qualify for income tax deduction. I suggest that before members of the Labor Party bring forward a matter such as this, they contact a few organisations and a few people to see whether tax deductions for advertising in that journal is to be eliminated. For example, they might contact one of the multinationals in Australia- Lever and Kitchen Pty Ltd, which is not a small business and which has an advertisement in that journal. It is legitimate to ask: Is that advertising a tax deductible item? Does it qualify? Has the honourable member for Gellibrand asked? Has he protested against the very fact that the company might even consider it to be a tax deductible item? In the same journal there is an advertisement for the Australian Labor Party's economic policy with a couple of clever graphs spread over a couple of pages. 
When I looked through that economic policy, nowhere could I see the proposition that section 5 1 ( 1 ) of the Income Tax Assessment Act was to be altered, repealed or abolished. So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you can understand my puzzlement and why I arrive reluctantly at the opinion that today the honourable member for Gellibrand has made himself rather a hireling for some tired and worn out political campaign. I have looked through other journals and in those journals I find that Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd has advertised. Did members of the Australian Labor Party ever check whether that would be a tax deductible item or did they say: No, we are going to raise this matter in the Parliament on Tuesday; so get in for your cut because next week you may find that it is no longer a tax deductible item '. 
I do not know whether Philips Industries Holdings Pty Ltd is a small show. I think it is a rather large business. It is probably based in Victoria; so it could be a large business. Was that a tax deductible item? Those of us who come from the north merely ask our colleagues in the southern States to bring a little consistency to the argument and apply the same rule across the board fairly and honestly. In one of the same journals is an advertisement for the International Year of the Child. I think that ultimately some Commonwealth money is involved in the International Year of the Child. That may attract some form of tax deductibility that will excite the imagination of the honourable member for 
Gellibrand. He will say that we should not allow it. 
In this discussion the Opposition made one or two serious errors. I will mention one or two other matters in passing as a glancing blow. It seems that the people who are raising money for the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation are the same people who raised money for John Curtin House. But there was an extra rake-off in relation to John Curtin House. The Labor Party was in Government at the time and it leased John Curtin House back from itself. Its members wore two different hats around the same conference table and passed leasing arrangements from one side to another. Would the Joh Bjelke-Petersen Foundation dare to come at that kind of manipulation? Criticism is always valid; we merely ask that there be a certain area of consistency in the criticism. 
I turn to the points that have been made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. There is confidentiality with respect to tax deductible items. There is a right of appeal if certain people feel that a contribution should not be tax deductible. The section of the Income Tax Assessment Act which has been quoted by the honourable member for Gellibrand and which may or may not have been used by those who have contributed is the same section which the Opposition administered when it was in government. It is the same section under which people contribute to Labor Party journals and then claim tax deductibility for those contributions. The same fund raiser was used for John Curtin House, with the added bonus on that occasion that the Labor Government leased the building. 
The title of this matter of public importance, The use of the income tax law for party political purposes', is very important. The most dreadful party political purpose for which an income tax Act could be used would be to make a dependent economy, whether by way of tax deductions or income tax rates. The Government is being accused of allowing a section of the Act to operate which ought not to operate. That accusation has been made by those who, during their three years in power, led the world in the rate of increase of tax which they collected from the Australian people. Let me recite one or two figures. I do not like reciting too many on an occasion such as this. Of the 23 industrialised countries in the world in 1972 Australia had the third lowest rate of increase in the taxation take. During the next three years Australia led the world. In 1973 it was first. In 1 974 it was second. In 1 975 Australia slipped momentarily to fifth place. On that occasion it was beaten by Malta, Turkey and other such grand nations. 
Those who concern themselves with income tax ought to look at their own record. After all, the record is clear as to what they did. Their intentions were obvious. The accusation is being made of the Government by the person who a few years ago said: 
The Leader of the Opposition has claimed recently that in this financial year the Australian Government will collect 36 per cent more in income tax than it collected last year. This figure is quite incorrect as I will demonstrate shortly ... In Tact, the 36 per cent is quite erroneous. If we do the sum properly it will be seen that in fact the increase becomes 32 per cent. 
That was the advice given in this House on 19 March 1974 by the gentleman who introduced this matter into the House today. We can legitimately ask- we ought to do so- whether the Opposition is really serious about income tax. Is it really serious about the tax take? Opposition members will say: 'Do not take much notice of what we did in the past. That is all over and forgotten. We would not do it again.' That reminds me of the anthropologist who visited a tribe of cannibals in Africa. He said to the head man: 'I am told that you still follow that disgusting habit of cannibalism. Is that so?' 'Oh, no,' said the chief, 'We consumed our last man yesterday.' Does anybody believe, therefore, the plea of innocence made by the Opposition in respect of income tax? Does anybody believe that it would not consume the taxpayer the next time it was in power as it did during the three years it enjoyed power from 1972 to 1975? 
I return to where I began in relation to this matter of public importance. The Opposition is worried about the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation. It says that it is concerned about a section of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I presume that that section of the Act is being administered in the same way as it was during the time that the Opposition was in power. I suggest also that the benefits, directly and indirectly, to the Opposition from the administration of the Act when it was in power were greater than they are in respect of this Foundation in Queensland. Opposition members know that what I say is totally and absolutely correct. The matter ought to be looked at in that way. This matter of public importance ought to be rejected. The Opposition is hypocritical and guilty of double standards. The honourable member for Gellibrand ran a story today that does not hold water. It is a disgraceful matter of public importance. Above all, the honourable member for Gellibrand has made the worst mistake of taking his lead from a story probably written by a cub journalist of the Melbourne  Age. 
-The battle of El Alamein was a turning point in World War II in more ways than is generally imagined. As we know, from that time on the Allied forces in North Africa turned the tide, the reputation of Montgomery was made and that of Field Marshal Rommel began to be unmade. It was a turning point in another way, because during the week of the battle of El Alameincertainly during that month- there was released in Great Britain the first of a trilogy on the interests of Lord Beveridge which he pursued in the latter years of his life. That work was entitled Social Insurance and Allied Services'. It was the kind of work which gave a foretaste of a better post-war world for war-weary soldiers and a better post-war world, after 1945, than the soldiers and their families had experienced during the 1 9 10s, the 1 920s and the 1 930s. 
Within two years the same Lord Beveridge took part in a second event, which was the release of the famous work which revolutionised the responsibilities of governments in the Western world. This was his work on full employment in a free society. It merely said that demand could be so managed in the Western world as to cause work to be available for those who desired it. But almost within the release of that work the seeds of problems were sown. At a meeting in early 1944 Lord Beveridge was told that in order to bring about his aim it would be necessary that there be restrictions on arbitration and restrictions with respect to collective bargaining and that there be certain price control measures. At that time the union leaders told him that they rejected this, that the common sense of the unions could be relied upon to restrain wild inflation, and that any element of regimentation was unacceptable in peacetime. The other side of that argument is simply this: Were those restrictions and obligations to be put aside, his aim of full employment in a free society could not be consummated. I merely mention that in passing. 
I then come to the third interest in Lord Beveridge 's life. This was in the late 1950s and early 1960s. He then began to be worried about the social effects of what he regarded as continuous inflation upon the aged, and the ensuing problems in relation to the requirements of social services within his community. I recite that story in order to indicate to the House that encapsulated within that period of less than 20 years are the problems that we have today. There was a problem with respect to the organisation of society for full employment and the accompanying problem of the organisation of society so as to deliver social security for those who require and demand that it be delivered. Those are the main aggregates of the matters with which we are dealing. But the unstated assumption of all that Beveridge said was that there had to be transfers within society, whether within a health system- of which the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  would be aware- or within a social security system. 
From time to time I have heard leaders of the Opposition say: 'We do not want the young and the healthy to insure; we want them to pull out of insurance.' It should be quite clear that they are abusing the principle of insurance, which is that those who are in need can gain a transfer from those who are not so much in need, and that they are abusing the principle of social justice within a tax system where some pay and some benefit. The payers and the beneficiaries cannot always be the same people. The proposition that has been put forward from time to time- namely, to pull the young and the healthy out of the health insurance system- is an abuse not only of Beveridge 's principles but also of reasonable principles of social justice. 
Therefore, what is required in a government is that the twin tasks that Beveridge faced in his latter years be accomplished together- especially since 1973. It was not so difficult to accomplish them in Australia until that time, but in 1973 this country and the rest of the world had experienced the external effects of the oil crisis. I ask this House to bear in mind the response of Australia to the oil crisis of 1973-74, and what would be a Labor government's response to a similar crisis of 1978 and 1979-80. If we go back to 1973-74, we now know that there were three countries which responded to that crisis in a very careful and very gauged manner. They did not over-expand their economies; they controlled their economies and their people accepted that control. Those three countries were West Germany, Japan and Taiwan. At first their performance was not as good as that of Australia, but in all the subsequent years their performance has been incredibly better than that of the countries that ignored that lesson. 
Which were the countries which did quite the opposite? They were Australia, Italy, the United Kingdom and, to a significantly lesser extent, the United States. I merely say that in response to any crisis, whether it be the oil crisis of the 1973 period or the one which is presently upon the Western world, honourable members should ask themselves whether Australia is going to go for the short term solution or the long term solution. Had one looked at Australia in 1973-74 one might have thought that it was doing reasonably well; but it had sown the seeds of its own disaster at that time. Therefore, one has to look at an ultimate solution and not at a short term solution close at hand. 
It is not unlike the story that is told of a very famous British journalist who was interested in world affairs. He saw Mao Tse-tung three years before he died. He said to Mao Tse-tung: 'What do you think the world would have been like had  Mr Khrushchev  been assassinated and not  President  Kennedy'? Mao Tse-tung thought for a moment and he said: ' I do not think  Mr Onassis  would have married  Mrs Khrushchev.'  In other words, one is dealing with a broad and ultimate solution and not with the easy solutions close at hand, no matter how inviting the smart responses might happen to be. Our task therefore is to bring about a series of events. We have to consider Australia in the 1983-84 period and not make all our judgments upon the six months between the middle and the end of 1979. That was the way judgments were made previously. 
How is that being accomplished? What is happening to public expenditure in Australia? I am invited to refer to one area because of the proposition put forward by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I mention the aged. He asserted that the aged in Australia are doing badly. That is not correct. It is a foolish proposition. The honourable member does not know what he is talking about. Let me give one or two figures to the House. I dislike giving too many figures but these deserve to be given. In the middle 1960s less than 1 1 per cent of the total government outlays were directed towards welfare for the aged. That included precise programs for the aged and others in which the aged share, such as the health program in which the Minister for Health, who is at the table, has some interest In 1979 that figure is just on 19 percent. 
-Total expenditure on welfare for the aged has increased from 1 1 per cent of government outlays to 1 9 per cent. That is an enormous increase. The Government and, through it the Australian people, has given that welfare to the aged. The Government is honoured to give it. At the present rate of increase between 23 per cent and 24 per cent of total government outlays will be spent on welfare for the aged by 1984-85. That will include explicit programs, such as aged pensions and aged persons' hostels, and other programs in which the aged share, such as the general hospital and health program. We should not play politics with this fact. We should recognise it without deliberately trying to cause a conflict of generations. Were that to occur Australia would be the loser. 
One has to see what kind of economic policy can be grafted on to this drawing power in terms of public expenditure. If there were to be resistance to an increase in public expenditure in Australia, a government that would go into that field with its ears back, having the drawing power to which I have referred, could commit a grave error. I was concerned, therefore, to observe that the Opposition does not seem to have learnt much. Knowing that there is that justified drawing power in relation to welfare, we have heard a confession of the general taxation policy of the Opposition. This will exacerbate and worsen the situation to which I referred. I now refer to a very interesting lecture, the F. E. Chamberlain lecture, given by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in Perth on 2 March 1979. He is one of the people who criticise us with respect to taxation. On page 11 of the Chamberlain lecture he said: 
The challenge to traditional democratic socialism has been expressed in a number of deeply dispiriting doctrines. One example, is the rapid spread  or  philosophies based on lower taxes and smaller government. Fraserism was one  or  the earliest expressions of these philosophies, although  Mr Fraser's  practice has been rather erratic. This sort of approach strikes directly at the conventional democratic socialist notion that equality and equity can only be assured by a stronger public sector. 
If we have a stronger public sector we will also have a stronger public taxation sector. Those factors have to accompany one another. The Leader of the Opposition poured scorn on the late Richard Crosland who argued that welfare could be delivered by means of greater economic growth; that greater economic growth would generate the resources that were able to be redistributed. Having confessed the total taxation policy to which the Opposition is committed, the Leader of the Opposition rubbished the fact that increases in taxation can be avoided by having a faster rate of total economic growth. He put Crosland in his place. Going back to what Beveridge said, I am simply arguing that one has to look at the total growth policies responsible for employment and the policies with respect to public expenditure which themselves are intimately related to the rate of inflation. It is not surprising, therefore, that at the Australian Labor Party Conference in Adelaide on 18 July 1979, having listened to the Opposition's oil policy which was decided subsequent to the discussions on economic policy, the Premier of New South Wales said: 
I think we had a bit teo much of that on the economic policy, when we went on for hours and got words slipped in here and great victories and great losses, but in the result we finished up with a bit of a hotch-potch of a policy. 
What is a hotch-potch of a policy? Is it just a jumble? Is it a mess? Some people say more precisely that it is a mutton broth with lots of vegetables in it. I do not want to parody that proposition. We should ask ourselves who are the lambs that will be led to the slaughter as a result of that hotch-potch policy and that mutton broth. Above all, the Australian taxpayers will be led to the slaughter. Let there be no mistake about that whatsoever. We ask that these matters be understood. We ask that they be considered because they deserve to be considered. Australians will tolerate only bearable levels of taxation. They will not tolerate levels of taxation that are unacceptable. If a government wants to embark upon all kinds of experiments in addition to the drawing power to which I have referred, the taxation grab will be up in the future as it was in the past. 
Let me recite one or two pieces of evidence to which I referred this afternoon. They are worth referring to whatever one says. A country will tolerate a level of taxation which is appropriate to its people. Quite clearly, Australians will not tolerate a high level of taxation. They will tolerate a level of taxation significantly below that which is tolerable in West Germany, for example, owing to the different nature of its people. A judgment has to be made in respect of each country. This fact should be remembered about the Opposition's term in office: During the three years it was in power the rate of increase of taxation was the highest of any industrialised country in the world. In other words, the rate of increase in taxation beat every other country which has a market economy and for which taxation rates are measured. As I said this afternoon, in 1972 out of 23 or 24 industrialised countries Australia was 21st or 22 nd in the rate of increase in taxation. It was at the bottom of the list. The next year Australia was first. In the subsequent year it was second and in the third year it was fifth. Its performance over those three years beat that of every other nation in the world. 
If people learn nothing from the past that is up to them, but it is appropriate to realise what would happen if the same people with the same philosophy, ignoring the experiences of the past, were returned to power. This philosophy is supported by the F. E. Chamberlain lecture in Perth in March this year by the Leader of the Opposition. Can anybody reasonably say that the Opposition would not repeat its performance and do again what it did previously? I merely ask the House to consider the proposition. After all, everybody wants taxation to be reduced. One does not have to be a Lafferite to do it. The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  would agree with that. One might have to acknowledge the words of  Dr Clark  in 1945. To go upon the same path that was traversed before would be very damaging indeed. 
Each country has to make this judgment in terms of taxation. How can a party come into this Parliament and say that the taxation rate should be reduced and at the same time say: 'If we get into power we will pay political candidates money; we will pay political parties money. We will pay the taxpayers' dollars to those who are standing for election, whether it be in terms of parties or persons'? How are we to believe, under those circumstances, that there could possibly be a stabilisation of taxation rates with the Opposition in power? I ask the House merely to consider these matters, and to consider them very carefully. 
I return to where I began. Lord Beveridge, during the last 20 years of his life, was concerned with three features of life. One was the provision of an adequate level of social security and social services within a country. That concern was manifest during the depths of World War II and had more effect than many would imagine in stabilising the democracies after World War II. Lord Beveridge was committed to full employment but with the necessary control of demand that was part of full employment. In his latter years, he was concerned with the effects of inflation upon social security and old age. We merely say that each of those aggregates deserves to be considered and has to be considered. If a government comes into this chamber and ignores them it commits a very grave fault and it ought to be rejected for committing such a fault. I just do not understand how anyone can promote the doctrines that have been promoted by the Leader of the Opposition and this afternoon by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and others. They remind me of a famous Cook Island political leader who went to New Zealand where he was able to observe a famous political party in operation and said: 'That mob are so inept that if they formed a firing squad they would make a circle and face inwards'. We are concerned about ensuring that when members of the Opposition face inwards they fire the correct bullets with respect to an appropriate rate of taxation, show appropriate concern as to the main aggregates in the economy and, above all, do not repeat during the oil crisis of 1979 the kind of infamy that they repeated during the oil crisis of 1973. 
-by leave-I respond to the statement by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  as  chairman  of the Standing Committee on Expenditure. I heard only indirectly that a statement was likely to be made by the Minister. I express a little disappointment that we were not informed that an interim statement was to come from the Minister. That is the usual practice in the House. The Committee will look forward to a further statement. Before that ultimate statement is made we would expect to be able to have consultations with the Minister which is the usual practice when statements are made on committee reports. 
I was fascinated at the long plank which the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  made between his conception of the deficit and what the Loan Bill is about. For the first minute or two of my remarks I wish to refer to the precise terms of the Bill and then I shall deal with one or two of the points made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. This Bill is intended to fund the Consolidated Revenue Fund in the early months of the financial year so that it can operate for the rest of the year. The Consolidated Revenue Fund, as every honourable member knows, is the fund from which the principal payments by the Government are made, whether to the States, to persons or for administrative purposes. So the method of funding of that fund is intimately related to what the economy can do between now and the end of the financial year or, more particularly, the time that the next Budget is brought down. That is what the Bill is about. 
Its purpose is also to ensure that defence expenditure is allocated appropriately. This year the allocation is of the order of $ 1,800m, which is a little in excess of the expected deficit in that fund of $ 1 ,604m. So the Bill is for that purpose; it is a mechanical Bill. But the important aspect of the measure is that it therefore leads quite logically to consideration of two other matters. They are the matters on which the honourable member for Gellibrand spoke at such length, namely, the nature of the deficit to be made up of the credits and the debits ofthe three funds- the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loan Fund and the Trust Fund- as well as the conception of the interest rate structure in the Australian economy. 
Having said that, I wish to cross over immediately and to make one or two points on the comments made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. He would know that nobody on this side of the House or anywhere else has a deficit mania. It is merely said that deficits are quite important and that the manner in which they are arrived at is quite important. The honourable member being, I hope, a student of history, would know that when the first speech was made in this House proposing a deficit, when Theodore proposed his Fiduciary Notes Issue Bill- I think it was for  1 6m in the context of the depressionthe deficit was proposed to be one deliberately arrived at for the purpose of increasing production, increasing growth, creating employment and establishing an appropriate wage and interest rate policy. I am saying that a deficit has to be considered together with the other economic aggregates which are being measured and which are occurring in the economy. Nobody would say, even in a fit of stupidity, that it ought to be considered on its own or that it ought to be put somewhere and worshipped for its own sake. 
The Opposition has put forward two propositions. It suggested to the Government that its approach was wrong because the deficit was too large. Then it said that the deficit should be small. It then proposed ways in which it ought to be larger. We have a trilogy of contradictions in the one sentence. The Opposition ought to consider this proposition: If a deficit is allowed to increase enormously at the same time as there is promoted a lack of confidence, at the same time as which productivity has become negative and at the same time as which there is an increase in inflation and a rise in interest rates, the circumstances of that deficit could be very damaging to the economy. They are the precise conditions which occurred during the period that the honourable member for Gellibrand defended his own Government. It was utter gall for the honourable member for Gellibrand to upbraid the Government for increasing taxation revenue this year when in late 1974, while sitting almost in the place occupied by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield),  he stated that the tax policies of his Government were not too bad. Taxation revenue did not rise by 36 per cent that year, it rose by only 32 per cent! Now we are upbraided because the rise this year is of the order of less than half that. So I think that you immediately see,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that a number of enormous contradictions were made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
Let me indicate the circumstances under which the deficit, which he contrived and defended, blew out. A couple of years ago a very famous economist, Sidney Weuntraub, visited Australia. He had a chart on which he was able to organise all the economies of the world in terms of both their inflation rates and their increases in production. He had nine types of economies, from stationary-state economies to pure-growth economies, to inflationary economies, to slumpflation economies, to stagflation economies. But Australia's economy beat him because, of the nine types of economies which he was able to depict, Australia did not fit. It did not fit on his chart because just before the time he was here, Australia had been in a state of negflation, with an increasing deficit. What constitutes neR.flation? Negative productivity, a rapidly increasing unemployment rate, rising interest rates, and an all time high rate of inflation, plus an enormously increasing deficit constitute negflation. That is the background against which the honourable member seeks to escape the past. It is always our intention to stand on the shoulders of those who have gone a little before us to see what they did. The past is a very useful indicator of what people would do if they had power. 
Time is going on and I think I will turn to some of the points I wish to make in this debate. There we have an outline of the situation. This year the deficit is to be reduced quite significantly and it is quite clearly part of the Government's proposition that interest rates be reduced and be reduced as far as possible. The Government does not say that interest rates are to be reduced to the exclusion of everything else. The Government is not saying that it wants a low deficit in order that the country can go into an enormously deep recession, or that it would take a delight in obtaining low interest rates- perhaps even zero interest rates- if there were no growth. The Government does not say that; it says that it wants to have interest rates sufficiently low to enable a rate of growth of the economy that can be accommodated. That is the simple proposition which the Government puts forward. It knows and everybody knows that unless interest rates are brought down there will be no flexibility in what can be done with the economy. But everybody knows also that if interest rates rise the past will come back to haunt us. That aspect requires a comment. The honourable member for Gellibrand spent a few moments talking about the interest debt, the per capita debt which has to be borne by the Australian people in meeting the interest on bond issues and so on. Let me say something about the interest debt because it has risen. In 1969-70 the interest debt was of the order of $47 a person. This year, the interest debt on bond issues made in the past will be a little over $ 1 SO a person. That is too high. 
-It is a significant rise, no matter what the honourable member would like to say. But what has to be understood is this: Nothing is a hostage to the past as much as the interest people have to pay on debts negotiated. If high interest rates have been negotiated in 1973 or 1974 or 1975, that debt will continue to be met in 1979, 1980, 1981, 1982 and 1983. I was surprised that the honourable member for Gellibrand made an attempt to compartmentalise the burden of debt by saying that we could cut it off one year and look at a new beginning the next year. Honourable members opposite know that that is not rational economics; it has no rationality at all. The interest debt burden that lays upon the Australian people now was generated overwhelmingly during those three years. I will give another illustration of what I am talking about as the honourable member for Gellibrand touched on these matters. 
The honourable member for Barton has a very fertile imagination. 
-The word 'apartheid' was coined in 1943. The way in which the world has looked at South Africa and South African policies since 1948 has been increasingly determined by the conception of apartheid. It has certainly influenced increasingly Australia's foreign policy relations with South Africa and southern Africa. Having accepted that, the logic of the position is simply this: If it is judged that there are attempts to alter the very basic nature of apartheid in South 
Africa or in her territories there is an obligation on those countries whose attitudes have been determined by it to acknowledge that fact. I refer, therefore, to two events which have occurred over recent years. One of them is in respect of Namibia, the former South West African territory which is significantly under the influence of South Africa. It is regarded by many as being part of South Africa. The whole territory is of very significant strategic importance to Australia. 
From late 1977 to the present day significant changes have occurred in terms of apartheid and its application in Namibia. I mention four. In late 1977, the mixed marriage and immorality Acts were outlawed in Namibia. They are the very basis of the principle of separate development and distinct rights as between people. More recently, the National Assembly which was elected on a franchise late last year moved to outlaw the separate place of development, segregation in terms of housing and residential areas, and apartheid in terms of the use of public amenities. Therefore, when one has an attitude in foreign policy towards South Africa on account of apartheid, those changes deserve to be acknowledged and not put aside. Credit ought to be given where it is due. Similarly, with respect to Zimbabwe, as  Mrs Thatcher  said earlier, what is happening in Zimbabwe can have enormous significance for the non-white people of South Africa. The demonstration effects from outside the territory, from Namibia and Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, are enormous. 
I refer to a second event- a statement by the South African Prime Minister which was reported in this country in late August. He said that the mixed marriage and immorality Acts deserved to be looked at again. He said: 'We are living in changing times. We must adapt or die. If you are not with me you are against me.' Forgetting the biblical exegesis, the simple fact is that that attitude is now shown to be other than a cosmetic one. The fact that last weekend there were very significant revolts against the present South African Prime Minister in four by-elections indicates that the changes he is looking at and the understanding of the changes cannot be assumed to be merely cosmetic. They are not assumed to be merely cosmetic by the electorate to which he has to appeal. 
If those things are occurring- there is evidence that they are- there is an obligation upon Australia. I merely say that, insofar as foreign policy has been determined by the conception of apartheid, encouragement towards that movement both in South Africa and Namibia ought to be given. If it is not given, people cannot be blamed if they are driven back to a laager-type mentality. That would not be of assistance to anybody. It certainly would not be of assistance to Australia. We desire to remain friendly with countries without surrendering basic rights. Therefore, if a foreign policy attitude is adopted on account of a conception of basic rights and there is evidence of attempts to alter those rights there is a consequent obligation on a country to take those attempts into account. I believe that Australia ought to give tangible evidence of its encouragement towards what are two quite clear and distinct movements in Namibia and South Africa. In doing so, it may retain its friendship with a strategically important country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Deputy Prime Minister or perhaps the Treasurer. 
-This is the first occasion since 1973-74 that alterations have been proposed by a government to determinations of the Remuneration Tribunal, although on two previous occasions the implementation of a determination was postponed and on another occasion a determination was totally disallowed. So this is an important occasion. Speaking on behalf of many supporters of the Government, certainly on behalf of the committee of which I am  chairman,  I am not happy that the determinations are to be amended but accept the proposition that that will be so. It is not particularly easy to stand in this Parliament and speak in respect of the salaries and allowances of private members and senators. It is always fair game for the community, particularly for those in the community who write Press articles, to categorise politicians as rapacious hunters who are after everybody's resources. I hope to be able later to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows that that is not a true or correct statement for the Commonwealth level of government. 
There are two Bills and a foreshadowed amendment before the House. The Remuneration and Allowances Bill modifies a number of the determinations of the Tribunal. An amendment to that Bill has been foreshadowed in terms of the travelling allowances for Opposition shadow Ministers. There is also a Bill to amend the Ministers of State Act 1 952. Under that Bill it is intended to raise the amount which is available for Ministers of State by some $20,000-odd. Honourable members might ask: Why does one stand here and make these comments if they are not in defence? That is a fair proposition. Last night I was looking through a book in the Parliamentary Library. As all honourable members know, there are lots of books in the Library and there are always books of humorous quotations and jokes. If honourable members look through any of them they will always find a number of pages given over quite easily and quite readily to jokes concerning politics and politicians. Politicians wear that. It is part of the game; it is part of the business. But on occasions the truth has to be told as to what is the position. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  spoke about the people who are elected to this place. Some of the honourable members who come to this place have enormous talent. Some of them have been leaders in their professions in the community.. Having been here for anything in excess of six years it is almost impossible for them to recapture a professional or skilled position. I recollect what happened in the 1960s to a medico who became a member of this House. I refer to a former honourable member for Bowman,  Dr Wylie  Gibbs. He was an extremely talented heart surgeon. In that area he was amongst the leaders in Australia. During his six years in. this place he lost his skill in that area. He was not in touch with it to the extent that he would have been.if.he had not been a member of parliament. After his defeat in this place he did not go back precisely to his previous calling. He still functions as a medical practitioner, but some of the skill which he would have had to indulge in weekly in order to. remain in that area of medical life was lost to him. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  would acknowledge that. The people who criticise members of parliament sometimes forget those facts. If the use of a skill is not able to be demonstrated here it can be lost. Members of parliament deserve to be looked upon in that way. The return which they obtain by way of remuneration and allowances ought not to be totally ignorant of that. 
I propose to seek leave to incorporate a table in  Hansard.  I have obtained the permission of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith to do so. This table compares the movements since the middle of 1974 of the salaries and wages of members of the Federal Parliament with those for other sectors of the community. We could choose any time. Were we to go back to 1960 the movements would be the same, but we have to start at some time and the middle of 1974 was the occasion on which there was a postponement for seven or eight months of a salary rise. The House will remember that occasion. The table shows quite clearly that on any indicator whatsoever- I am concerned only with private members and senators; Ministers and others can take care of themselves- the movements for private members and senators have been the smallest detected for any section of the community. I make this point not by way of complaint or whining or whingeing but merely to make the facts known. 
The table I wish to incorporate in  Hansard  I have used for a number of years in presenting evidence to the Remuneration Tribunal. I will outline to the House a few of the figures which I think are important. From June 1974 to October 1979 average weekly earnings increased by 80 per cent to 83 per cent, depending on whether they were seasonally adjusted. The consumer price index increased by in excess of 80 per cent in that period. The increase in weighted average minimum weekly rates of pay for males and females, Federal, and for males and females, State, varied between 78 per cent and 95 per cent. The increases for the various divisions in the Commonwealth Public Service varied from 49 per cent to 55 per cent. To the present moment, the movement for a private member or senator, including the amounts provided in this Bill, has been 37 per cent. It cannot be said, on any measure whatsoever, that private members of Parliament and senators have been leading the community in terms of grabbing what is inappropriate for others. Because of the position I occupy as  chairman  of the Government members conditions committee - 
-Thank you very much. Very often, after the Tribunal publishes its report, I am besieged by journalists who say: 'You are getting too much. You are grabbing too much. Look what others are getting. You are bleeding the rest of the community'. There is one very simple answer to that, and I know that I will not get a good line in a newspaper after I say this. The answer is to recite the movements that have taken place over the period in the various journalists' awards and then go through their current log of claims before either a Federal or State arbitration commission. That is the end of the argument. No other argument can be made. I think the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  saw that done on some occasions. I am asking that this table be incorporated in  Hansard  for only one reason, that is, to make known the actual position, to sweep away the cobwebs and let some light into areas where sometimes there is a deliberate amount of obfuscation. I will also include a table which has been developed by others showing the movements in academic salaries throughout Australian universities. They have done very well. Their salary movements over the same period have varied between 68 per cent and 87 per cent, approaching 90 per cent. I say merely that the House and the country ought to know this. 
Finally, Federal private members and senators, in having condemnation heaped upon them by the community, are often confused with State upper and lower House members of Parliament. This varies between the States. I will not make any comment upon them, but I end by saying that if justice is to be done in this area the position of Federal members of parliament should not be confused with that which applies to State members, and I imagine that State members of parliament would not want to be confused with us. I have stated the position the committee felt it was in. We accept the decision that has been made, and I am sure that the Bills will pass the House. 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker. I seek leave to incorporate the tables in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910254_40_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910254_41_2.jpg"></graphic>

I do not want to cry about the Commonwealth Grants Commission but I hope tonight to make one or two comments in relation to it. I listened to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  for quite a few minutes. I want to make one point to him. Reference to per capita personal income can be a very inadequate way of comparing States. It is much more appropriate to compare household income. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  would immediately acknowledge that point. Household income takes into account so many more items than wages and salaries; for example, the returns of incorporated and unincorporated business, rural enterprise, dividends and so on. I make that point only in passing; I do not dwell on it because time is fairly short. 
The Grants Commission is a unique body. If it had a coat of arms it should have emblazoned upon that coat of arms the principle of equality in terms of public services, and only public services, among the various States. I am always delighted when a Grants Commission report comes into this place because for half a dozen years before Queensland became a claimant State I pressed for her to become such before the Grants Commission. The arguments which acted as an impediment to that application were gradually stripped away. It is interesting now to note that Queensland was the last State to come before the Grants Commission. It is now the only State which is a claimant State before that Commission. It is not a matter of Queensland demeaning itself; it is not a matter of Queensland becoming a mendicant State; it is a matter of making a rightful claim, given the nature of the public market within Australia. It is useless to say that Tasmania and South Australia do not go before the Grants Commission and that they have inherent virtue in not being claimant States before the Grants Commission because everybody with one ounce of sense knows that both States were bought off. Each State gets a subsidy of something like $50m a year from the 
Commonwealth Government through the Australian National Railways Commission which took over their respective deficit non-paying State railway systems. Let us have a look at the broad picture and be fair in respect of this matter. 
The Grants Commission is also useful in another way. By analysing what are often perceived to be State issues it is able to strip away many of the false campaigns that accompany the subject of federalism. There is always a wonderful opportunity to pursue a campaign that something should be done or not be done to forget the relative cost of doing it and how resources may be spent that otherwise ought to have been spent on any issue or any campaign whatsoever. It has been said that federalism has been likened to a contest involving clever political footwork indulged in by adversaries and supported most strongly by he who hopes to vanish across the skyline carrying off the booty. Given that definition of federalism, the Grants Commission enables that precise carrying off of the booty to be exposed. 
I think one or two points of the history of the Grants Commission are always worth recapitulating. The Commission has had its troubles and its difficulties. Some of its great difficulties, which were political, applied in respect of Tasmania, which was an original Grants Commission State. In the olden days of its determinations the Grants Commission used to examine State Budgets and make adjustments to State Budgets. It gave a grant or a negative grant to a State after comparing Budgets and the efforts made by the State in raising revenue to fund those Budgets, et cetera. There used to be a Treasurer in Tasmania who waged a campaign every time the Grants Commission went to Tasmania. He was always able to blame the Commission for every State fault that there was. If Tasmania was not getting enough money for hospitals, education, forests or anything else, it was pointed out that this dreadful Commonwealth Grants Commission was dictating to the State as to how it should raise the money for its Budget. The Grants Commission would be held responsible were there a subsequent rise in any form of State taxation. He was responsible on a number of occasions for forcing the Grants Commission to leave the State and to make deliberations outside it. So since 1974-75 that precise technique of calculation which enabled that kind of false charge to be made has been abandoned by the Commission. It now has a method of calculation which looks at the assessed taxation and the assessed expenditure and subtracts from that the assistance which the Commonwealth gives by way of the Commonwealth 's support for the State's activities. From that the amount of the Grants Commission recommendation is calculated. 
One interesting thing about this year is that the advance grant, that is the grant which applies to the current year, is the smallest one that has ever been provided. One might be moved to the proposition: Is Queensland likely therefore to remain a claimant State before the Grants Commission? For most of the 1970s Queensland has been the only State; it is certainly now the only State. I thought some time ago that Queensland may be coming to the end of the days when it is a claimant State before the Commission. Two parts of the report might give rise to that kind of worry. I refer to the parts of the report which deal with the revenue on railways. It is well known that in Queensland a number of special railway systems have developed. They have developed in relation to the mines. The capacity of those railway systems for raising revenue has never quite entered into the calculation. Here I am talking about the great exporting coalmines of Australia. I refer to page 36 of the Grants Commission report. It states: 
The Commission therefore intends to review its procedures in this regard for 1978-79, and it proposes to treat some of these profits as accruing from greater capacity for railway revenue in Queensland rather than from greater mining revenue-raising effort. 
In that there is a slight warning. There is a slight warning that the railway system upon which the revenue was able to be raised and which becomes part of the State revenue to be used for public purposes is going to be judged to have a greater capacity than it has now. That could give rise to a negative grant. The second interesting point is that the method of calculation with respect to land revenue is to be altered and capacity which may be forgone because there has been a different land tenure system in that State compared with the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria could be put aside. That could have some interesting results too. 
This is the forty-sixth report of the Grants Commission. It is a body which has continued since 1 933. It was set up by a Tasmanian Prime Minister, Prime Minister Lyons. It has continued on. The very worthwhile part of this body is that its reports and its deliberations have never been contested. They have always been accepted. So, given the definition of federalism that is applied here and the definition of equality and equity which is the unstated assumption of the Grants Commission's calculations, all States which have appeared before that body have received fair and just treatment and are not able to pursue false campaigns in relation to their own revenues. 
I want to go beyond the Commission and look at some of the matters which it has referred to in past years. In a word, the Grants Commission- I fear that the honourable member for Griffith may not have quite referred to this in the way he would have preferred- accepts the market which exists in Australia concerning resources, the distribution of those resources and the capacity to raise revenue and to develop standards of living from those resources. It does not question the market in Australia. That is accepted. For a State such as Queensland and a State such as Western Australia, which was a claimant State before the Commission for many years, there are three parts of that market that could be considered and ought to be considered in the future. Those three parts affect living standards and cannot be ignored. 
One of them is known as the centralisation of private enterprise. It is going on apace and nobody can ignore it. It is having absolutely enormous consequences. The second part of the market which is unmeasured is the distribution effects of tariffs and quotas. The Grants Commission referred to this in a report in 1937 as being very difficult to measure. When people say that a free market operates in Australia one has to remember- I do not intend to embarrass the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  who is sitting at the table- that through that means, for example, there is a subsidy equivalent given to each person in Victoria of about $550 per person per year. In Queensland and Western Australia, both old claimant States before the Grants Commission, that subsidy equivalent comes to something between $215 and $250 per person per year. So it is not a free market operating in Australia. It is a very subsidised market in various parts of the country. South Australia has a larger amount of subsidy equivalent per person. So the capital market so far as it is built upon that kind of net subsidy does indeed receive a disproportionate boost in various parts of the country. 
The third point- I just mention this in passing- is the monetary system. So long as the Reserve Bank of Australia pays little heed  to  the States' specific monetary obligations, the monetary system has to operate against any State that does not have within its boundaries any policymaking or decision-making bank or financial institution. That applies to my State, par excellence, in Australia. It is more a branch office 
State in that respect than any other part of Australia. 
-Tasmania does very well indeed. It conned the Commonwealth Government, a friendly Commonwealth Government at the time, to buy its railway system. It has meant a net subsidy to the State of tens of millions of dollars per year as it is for South Australia. I return to this point concerning the centralisation of private enterprise. It worries me because ultimately if we are going to look at equity or equality between the States this is one way in which it is not being observed in Australia. This is not to criticise any Government. I merely make two points to illustrate what I am saying. It is well known in Australia that over the last decade or so the most quickly developing States in the Commonwealth have been the outlying States. Nobody disputes that. The two States are Western Australia and Queensland. We see it in terms of the numbers of seats in this place which are attributable to both States. They continue to develop more quickly than the rest of Australia. It may be like the west coast of the United States compared with the east coast of the United States in the late nineteenth century and for a lot of the twentieth century. But a disparity has developed because the quicker rate of development is not being reflected in the household income from all sources available per person in those States. I am very troubled about this. For example, Queensland, for the last 10 years, has been the quickest or second quickest developing State in Australia. Yet the household income available per person has either been the lowest or the second lowest in Australia. There is obviously a disparity in the market system if that situation occurs. I say that it is overwhelmingly due to the fact that there are no head offices in that State. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a list of the head offices of companies in Australia looking for takeovers. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197911061_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Of 22 companies in Australia which are reputed in the financial markets to be looking for takeovers, all of them are in New South Wales and Victoria. Not one is outside those two States. So unless there are head offices in a State that cluster of abilities and of skills that is appropriate to head offices will not occur, especially in these days when there is a far greater amount of capital employed per worker; there is a far greater proportion of people employed in head offices and in administration than there is at the mine face or on the factory floor or at the precise area where the production occurs. It is just a simple fact of life. Unless head offices are obtained, no matter what wealth is produced in particular States of Australia, it will not reflect itself in opportunities for people desiring work. I give one example. People who graduate from universities might graduate as economists. Economists are employed either in teaching, public enterprise or in private enterprise. Very few people who graduate with those skills from any university in Queensland will find employment in private enterprise. They all have to leave. That is an example par excellence. Unless something is done to make Australians aware of the centralising effect of private enterprise and the way in which computers have been utilised to misuse the location of head offices, the outlying States will continue to find it enormously difficult. So skills, people and employment opportunities go with the nature of the officers who want to employ those people. I believe that this matter ought to concern the Government. 
I refer to a splendid article which appeared in the  Financial Times  of 30 October this year. The article was about the results of a 10-year study by some people belonging to the International Institute for Management Administration in Berlin. It involved six countries, including some Common Market countries. The countries were the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, Sweden, the Netherlands and the United States. The Institute examined the merger programs that had occurred over 10 years. There had been 750-odd mergers and these involved 3,000 companies. On looking at the reasons for these mergers, this study makes it quite clear that there was no perceptible increase in efficiency as a result of the mergers and that only for a short time was there a perceptible increase in profitability. In fact, it dropped back very quickly. There were no perceptible effects from those mergers in terms of prices being lower than they would otherwise have been. What is known as the large scale operation principle for having a merger did not apply in most cases. The researchers concluded a very splendid study by saying: 
. these latter-day mergers often seem akin to empire building with no demonstrable social benefit to compensate for the inherent reduction in competition. 
Clearly this is occurring in Australia. If we are on a merger binge, as Gottliebsen pointed out the  Australian Financial Review  yesterday, the most vulnerable parts of Australia are the outlying States. The cluster of skills and opportunities that accompanies officers able to make policy decisions will be increasingly lost to children leaving schools and wanting to obtain jobs in the outlying States. That is happening now. I hope that the Commonwealth Government, the State governments and a number of public authorities are aware of the fact that mergers also involve social obligations. I have been able to get the Myers Committee on Technology to take an interest in the matter of the centralisation of private enterprise. I believe that it is one of the enormous problems in Australia. If we are to construct a federal system with some semblance of equality of opportunity for people in various parts of the country, the matter of what is happening in private enterprise cannot be ignored. 
I am not a person who says merely that the market is free and that it is free to the detriment of everything else. Adam Smith never meant that. There always have to be social obligations. As soon as anybody talks about social justice, equality, fair shares or a return for work commensurate with what others get for a return for work he is talking about some intervention in the market system. The position that we on this side of the House take is that any intervention has to be as low as possible and taken as a last resort, not taken as the first resort or the first response to any situation.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I can see that you have followed this argument. I know that you follow these things with a great deal of interest. The work of the Commonwealth Grants Commission has been enormously useful for Australia. It is a product of the federal system in this country that has not been emulated anywhere else in the world. That needs to be realised and appreciated. I am delighted to support this Bill. I am delighted to support the deliberations and the calculations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. As long as it continues, this country will benefit. But I would request that wider interest be taken in the matter of the centralising effects of private enterprise. 
Queensland industrial affairs have always had a unique attraction for the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I am not going to join him with respect to those matters. Brisbane airport has a unique attraction for me. I want to say a few words about it because of a quite mischievous and incorrect article which appears on pages 45 and 46 of this week's  Bulletin.  The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  made the article available to me. It is replete with errors which should be corrected. It would be a tragedy were Australia's airline policy and airport development policy to be decided by an oligopolistic duopoly. It is quite clear that that is what Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia intend to do with respect to the development of Brisbane airport. Let me deal with one particular point which is made in the article. It states that clearly from evidence TAA and Ansett do not like the proposal for the development of Brisbane airport because the estimated increase in passenger through-put has been overstated by the Department of Transport. That is nonsense. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  would realise that it is nonsense because he heard the evidence last week. TAA and Ansett say that they are opposed to the development of the airport at this time, even though it is firm government policy, because they say that the through-put in the year 2000 is likely to be something over six million passengers instead of the nine million passengers that the Department of Transport estimates. The interesting point is that TAA and Ansett have never made 20-year forecasts before. If one were to look back to any occasion when they made a 20-year forecast- for example, from 1950s to the 1970s- one would find that they have consistently understated the increase to the extent of 60 per cent to 100 per cent. They both state that they always rely upon the Department of Transport estimates of what passenger throughput is likely to be. They grasped on this occasion because I believe that they do not want the development of Brisbane Airport for their own reasons. The reasons are quite clear. The airlines would prefer international passengers arriving in Australia to land at airports in Sydney and Melbourne and to be transported to the north by the two domestic carriers. They, of course, have a monopoly of the air travel facilities available to domestic travellers in Australia. That is a scandalous position. Australian citizens should realise that our airport development policy ought not to be in the hands of either TAA or Ansett. 
Let me make one other point in the few minutes that are available to me. It is quite fascinating that over the last 18 years from 1960 to 1978 the rate of growth of through-put at Brisbane airport has been in excess of that which applied to either Melbourne or Sydney airports. Yet TAA and Ansett persist in their attitude. TAA and Ansett fell over themselves in promoting the development of Tullamarine airport, even though in the three years before they agreed to that development there had been actual negative growth at that airport. Their sense of justice is to differ in the kind of judgment they would make in respect of Brisbane airport compared with that which they made in respect of Tullamarine airport. At the hearings for the development of Tullamarine airport they were persuaded to contribute 10 paragraphs of induced comment. Yet in respect of Brisbane airport they went in hard and for their own reasons, which are full of bias and which relate to their having better traffic by transporting people from the south. They decided to oppose the airport development. I am very much emboldened and supported by the fact that we know it is firm government policy to develop Brisbane airport. I believe that TAA and Ansett realise that also. One other point ought to be made. It is quite clear that over the 20 years between the late 1950s and the late 1970s the growth of traffic at Brisbane has been in excess of the growth of traffic at all other capital city airports in Australia except Perth airport. Perth is the exception. Yet the airlines want to raise barriers to the development of Brisbane airport greater than those which they have raised in respect of the development of any other capital city airport in 
Australia. I suggest to. the House that that is a clear reason why two airlines which have a monopoly of the domestic air traffic in Australia must not be allowed to dominate what is a very important source of traffic growth and development that ought to apply around the capital cities of this country. 
-I refer the Treasurer to the prestigious 10-year study of company mergers in four European countries, the United Kingdom and the United States of America reported in the international financial Press this week. Is the Treasurer aware that that study indicated that in general the mergers had not resulted from an attempt to achieve economies of scale and had little effect on long term profitability, lower prices and efficiency but had been induced principally by the desire for aggressive business leverage, and that the mergers have had enormous social consequences? As it is reported that there are 22 companies centred in Melbourne and Sydney actively seeking takeovers, will the Treasurer monitor the social, employment and centralised decision-making consequences of the present Australian trend, explain its effects on those supporting private enterprise, especially in the vulnerable outlying States, and make those consequences known to those who support business and private enterprise in Australia generally? 
-The Bills which are. before the Parliament are the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill 1979 and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. I listened to the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  with a growing sense of interest during the 25 minutes that he spoke. He worked on the principle that if one makes a plank long enough one can connect the title of these Bills to any conceivable issue to which one wants to connect it. He did that during the last five minutes that he spoke. I thought that he promoted more general propositions than one could find in the local branch of the debating society. Perhaps I could just bring the debate back for a few moments to the precise substance of the Bills, and the principles involved in the Bills. I shall mention the amendments is passing. 
The Commonwealth interest in education began in the post- World War II era but, more precisely, it began in the late 1950s. That interest caused a situation to develop so that in the early 1960s the arguments on the Commonwealth's interest in education were: If only this country could spend 3 per cent or 4 per cent of the gross domestic product on education everything would be okay. I can recollect the statements put out by National Union of Australian University Students- a body now defunct- talking about the days when 3 per cent or more of the gross domestic product would be spent on education and everything would be all right, that we would have arrived where we ought to have arrived. That was during the period 1962-63. We were given that task and had to perform it by the late 1 960s. The task was performed years before the set date. But the education program in which the Commonwealth was interested began most appropriately in the late 1950s. 
It will take three or four specific instances to indicate what actually happened. I will detail three of those instances. The Murray Commission report of 1957- presaged the Commonwealth's interest and concern in terms of university education. The 1963-64 era projected the Commonwealth into an interest in terms of secondary education, in other words, education below the tertiary level. On that occasion the interest developed in terms of scholarships for students to go to later years of secondary school. It began the interest of the Commonwealth in terms of the non-government school system. It might be said that the third area of interest developed with the Schools Commission in the middle 1970s under the Labor Government. They are all dependent upon a principle. The principle that pervaded all the thought of those days and until recent years was a very simple one. It was simply that money spent on education was always well spent. 
It stated the simple point that if you only had money spent on education, it became the great engine of" economic growth. That principle owed a great deal to people such as Kuznets and others in the United States of America who developed all kinds of clever equations and analyses. But the principle has not quite worked out that way, although it is important. The reasoning was simply that dollars spent on education meant growth and that the dollars spent on education meant prosperity- whatever prosperity meantand that the dollars spent on education meant happiness. There are a number of events that intervene in the development of any of those equations. Australia now knows that education is a far more complex situation than would have been thought in the 1950s. It is not quite so simple. 
-I am not even suggesting that. I make the point that what is important is to look at the most effective expenditure of money in education and to look at it in terms of its program effectiveness. What is it supposed to deliver? That brings us to consider the needs principle in education. Karmel developed an interest in terms of the needs principle for education. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  who has an interest in this area, would be unfair to try to purloin for himself or his own Party any overwhelming concern or a concern to the exclusion of others in respect of genuine needs in education. 
-No, it certainly was not. We may have been partners in the process. In this whole process the rights of the community, the rights of parents, the rights of family and the places of students and children when they grow up all have to be considered. It is a far cry from the day when it was said that little needed to be spent on education. It is a far cry from the day when it was said to students: 'You can make your own way. If you make your own way you will do very well'. That is the old Dickensian philosophy of 'One for all and all for one', said by the elephant as he danced among the chickens. To prevent that dance from occuring it was decided that money spent on education ought to be so spent and ought to have a role in developing fair shares and a sense of justice in society. 
In the minutes that are available to me tonight- there are not a lot available- I want to say one or two things concerning a particular sector of the school system. I want to say one or two words in respect of the most needy sector in general, and that is the overwhelming majority of non-government schools. They are in dire need. To make that point clear I refer to one or two points in the last Schools Commission report. On page 3 it states: 
The net effect - 
That is of the present system-  is that students in a high proportion of non-government schools still have less spent on their education than those in government schools. 
On average the Catholic schools, which are overwhelmingly Class 6 schools, operate at the level of 70 per cent to 72 per cent of the resource standard of the average government school in Australia. A great deal of blame needs to be delivered for what I observed to be happening. I go to many schools. The lowest resource standard schools that I go to are the non-government schools. I am not talking about Geelong Grammer, the King's School and so on, I am talking of local schools. A lot are Catholic, but they are not overwhelmingly Catholic. 
I would like to leave this point with the House tonight: The Commonwealth Government has bent over backwards to help that system of schools. If there is a difficulty, many of the State governments in this country are very guilty. This Government is not guilty; the State governments bear an enormous proportion of the blame. They are quite scandalous in what they have not been doing over recent years. I do not want to be political. If one looks at a schools system at either the primary or the secondary level, one has to consider two areas of responsibility. The Commonwealth Government has an area of responsibility but it is a minor area. It is one that has developed over recent years only since 1962 or 1963. One might say that more precisely it has developed since 1956 but, in straight transfer money terms, since 1963. State governments have had that responsibility since Federation and they have been severely lacking. They deserve the severest censure of this House. When I look at the honourable member for Maribyrnong I immediately exempt and except his own State. Victoria does not share in that blame, neither does Western Australia; but the other States do. As an analysis of the figures will make it clear the ones that share overwhemingly in that blame for not transferring resources where they have a right to be transferred are New South Wales and Tasmania. They have been mean, parsimonious, stingy and quite unjust in their consideration of what in general terms is the largest sector of the Australian education system in need below tertiary education. I read a comment from the Schools Commission report. It makes it quite clear that over the last few years there has been no relative improvement in physical or material standards, in spite of the transfers of resources the Commonwealth has been making. This country should be aware of that proposition and consider it. 
I know that in the House tonight there are some people who are very interested in education. Earlier today the  Speaker  mentioned that there was a long time member of this Parliament in the gallery. I am delighted to know that the  Chairman  of the Education Committee of the Institute of Public Affairs,  Mr Roger  Dean- the former honourable member for Robertson- is listening. I know that he would be glowing with excitement and interest in this debate on education. That is the best commercial that I have done for years. I would like to give some figures. I do not want to mention politics in these matters. Have I mentioned that New South Wales and Tasmania have Labor governments? I do not want to mention that. 
The honourable member for Grayndler has forced me to mention it, and I do it most reluctantly. 
Order! The honourable member for Grayndler will remain silent. 
-Before the Schools Commission report comes out each year the Commonwealth indicates its transfer of funds to education. Below the tertiary level the Commonwealth gives more per pupil in the nongovernment schools sector than it does for the government schools. Whenever that happens we all cop a blast from teachers' federations and others. 
That is not correct, and the honourable member knows it is not correct. 
-1 hear an interjection from the honourable member for Parramatta, who is otherwise a most sensible man. I could indicate what the New South Wales Government does, if honourable members want me to. New South Wales, the richest State in Australia, on its own proposition, gives $16.40 to each child in a non-government primary school for every $100 it gives to each child at a government school. That State vies with Tasmania for making the meanest allocation of resources in the country. We cannot avoid that proposition by talking about the rich and the poor, the educated and the non-educated and the needy and those who are not needy. It is a simple fact. The 20 per cent odd of children who attend non-government schools in Australia cannot get a fair deal unless the States join with the Commonwealth in acknowledging some responsibility. They are not acknowledging that responsibility. 
The argument I was going to put before I was interrupted was simply this: Each year the Commonwealth makes a recommendation for the allocation of funds. As a result of that recommendation it is very wrongly and unjustly accused that it allocates somewhat more per child attending a non-government school than it allocates per child attending a government school. Every member of this House knows that is the minority of funds which goes to support children in education. Why does the Commonwealth do it? The Commonwealth does it to make up for the meanness and parsimony of those who are principally obliged and concerned in terms of education. Let me read out the contributions by the States per child attending a non-government secondary school compared with a child attending a government secondary school. The allocation is of the order of 20 per cent. In the State which makes the lowest allocation in Australia, Tasmania, the allocation is $16.30 per child in one category compared with $100 in the other. In New South Wales the allocation is $17.50 for a child in one category compared with $100 for a child in the other category. Those figures do not take into account capital expenditure in relation to which the States have undertaken no obligation at all. During recent years the States between them have allocated an average of $6m a year for that purpose. An amount of $6m has been allocated for the whole of Australia. 
The Commonwealth has to come in; it has to pick up the threads. It has to try to help people who have been cast aside by the States. I do not exempt all States in this respect. There is no point in trying to play politics with respect to these matters. In terms of Kuznets' original proposition, if one makes the point that money spent on education is worthwhile and helps a country to grow, and if Australia has expended far more real and proportional resources on education in recent years than it has in past years, the question is: How much are we going to allocate to those areas most in need? It is a responsibility that under a federal system rests upon all governments. I have been watching some of the cases before the High Court in respect of the Commonwealth's interest in education and I have looked at the challenge to section 116 of the Constitution, which challenge I say is dripping with venom and bitterness. But the intent of the challenge is interesting. The ultimate intent of the challenge, as has been made clear in propaganda which has been sent to members of Parliament in recent days, has been to say: 'Let the Commonwealth get out of education. Return that responsibility to the States'. In other words, the intent is to return that vulnerable sector of education to the States that have shown little interest in it in any case. 
Those people who are mounting this challenge have one clear aim. The one clear aim is to destroy the poorer section of the non-government schools in Australia, because the poorer section depends upon public expenditure in order to survive. This year it is more dependent upon public expenditure in order to survive than it was 10 or 20 years ago. That is merely a function of the public expenditure processes that are occurring in any country. Once upon a time we could spend our private resources on education. These days governments spend a far greater proportion of their resources. If we are to have a sense of justice, a sense of fair distribution, we must look at the distribution of public expenditure. 
I make the following points, which deserve to be made: I request that when the Commonwealth Government makes its funds available for non-government schools and those schools send their accounts out to parents- whether it is Blackheath College or Cunumulla Convent or whatever it happens to be- there be an obligation on those schools to make clear what is the Commonwealth's contribution per child and what is the State's contribution per child so that at least the community will begin to understand. That kind of argument would have less effect in Victoria and Western Australia than in the other States, for the reasons that I have stated, namely, that they have been fairer and more honest. We should then ask of the States what they are going to do in terms of co-operation in order to share in the task. It is a simple question of mathematics. If we are going to spend $800 less, by way of public expenditure and capital expenditure, on a child in one sort of school compared with another sort, we want to know how much of that $800 can be made up by families- and by poor families with numbers of children. How much is to be made up? There is no point in the States saying that they have States rights and then trying to absolve themselves from this responsibility. 
The Bills before this House are important Bills. We have discussed them before. This kind of debate has not occurred in this House for a number of years. The arguments need to be stated again, because in spite of the Karmel Committee report and all of the other reports dripping with concern about some of the non-government sector schools, there has been no relative improvement during the 1970s in their physical standards compared with the standards in most schools in Australia. As long as that situation remains we ought to sheet home the blame. The blame for that situation does not lie in this place. 
I am pleased that the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts is pleased. These are the circumstances that move me to make a very short contribution tonight. Quite clearly I am the first member speaking tonight who is not a member of the Public Accounts Committee. The proposed Act will make clear where the authority of the Public Accounts Committee lies. It can then, at least with confidence, do those things which it has done over quite a number of years. Of the committees concerned with expenditure and finance the Public Accounts Committee has the longest history in the Australian parliamentary system. It is a history going back to the years before World War II and, more precisely, with a far greater deal of activity in the years subsequent to World War II. One thing has to be said. In the development of any committee of this House, or of the Senate, one has to remember that the committees are not Parliament. The committees are a creature of Parliament and they ought always to retain that position. This simply means that there will always be tension as to what committees can do, how far they can go, and the extent to which they can set themselves up as an alternative source of advice or recommendation to either the Executive or the Parliament. 
Over a number of years the Public Accounts Committee has been aware of the extent to which it is able to go in its deliberations and what it ought to do. Earlier this evening I listened to the contribution of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  to the debate. I am aware that he has been a member of the Public Accounts Committee for two or more years. In respect to his work on the Committee he was fairly brimful with enthusiasm. I want to make the point that it would not be wise to exclude - 
The honourable member says that he is also brimful with enthusiasm. Looking at him I would say that he is brimful with excitement and enthusiasm. I am delighted to know that that is the kind of ethos that invades all the members of the Public Accounts Committee. One sees the very valuable work that they have done and do for the Parliament and for Australia. Speaking quite seriously for a moment, I point out that it is very important to have committees of scrutiny of expenditure operating successfully in the Parliament. After all, since World War II the characteristic of all nationsboth democratic and undemocratic nations- has been that public expenditures have come to operate an increasing proportion of the expenditures, the revenues and the flows of finance within any community. There are a variety of reasons for this. Some people put it down to the obligations governments undertook with respect to full employment. Others have attributed it to the monetary obligations undertaken by reserve and central banks. Yet others have put it down to the expectations of the communities with respect to governments. 
Whatever the understanding happens to be the facts are that public expenditures and revenues occupy a far greater proportion of gross domestic product than they did 30-odd years ago. It has been almost a cyclical process. Sometimes it takes off wildly and has to be pulled back. But because this is not a political debate I will not follow that thought through to its logical conclusion. So far as committees of expenditure are concerned it means that they are very important, not only for the Parliament, but also for the confidence which the community needs to have in the parliamentary process. For a few moments I wish to go over the processes that are involved in public expenditure. These processes are important as it is within them that we can see where the Public Accounts Committee and other committees fit. 
The public expenditure process can be divided into three processes. Firstly, the formulation of public expenditure programs; secondly, the implementation of those programs; and, thirdly, the review of those programs by the Parliament itself. The Parliament plays a role only in the last of those three processes, the review of those programs. It plays no role in the implementation of those programs and it plays a very small role in the formulation of those programs. It can play a slight role in the formulation of the Budget. Sometimes that process can be quite indirect. But quite overwhelmingly it is in the third of those processes, in terms of the review process of expenditure committees- I use that term generically- that the Public Accounts Committee plays quite an overwhelming role. Its role has been developed. It is a complete role in terms of compliance. If there is any doubt that it was complete, that doubt should be removed by tonight's proposed legislation. It has played a role in terms of efficiency. Traditionally, it has had a significantly lesser role in terms of effectiveness. In terms of the review of policies and priorities we get into difficult areas in which other committees also will be involved. 
If I may just develop one short commercial here, I would think that the Standing Committee on Expenditure of this Parliament, if it carved out a role for itself, it would be in terms of the program effectiveness of public expenditure processes. Of course, we are not able to delimit these precisely. It is impossible to do so. If we are going to look at program effectiveness we will also have to look at effectiveness itself and we will have to branch over into the work of efficiency to a significantly lesser extent. For example, the Public Expenditure Committee is not involved in the work of compliance. This illustrates a point: If there are three committees concerned with the expenditure process in the Parliament- and by the Parliament, I mean the Senate also- we have to work out the roles that are appropriate to each so that those roles can complement one another and in complementing one another give people in the electorate the appropriate reassurances concerning public expenditure that they deserve. I congratulate the Public Accounts Committee. The speeches that have been delivered tonight by the members of the Committee indicate that they are delighted with what has happened. I think that the country ought to be pleased also. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I want to say a few pleasant things for a few minutes. I support completely what the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  had to say. What he said is correct. He should be assured that at least two and a half million people in Australia applaud every sentence of his statement. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works is a very important committee. It has a very distinguished  chairman.  But of course the Parliament is still the Parliament and committees do not run the country. Parliament is responsible for legislation and for the economic management of the country. I know that all sensible members here support what the Minister said. Let me go over the history of this project. I am incited to do this because of what has been said by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  Brisbane airport has been a makeshift one since World War II. It was developed by the Americans when Brisbane was a garrison town in World War II. The airport has always been inadequate, poorly planned and in an inappropriate place. 
There are those of us here who have fought for many years- well over a decade- for this event to take place. It is appropriate that at the end of the parliamentary year in 1979 the highlight is represented by the Minister's statement. I now come to the politics of the matter. A question worth asking- I hope that everybody asks this question- is: Were this Government not on these benches, would this airport project be going ahead? I have been provoked to say that it would not be going ahead. I produce at least two imporant pieces of evidence. Every person who gets a job in constructing this airport- there will be 6,000 man years involved in its constructionought to remember that were this Government not in office, the project would not be going ahead. The McMahon Government at the end of 1971 and the beginning of 1972 stated quite clearly what were the plans for the construction of the airport. There was a program of expenditure for 1973, 1974 and 1975. That decision was predicted. In 1973 the Whitlam Governmentthrough the agency of the Coombs report- said:  No airport. Put it off. It 's not a goer. Don 't do it '. When the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in the election campaign in 1977, indicated that the airport project would get under way, very sadly the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition- I have not quoted this in the House before- on behalf of the Opposition said: 
We are not going to pull any Brisbane airport out of a Pandora 's box'. Everybody should know that the Opposition, when in Government, said no. Were the Opposition in government, the project would not be in the process of authorisation of this expenditure today. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  knows that I have not said this kind of thing before, but I have been provoked to say this by words that were uttered earlier in the debate. 
I have two minutes left in which to deal with one or two points. The Committee's proposal for the development of the airport by adding to the present runway, doing something to the terminals and so on, then proceeding to build a new airport half a dozen years later, would have two effects. Honourable members know that if they postpone something for half a dozen years, it will not be done. That is not in the mind of the Committee. But it is a more expensive proposition to put more money into the present site and then half a dozen years later to build the new airport. That involves an expenditure of an extra $2 5 m. More precisely, because of the immediate terminal propositions and because of those effects on air fares, it would not have been an acceptable proposition to increase air fares in six years time; it was an acceptable proposition to increase air fares today when the first brick was put on the new site, as would have to be done by Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines and so on. That builds immediately into the cost structure. The Committee's proposal was uneconomic. It has another fault. It relies upon estimates of the throughput of traffic at Brisbane Airport. The Committee never made a judgment about this. I am not scarifying it as I have too much respect for the Committee and its chairman, but I believe that the result was influenced too much by the inadequate and grubby evidence submitted by Australia's domestic airlines. They have a vested interest in under estimating the throughput of passengers. They were attempting to project matters 20 years ahead and they have never done that successfully before. That should not have occurred. I support the Minister's statement. I have made the political position perfectly clear for the first time in this House. It had to be made perfectly clear. The project will be a capital works program of enormous economic benefit and it will help the whole northern part of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) When will the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 be proclaimed? 
Has the Attorney-General received proposals for significant and numerous exclusions from the Act? 
Which Departments have suggested their own exclusion? 
Will the Attorney-General consider proclaiming the  Act to cover as large a section of Public Service administration as possible and to minimise the classes of decisions declared by regulation to be not subject to judicial review under the Act? 
